ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57744	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the session. We will discuss: - Proposal for a Pension Insurance Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 509; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57745	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. In order to facilitate the explanation of the law itself, you will have slides which I hope will be instructive to go through what was happening in the pension system, in a system that provides pensions, in a system that ensures social security. These amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, i.e. the new Pension Insurance Act, is a law that has sublimed everything that has been going on these years and a law that sets paths for us where the pension system should be developed. But before we refer to the law itself, I would refer to what is happening at this point in Croatia, which is that Croatia is following Europe in that part that is related to ageing and we in Croatia have what is happening in Europe, so Europe is about 25 people aged 65 years to 100 people, so the ratio is 1:4 until 2060. will be 53 people aged 65+ to 100 persons aged 15 to 64, so ratio 1:1.9. Europe old, old and Croatia. And what is also a feature of Croatia is that we have a relatively old population the average age of Croatian citizens is 41 years. The amendments to this law need to be seen, so changes to the system itself should also be seen for the purpose of ensuring what awaits us in the future. We definitely have an unfavourable demographic picture, so in 1953, only 7% of the population was over 65 years old. According to the 2011 census, 17.7% and 2051. we'll have 28.2%. When we look at the demographic picture in 1950, 4 million people lived in Croatia, in 2050 there will also be 4 million people in Croatia, but the problem is in the distribution itself, in the demographic picture because in 1950 we had over 30% of our fellow citizens between, in younger age groups, so between 15 and 30 years until in 2050 we will have over 30%, so about 30% of those who will be over 65 years old. And which leads to our working contingent being reduced and the population increasing 65 years and older. What does that mean for the labour market? Croatia should have around 2 million employees in order to function as a state and be an advanced state. At this point, employment is about a million and 400 thousand citizens. Which means we're only 52% of the total working population somewhere. To point out that somewhere around 70% of Europe's average is 64%. It is also up to us to open up opportunities to create as many jobs as possible and to reach these 2 million people employed in Croatia because this ensures the stability of the pension system. Of course it would be most ideal for the ratio to be 1:1:2 so that two, two, and one is retired. That would take over 2.5 million people. And probably at this point, the figure of about 2 million is a reality that needs to be achieved. But since we have this goal ahead of us then we need to look at what is going to happen in the labour market. More than 370,000 jobs will be opened in the labour market there in 2040 and 2050, and we will need 370,000 new workers in Croatia if we do not make a move and in the longer working relationship, a longer retirement period, so by extending the retirement age, if we do not take those steps, we will need 370,000 new workers in Croatia. At the moment when we have so many unemployed, it seems utopia. However, Croatia must move forward, Croatia will grow, Croatia will invest, jobs will be opened, and we will come to this problem very quickly that we will not have the workforce, so we will not have a worker in Croatia who will be able to fill those jobs. Therefore, the aim of this law and all other laws that we are making to increase employment is because increasing employment is something that is the goal of each government, and clearly by increasing employment, the number of unemployed falls. But in order to increase the employment rate given the non-negative demographic picture, the share of employment in the population should also be increased from 15 to 64 years. As it was moving, so in this group from 25 to 54 years from 2003 to 2012, we have an almost stable line, so 80% of this working-age population is employed, which is somewhere at Europe's level. In the 55-59 age group, this employment rate is 54%, while in the 60-64 age group the employment rate is extremely low. And in this area, it should be done in the following years, not in the next 5 years, but in the next 10 and 20 years to work on staying in the work process as long as possible, clearly for those branches for which it is possible and for those branches that are not labour intensive, and for these branches, another way of staying in a working relationship should be foreseen, not necessarily in that workplace where people have started working. Why it is important to ensure that the longer employment in Croatia is and this picture shows us what will happen to us in 2051 where the simple pyramid will be reversed and we will have more and more of our citizens who will be older and very little or less of those who are in the working population. In view of the pension system... the social system is needed to ensure in Croatia the conditions for opening jobs, but that these jobs are filled. When we talk about the European objectives of pension systems, it must have three objectives: adequateness, sustainability and modernisation, and when we talk about adequateness, the pension system needs to ensure solidarity and justice between and within generations, pensions should be adequate to allow life to a reasonable extent, the retention of living standards and after retirement. When talking about sustainability, ensuring sound public finances, encouraging longer working life and active ageing, adequate relations between the level of contribution and the level of pensions, and increasing the security of capitalised and private pension insurance. Modernisation, the pension system should be transparent, tailored to demographic ageing and structural changes in the labour market and society. These three objectives have also been translated into this Retirement Insurance Bill, to make it adequate, to be sustainable and modern, to follow the trends that are happening in society. In addition to these objectives, what we need to ensure and establish in Croatia a socio-economic sustainable pension system in the medium and long term. To point out that in Europe when we talk about the pension system, the pension system in the European Union countries is now starting to change extensively because it is clear to everyone that this way with the ageing of Europe, with the ageing population, it will hardly be possible to maintain the pension system for the next 50 years. But let me just point out that the alarm rang in the countries where 1:2 gave 1 pensioner 2 workers. We are far below that, at this moment in Croatia on one pensioner comes 1.19. In some counties we have the opposite, that we have more pensioners than workers. Therefore, the alarm has long been ringing for us, but in the past 8 years or 10 years since the establishment of a three-stage pension system, we have not made the shifts that we should have made to keep the system socially and economically sustainable. The reform began in 1999, so a long time ago, 14 years ago, so that something that we should have had arranged at this point, and certainly since we have not made the changes that this reform was making in those years, we have not received the successes that this reform had predicted. Then the age of retirement and early retirement increased, a new pension formula was introduced, an extended accounting period from the 10 most favourable years gradually to the whole working life and a larger and permanent reduction to 20% of early retirement was introduced, so pensionization was introduced. A new way of harmonising pensions according to salaries and consumer prices at 50:50 is introduced, the definition of disability is strengthened, the compensation for physical damage can only be achieved because of professional causes. The pension system was then kicked out of rights that had nothing to do with pension insurance and social redistribution and solidarity being achieved through the lowest and highest pensions. After 1999, a number of amendments to the Pension Insurance Act and other laws were corrected and the pension system continued to be regulated. Thus, the reduction in early retirement, the increase in pensions to 20% achieved by '98, corrected indifference, a retirement allowance was introduced from 27% for new pensioners, age limits for women up to 2030. The possibility of selecting a pension for insurance companies who have chosen a second pillar voluntarily was introduced and a reduction of pensions achieved under specific regulations was introduced in 2010. For economic reasons, 2010 and 2011 there was no harmonisation of pensions based on rising consumer prices and wages. When we talk about the second and third pillars, it cannot be separated from this Pension Insurance Act, so from the first pillar and it also needs to be said a few things. What's fundamental is that we didn't develop this second and third pension pillar the way we were supposed to develop it according to the reform that was introduced ten years ago, and there was the biggest mistake in not developing the system, but neither did the system go back. Therefore, if the contributions to the second pension pillar were not increased, then the decision should be made on what and how. The worst thing that's happened now is that we stayed on what was at the beginning, and that means that the separation for the second pension column remains at 5%. It was up to you to decide, the courage to decide when the time was right, so when the economy was better. In 2008, 2006, the seventh time there was room to move towards increasing the isolation rate for the second pension column. At that time, we feel no reason or consequences today. As far as the second pension and third pension pillar is concerned, three new laws will come before this esteemed House very soon. Therefore, the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and the Law on Pension Insurance Companies which further regulate the pension scheme itself. When we talk about what happened in the pension system. Until '98. We've had an accelerated deterioration of basic indicators in the pension system. Since '99. By 2007, when the reform started, it was unfortunately not over. Let me just point out that according to this 2010 reform, we should have had 9% of the isolation rate in the second pension column. The global crisis in 2008 and 2013 until today, so for 5 years, 6 years has already led to the fact that pension system parameters further deteriorate especially in relation to pension system dependence, so 1:1.09 and 1:1,21 respectively, depending on how many employees we have. On the conditions of difficult economic and unfavourable demographic movements at this time, this law calls for the development of a pension system, a development that is not development for the next three or five years, but a development that has been tracked over the next 20 to 50 years. Let's look into the past, and then in 1922 we had 137404 pensioners, insurance companies in Croatia. We have no record of how many pensioners there were then. But when you look at the figures then you see that in the end, according to the data we have in the late '80s and early 90s in Croatia, we had almost 2 million employees, and we had about 500,000 pensioners somewhere. So the ratio of 1:4 something that, every minister of finance would be desirable for him to be and not have any problems with the pension system, or with pensions, or with the height of pensions, or with the rights of the pension system. But as you've seen since '88. To this day, we're down the number of workers, we're down the number of employees, but we're growing the number of pensioners. Clearly, the pensioners aren't responsible for it. This is also the consequence of those privatisation laws when people were forced into early retirement in order to easily rob companies, so that companies could be sold as easily as possible because when you don't have workers, then it's very easy to sell both machines and buildings and land. So at this point we have what we have and we can't get away from this and with this premise that we have today in 2013 is the state we have and it's not going to change so quickly and so slowly. So it won't change in a way that now all of a sudden we'll have a much larger number of employees, and the number of pensioners will remain the same. How's that on the graphics? You can see that those two curves of the 1990s were very separate and we're approaching in 2012. What we're aiming at is that in the next 20 years, these curves are completely reopening and that we have again, so to speak, the scissors. So, in one direction go the number of employees, and in the other direction goes the number of pensioners. Because he'll probably be around a million and 200, a million and 300. So we don't expect there'll be more explosions in that area than it's ever been before. The average pension rate in the average salary ranged somewhere between 35, six percent and 40%. So, 2012 is somewhere in the average pension rate of about 39%. We aim at the pension system to make the average salary of the average pension, i.e. the average pension of the average salary, somewhere above or around 40%, and that is something that this pension, pension system proposal and provides. The share of total pension expenditure is moving around around 10% of GDP. And according to our projections, that share will still be around 10% of GDP. And with these changes and the changes we're predicting in the system, the share is about 10%, not going to grow above that. You have the basic indicators on this slide, 1 per 1.21 percent of the average pension in October this year is 40.37%, the average retirement rate in the average salary is 44%, and what we aim at is the average retirement rate achieved at 40 years of employment and 65 years of life is 60.41%. And that's the ideal we should have and we have it, we realize it in our system but the problem is that only 12% of the pensioners in Croatia have these conditions. So they retired from 40 years of employment and at 65 years of age. We have a very large number of property pensions, over 25%. We are champions in Europe, and on the other hand we have a large share of early retirements, which is due to what has been happening to us in the last 20 years. Monthly pension and pension expenses are about 3 billion. What are our objectives of pension reform? Harmonise the pension system with economic and demographic movements, develop different ways of financing pensions through the development of all three pillars of pension insurance, stimulate longer work activity and later retirement, increase the responsibility of individuals for their own social security at age, increase the real value of pensions, protect the social security of pensioners and financially stabilise the pension system in the long term. What's the paper in this law? It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. As we have already announced, we propose an extension of the age limit for retirement and early retirement for two years, from 2031 to 2038. We're introducing a new concept, full-grown retirement, so 65 years of life and 35 years of retirement, along with transitional provisions for women. We allow the use of old age pensions with work, so up to half full-time. As for those of our insurance companies who started working early, we allow them to retire without a pension with 41 years of training, insurance and 60 years of life. And also, for our citizens who do not go to the Department of Employment for the sake of company bankruptcy if we do not provide them with a job within two years, and have the conditions for early retirement will go to that pension without a pension. We are also introducing a new way of assessing and controlling disability pensions. So we're introducing a new system of art. It is by means of new witch witches about what a man can do, and we are not interested in what a man cannot do but can do with the goal of staying as long as possible in a working relationship and receiving a full-age pension instead of a disability pension. We are introducing a system of professional rehabilitation in Croatia. So, what has been neglected for years, and the right to professional rehabilitation will have an insurance on the basis of reduced working capacity with the remaining working ability before 53 years of age. Rehabilitation for work on another job for which the same level of education is sought or higher we want to leave as long as possible for people in employment to remain. A temporary disability pension for insurance companies over 58 years of age who, even after professional rehabilitation, remain unemployed for more than 5 years. And we're introducing a transition from disability to retirement from the age of 65 to the amount found. As far as disability pensions are concerned, we're already going to be audited. Regular checks every 3 years, extraordinary checks. We are introducing a minimum pension system that replaces the concept of the lowest pension and will now be in the same relationship as others. As for children, persons with disabilities who are entitled to a family pension after the death of their parents, regardless of the fact of maintenance during employment, are suspended from their family pension and are re-established after their employment has ceased. So they don't lose that pension permanently. The new law separates pensions made according to a special regulation on pensions made under specific regulations and part of pensions made on the basis of internships and covered by contributions. We allow better coordination of pensions with a rotating formula and as regards the harmonisation of pension pensions made according to specific regulations would be harmonised if real GDP growth in three consecutive quarters was at least 2% and the government budget deficit was less than 3% while labour pensions were automatically aligned. As for pension payments in agreement with the post office, we immediately prevent further discussions on who thought to discuss the payment of pensions in agreement with the post office to continue the payment of pensions by mail to those pensioners who have had that payment through mail even so far while for all new pensioners the payment will go to current accounts. The assessment of the effects of the new Pension Insurance Act, therefore, on this table as regards the increase in expenditure by 2030, so in these first 4 years we have a reduction in expenditure so that expenditures will gradually grow. We estimate by 4 billion 547 million somewhere, but on the other hand we have an increase in income and a better charge, and also because of the better economic situation we will have so that the revenue increase will be around 5.5 billion, which means that the effect of these increases in the system will not lead to imbalances. When we talk about pensions that are most interesting, these changes that we are about to make, pensions from both pillars will be bigger than those of the first pillar, so with all the changes and changes that we have. And on this slide, what we promised, according to our pension projections for the pensioner 65 years of life, 40 years of internships that had average Croatian salary will be about 60% of his salary, and that's what we want and all of what we do and from this ultimate goal. Just for the end of a few words, as far as the Economic and Social Council is concerned, we had a session of the Economic and Social Council and the social partners gave their separate opinions, so they relate to individual institutes, but as regards the general assessment itself, the Economic and Social Council has also supported the draft Pension Insurance Act with the fact that independent Croatian trade unions do not support the draft bill, while other social partners hence other union associations and employers' associations have supported but clearly with their own opinions regarding the internship itself, so as far as self-suspending age is concerned for retirement and mail payments, that I do not read now. If anyone cares about this part, we'll gladly give it to all the councilmen. Thank you very much, I apologize at length, but it was instructive and important that we look at the entire system. The law goes into two readings and I hope we have a good debate and turn to the pension system and suggestions that this system will be even better. What we certainly want is for the system to be socially sensitive to being economically well-founded and for all those who retire there in 2027 to retire to a pension that will give them a decent life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57746	Thank you. We have one set of replicas. Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57747	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Ministers. You mentioned one term to have a sentence that we would have a modern state to employ 2 million people. There's no dispute that as much employment as possible, as little unemployed as possible. We see disproportionateness, now we're short a worker. We know that 400,000 people in some statistics aren't looking for a job at all. But what is the modern state of your concept and what is the modern state in understanding of this government? Is that what you said, forget the formula 3 times 8, 8 hours of work, 8 hours of rest, 8 hours of sleep that was elected in Chicago. You're going back to the looks of the 17th, 18th century, and it would be a modern state, or I might be wrong, so you'll probably explain it to me. Given modern technologies, industrial progress is absolutely certain that workers should work less. You said we needed to create a pension social and economic sustainable system, no one slowed it down. However, what is a social and economic sustainable system? You didn't mention at any point as a social democratic redistribution of wealth. Will we continue to push the principle of work until 67 years of age to a certain time and soon the law on small jobs will come on vouchers and on vouchers? Is this the modern state? You must know that never again profit has been achieved as in times of crisis. This crisis is only a crisis for workers, for no one else. It's not for large-scale capital.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57748	Replication by Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57749	I'm sorry you didn't read my entire statement, but you're pulling it out of context, so it was on one radio and you can listen completely from the beginning to the end. So I didn't say we weren't going to do 8-8-8, it's something that's been chosen a long time ago but that already in certain branches, among other things, in tourism, in construction, in catering during the season, we're doing something different to work 60 hours a week, in six months, and then six months we're doing a lot less. So 3 times 8 is something that is standard and what is elected and which will remain still, but on the other hand, we are already working in certain branches in a different way, clearly with the agreement and with the negotiations. So no one has ever said that we're giving up 3 times 8 so it's something that's been chosen, but it's important to understand that in certain branches work is done differently and that it should be properly paid. No one's saying we should give up on such a state or give up on such a state, but we have technological processes that require us to do so, and then we do so. As far as the modern state itself is concerned, we are a state that must establish modern market relations to facilitate employment, facilitate job creation and thus allow us to have as many employees in Croatia as possible because without 2 million people it will not be possible to maintain a long-term system like this. So I expect everyone in today's discussion to talk about how to maintain this system and what to do to make the system even more stable. Everything we've predicted in this law, we've predicted for that very reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57750	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57751	Your Honor, Madam President. Mr. Minister, you mentioned several times in 2050 that the labour force, in Croatia, will be missing, the children are whether, and that you will open, then 350, 400 thousand jobs will be opened. As an introduction, I think it's crocodile tears over there being no children because half of the government comes to a homosexual parade in Split, you support it, I don't know, it's not, it's not important, it's democracy. But she's your entire government and all the leaders of your worldview say we don't support that marriage is a man and a woman and it's called marriage. It doesn't matter either way, but it is an indicator of your position in relation to this issue of demographic Croatia. It's like an introduction to you. But me, my replica of you goes to that, Mr. Minister, but you have to open up the next two years 350 thousand jobs. I'm a little out of line, but for the next two to five years if Croatia doesn't do it, we're done. We'll be all dead by then, here we are from Split here, sometimes looking for who they are now. We won't have anyone to bury us. And we need to get the Filipinos in because they're similar to the worldview. And it's no problem, Croatia will survive but this generation must get a place under the sun, we must next... Use the period to open 350 thousand jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So is this government even thinking about it or are you just selling us some futuristic, some movies that are going to be 2050. I can open it, there's an ark show, or what I know is what it's called there is a divination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57752	The next replica of Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57753	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate. Here's the need, since I've already heard from my colleagues' bench that the HNS might be against the bill. In fact, I have to inform you ministers we are not against the bill, we will present our views naturally as a club in discussion about this topic and some of our proposals since we have a chance in first reading. Of course, this attitude refers to a referendum issue related to the definition of marriage that should be entered into the Constitution as proposed by the Family Association. And we express our opposition and our political stance in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57754	Okay. Replica wasn't a minister. Col. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57755	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, given that this law is too important and that we avoid political debates about it, I would ask you that, to answer two questions for a simple reason, with the best of will from your opening argument, I have failed to get these answers. The first is what are you planning for a billion kuna of income in the following year? And in two years, two billion kunas. And don't tell me one general theme better charge. Let's let it go. You can't charge for that. The second thing, the finance minister is constantly saying he'll unload the economy. So I'm wondering where you're going to charge the two billion. The other thing is, once we talked about it here, and you promised to deliver to this House how much pension was paid for those people who went under special law. So they paid a part of their lives in retirement but failed to get to the end but stopped in one part. So I'm interested, and I think that's the key question, and that's how much this article costs 155. You're simply in the reasoning of the budget that, in fact, this law had to be put in place. Article 155 of how much the state budget costs for the reason that the income and expenditure difference is almost 17 billion kuna. And one thing clean, Article 157 of the Institute is done through a government budget account, no government budget bill, Mr. Minister has a treasury. Because it's legally defined and then I ask you to change this in article 157 to second reading. But I'm saying, the key thing to avoiding a political debate over this law is these two questions that you simply have to answer. Because there's too much difference between what's being collected, which pays for all pensions according to various rights. And that's why this article 155 is the key thing. And the other thing, actually the third question, is just one sentence please, Madam Vice President, when are you planning and what dynamics to increase this second pillar of retirement?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57756	Replication by Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57757	So when we talk about the revenues of the state budget, then the revenues of the state budget as far as pensions and pension insurance themselves are concerned. 1. We also introduce a unique pattern of income, contributions and everything else that will allow us not to see what happened to us that we have not charged more than 30 billion contributions and taxes in the past 8 years. So it's going to be one better charge mechanism, that's one thing. But what's perfectly safe is when we talk about pension system expenditures, they're about 36 billion at the moment. We collect 19, collect about 19 billion through contributions to pensions that are under the Pension Insurance Act, we need about 24 billion. So there's a deficit of about 5 billion. While we're missing about 12 billion for pensions under special regulations. If you have read the law, then the law provides for another new part to be separated completely from each insurance company through a pension that was earned through that pension that was earned through the special laws. The example is academics, so our academics deserve to retire to their pension payments for over 40 years and then get an add-on because they're at the academy. Therefore this supplement because the academy is connected to the budget, this part is related to the very system of contributions. So we want to completely separate that system. As far as the costs are concerned, this second one, the system according to special regulations, so it costs us about 17 billion, but we want to separate it too so that it knows exactly how many of you or you who are parliamentary advocates as much as we deserve payments where we worked and how much we earned in other payments. So we're going to completely separate the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57758	Thank you very much. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57759	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, we are talking today about the pension system, reform of the same, we are talking about what awaits us in 2039. We have data on what it's going to look like in demographics in 2060. I see it as an escape from the present. She's not very good in your portfolio, just whatever minister you pull doesn't end well, so I'm pretty skeptical about this, too. But let me remind you, this was also discussed in 2010, and when HDZ proposed 67 years, I will remind you of what the Prime Minister of the present and then the president of the SDP today said. He said if someone did that when we came to power, we'd get it back for 65 years. Those were your promises. We're experiencing something else today. And certainly this number of unemployed, 352,000 today, 10,000 more than at the same time last year. In the 5th month, we discussed the Employment Encouragement Act and all these measures resulted in us having the highest number of unemployed in February 2013, 372,000 already at the end of this year. So I ask you, then, are you still behind that opening sentence of yours when you became a minister, when you said that so far many have tried to resolve the issue of unemployment and that it is you who will finally solve it. Does this suggest that you might want to consider some other moves?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57760	Replication response, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57761	We are talking about the pension system today, and clearly we will not avoid the issue of the number of unemployed because it is something that, something to talk about, is something to make moves about. Yeah, we're making moves unlike the previous governments when we've singled out 250 million demanding employment policy measures, we've singled out over half a billion and naturally it doesn't create jobs, but it's led to over 46,000 unemployed being in the system of work. Some of them got a year's work experience and found a job based on it, 61% of them got a job. Therefore, when we talk about the ministry's moves, these moves are moves made during the crisis when there is no job creation, and the right way to reduce the number of unemployed is to create new jobs. Without that, it's not working. And when we said we'd do it, we said we'd open up jobs and hire people. What's absolutely certain is that when our GDP rises by 2% that by then we will have a significant reduction in the number of unemployed. And on the other hand, it's easy to attack, and you could look at what happened at the time of your government, so the number of unemployed doesn't grow just this year, it's been growing since 2008. We didn't send 15,000 people to education, and then we took them off the Employment Service to embellish the number, we never hid the number, this number is seen every day. You were hiding her and every month there was a panic when the number of unemployed would be published. As far as our numbers are concerned, she's public. And speaking of entering the unemployed, look at the structure of entering the unemployed. The entrances... out of inactivity because people realize that active measures bring them something and therefore that's what you need to think about. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57762	Thank you very much, Minister. Comrade Miroslav Tudjman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57763	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, it surprises and worries the ease with which you use the data or present the data. Two or three days ago when it came to amendments and additions to this same law, then you're in that argument, I assume you signed that there were 10 to 15% of people in Europe with..., these disability pensions, and that in Croatia there were 25. After a few days here today we read that there is 15-20% in Europe and 27% in Croatia. It's obviously happened in the last few days. However, what concerns is that, several days ago and today, you have again tied those disabled persons, or those pensions, with disabilities, to privatisation and robbery, without mentioning in any word the Homeland War and the deaths of people and civilians in the Homeland War. Look at the logs, it's standing. So on the one hand, you were talking about privatisation, not conversion, and the biggest problems were created in conversion, not privatisation. And on the other hand you have the data, you say that the ratio of employees and workers and pensioners was 4:1 so that now it came 1:1 almost, and you did not say that at the same time as 4:1 in Germany was 5:1, that it was now in Germany 3:1 and that in 20 years in Germany it would be 2:1. And the demographic factors that you said the Croatian population would be 30, 30 years from now if I'm not wrong about the number times after 65 years. You're talking again then we'll make a difference again like we used to. Give me some of that information to line up so that you can take what you're saying seriously.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57764	Please follow the time so we don't overstep. Replication by Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57765	If you listened well to me when I talked about privatisation I said about early retirement I didn't say anything about disability pensions. The disability pensions are according to special laws, according to the Law on Pensions and Other Laws. When we talk about early pensions, we have a very large number of early pensions over 35% and that is what is worrying because they are young pensioners who will be in the system long enough to be provided for them. So no one talked about disability pensions that they were the result of privatisation or conversion anyways as you set it up. As far as the figures are concerned, so the figures in Croatia are extremely high over 25% of the disability pensions. Some countries have slightly smaller percentages, some have larger ones. The average of Europe is about 15%. I never said the highest percentage of disability pensions is 15%. I said there's a 15% average in Europe. Therefore, the average is 15% and the range is between 15% and 20%. Therefore, do not interpret my words differently than I say. I know exactly what I said. The average is 15%, the range is 15 to 20, and we have over 27%. And on the other hand, when we talk about the figures themselves, Germany is again one of the countries that has the lowest, but because they automatically turn disability pensions into retirement pensions in 65 years. That's what we'll do in our law, so when it's 65 years old, if you have a disability pension, it automatically turns into an age in the same amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57766	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57767	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, I know that the fact that you will never admit that she hurts you. You knew, you took over. In Croatia... 305,000 unemployed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Your government's moves in two years have caused a state of every day of 1,000 new unemployed. Today we have 355,000. However, what concerns who will earn those pensions. Of these 355, or already 356 or 51 percent, there are eight unemployed young people. What have you done for them besides 1600 kuna? I'd say it's a one-time help. You did not stimulate and encourage young people to seek work outside of the place of residence, for example the City of Zagreb. I can't find people in smaller places or engineers or doctors or professors. And how he will go there to work when you do not encourage him to live, to transport, or to live outside his dwelling. Unfortunately, people travel 150, 200km from Zagreb, but they return very quickly because they cannot finance their apartment in the place of residence and some other apartment where they should pay. So think about it. These young people need to work and earn their pensions in the 2050s or the 1960s, not to have 1,000 new people and a thousand others lost their jobs and come to the stock market every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57768	Replication response, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57769	Well, I'm sorry this is turning into a discussion about the Employment Encouragement Act. But, well, politics is politics. So when you're talking about numbers, please quote the figures correctly. At this point, there are no 355, 356 but 352. That's what your colleague said before, so you can see it on the Internet yourself. On the other hand, when you talk about 52% of young unemployed, 52% are in the age group from 15 to 25. We've got 140,000 of those. Of which 70,000 were employed, and 70,000 were not employed. But when we talk about the number that is more suitable for Croatia, Europe has also honored that our cohort of young people is between 15 and 29, then the number of young unemployed is 34.7%. We're talking about real numbers. Let's not alarm the public with 52% numbers. It is not 52% of the number of unemployed young people, but 52% in this younger age group because, unlike Europe, we have no problem with giving up education, we have no problems with people who are lost to the system, and Europe has approved us so that next year we will get 37m euros for this age group. But let's refer to the right numbers. And these 1,000 people who came to the Employment Service aren't young, just young. These were people who were inactive, so they realized it was better to apply to the Employment Service to use active employment policy measures. Part of them returns from the work process, part of them returns from inactivity. And when we talk about numbers, let's look at what those numbers mean. Thus, no 52% of the total number of unemployed are young, but somewhere around 19% are young to 29 in the total number of unemployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57770	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57771	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you spoke and initially said that the pension system secures pensions. The peace system isn't even a system. It can't be called a system that doesn't work. It can't be called something system where there's a constant lack of 50% of the resources to function that system. So, at least half the pensions provide something outside the system. As early as two, three years ago in Croatia, an argument on justification began, and did it meet the expectations of the second pension column? There's been no change. All countries have approached changes or even abolished the second pension pillar, nothing has happened in Croatia. So you can't even talk about pension reform. When you talk about the optimal number of pensioners he depends on the structure of the economy, he is not the same number for all countries. The minimum limit for optimum is 2.5 employees per 1 pensioner to 3 per pensioner. Therefore, it cannot even be considered 2 employees per 1 pensioner in Croatia that it is optimal. No, a minimum of 2.5 must be in Croatia to make it optimal. All of the economic policy model in Croatia is that the effects of work go abroad, that those who graduate from college go directly to the Employment Office and today with a high and higher 46,000 unemployed in Croatia with a higher and higher school and that those with this law will be drained, crushed and those who can only go from work to a cemetery.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57772	Replication response, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57773	When we talk about the number of workers and the number of pensioners I didn't say that 1 to 2 is optimal but 1 to the 2 is what we can accomplish and what is possible. We above that are very difficult to get above that number. But that ensures how much stability the system is because we are now almost 1 to the 1 right now. When we talk about the system, so what is the fact that a man who retires now at 65 and 40 years of employment will enjoy that pension a year shorter than a worker who retires at 67 and 40 years of employment. So much for numbers. So we've also done these analyses in all these analyses. As for the pension system itself, you had a chance to return the second pillar to the first pillar. You had eight years ahead of you to figure out what to do with the pension reform. You didn't do anything, you left it the way it is, we've been hoarding our debts and we haven't done anything in designing the system. Certain shifts in the level of inclusion of 27% in the equation were made, some shifts were made. However, the system is not designed. Why didn't you stop him in the last eight years, and you were either developing him or you were supposed to shut him down? You didn't do anything. As much about it as about how you decide. You've had eight years to solve it, you haven't done it, and I absolutely reject any comments on your part that should have been made. Why didn't you do it?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57774	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. The first in line is representative of SDP's Club of Representatives, colleague Vanja Posavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57775	I thank the esteemed vice presidents, ministers with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support the adoption of the Pension Insurance Act. The relevant Pension Insurance Act has arranged the so-called so-called “Retirement Insurance” Act. The first pillar of the three-part Croatian pension insurance and the second and third pillars of that system constitute compulsory and voluntary pension insurance on the basis of individualised capitalised savings. The provisions of the law provide insurance companies with mandatory rights for age and disability, and the members of their families with rights for the death of insurance workers, i.e. the beneficiary of pensions, the right to age, early age, disability, family, minimum and basic pension, professional rehabilitation, compensation for physical damage and travel expenses in connection with the achievement of secured rights. However, taking into account the status of the first pension pillar for August 2013, which is 1.22 million pensioners versus 1.5 million insurance undertakings, it is proportionate for the pension system to be in difficulty. As is the case in most European countries, both because of the economic crisis and because of the problem of unemployment. In 2012, pension and pension income expenditure amounted to €35.197 billion, €10.3 billion, with revenue of €19.3 billion, i.e. 54% of property expenditure and other 46% of pension expenditure financed from the state budget. It is important to say that the pension adjustment expenditure in 2012 amounted to around 500 million kuna. The proposed law in the first reading seeks to achieve fiscal consolidation and, on the other hand, to provide pensioners with more adequate protection against the risk of poverty and more appropriate conditions for the exercise of rights and the determination and harmonisation of pensions. What will be achieved by this law? What I would particularly stress and explain because there have been all sorts of speculations will gradually increase age limits for the acquisition of old age pension rights and for early retirement. According to the proposed law, from 2014 to 2030, the same age conditions would be maintained for obtaining a retirement pension and early retirement pension for women prescribed by the applicable Pension Insurance Act. Also for men until 2030, current conditions of age from 65 years of age would remain. From 1 January 2031 onwards, the age for gaining the right to early retirement and old age would gradually increase by three months each year until 2037. Thus, starting on 1 January 2038, the right to retire would be obtained with 67 years of life and 15 years of retirement, and the right to early retirement from 62 years of life and 35 years of retirement. In this regard, it should also be noted that most EU countries are adapting their pension system to an expected increase in life expectancy by gradually increasing the age of retirement or linking the amount of future pensions to changes in life expectancy. This law will also allow for the right to early retirement without reducing pensions for insurance companies who remain jobless due to bankruptcy. So not your fault. It will stimulate retirement at an older age and with a longer retirement period. It is proposed to determine the percentage of the increase in the starting factor for retirement, depending on the completed pension rate. Thus, insurance who, after 65 years of life, is worth a lower age and for the first time is entitled to retirement, who have 35 and more years of retirement pensions increase by 0.15% per month later, while insurance who have 41 and more years of retirement would increase by 0.34% for each month later retirement. What is also important in this law, which is that it will allow the use of old age pensions with work to half the time. Redefining the work ability assessment system will encourage professional rehabilitation of persons with remaining working skills. Namely, the Institute of Professional Rehabilitation will improve to return to the world of work. The right to professional rehabilitation will have an insurance on the basis of reduced working capacity with the remaining working capacity before 53 years of age. This law will also allow for the exercise of the right to a disability pension due to partial loss of work capacity and temporary disability pension. The review shall also follow in the event of a general inability to work and during the application of the right on the basis of disability of physical impairment or total loss of working capacity for a member of the family. These new amendments also introduce a more favourable model of pension harmonisation. A double pension harmonisation regime is introduced, the current way is changed and variable is introduced. The new law will also allow for a more appropriate way of calculating basic pensions. The personal points determined on the basis of the training completed since 2002 are multiplied by the basic pension factor. Yes, pensions will be paid via banks only exceptionally by mail to the address of the users but as the minister said, and as we have already established on the board those who receive by mail will continue to receive, but I also believe that a single problem that exists will be respected, which is the geographical coverage of banks and indeed pensioners who are immobilised. And what needs to be said is that this law will shorten the deadlines for applying and checking out on pension insurance from 8 days to 24 hours from the start or termination of business or employment in order to enable better control of the employer, protection of workers and their rights and efficiency of work inspectors to combat the grey economy and work on black, and to prescribe a surveillance inspection. The expenditure on pensions and pension income under those grounds would be reduced by around 85 million kuna in 2014 and by 150 million kuna in 2015 compared to the expenditures that would be incurred in the same period under the applicable Pension Insurance Act. This legislative proposal should be put forward in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. The law is also in the first reading, and I believe that the ministry will study any possible objections, suggestions, opinions, and in order to provide more quality legislation that will truly provide the pensioners with more adequate protection. The SDP will therefore support this Proposal for a Pension Insurance Act on behalf of everything previously laid down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57776	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, visiting the Croatian Parliament, the Turkish Parliament's delegation, or the Great Turkish National Assembly, arrived. The delegation is headed by Ms Ayse Türkemenoglu, who also heads the Interparliamentary Friendship Group Turkey-Croatia. Our work is being followed from the gallery, so please welcome them. ... We wish you a pleasant stay in Croatia, successful meetings with our parliamentarians. [[Applause.]] Replica Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57777	Thank you. My colleagues, you were talking about fiscal consolidation, the normal thing is that talking on this topic is a serious conversation and that any ideologies that can already be smelled in the air should be excluded. The secret is simple so 1 per 1 is unsustainable, 1 employee and 1 pensioner. If the goal is to have 2 employees and at least 1 in 2 and that's not good, but let's say that we can survive in some way because if we get into a gene, then we'll come to this really. And what has been done in the last 8 years, what has been done since the 1990s when privatisation was only in Split, and in terms of what was war and all the other tragedies that happened to Croatia, and then privatisation came, some sold privatisation as a croatisation and in fact that privatisation in Split was 20,000 jobs, carried away, in fact a humus where Croatian society was to grow. Today we see this, we will not talk about the re-ethical fate that awaits many, precisely because of what was done to the Croatian people in that time, let's try to approach this problem in the way that it deserves it. And it's serious, without each other's hatred, conflicting and... Which this country really will if we keep destroying it like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And none of us want to, let's be serious, let's be what we need to be, and that's the representatives of the Croatian people in the Supreme Legislative Body of the Republic of Croatia called Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57778	The answer to the replica Vanja Posavec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57779	Thank you. The dear fellow here can't say anything but to fully agree with you only that unfortunately it's not just a case in Split but many other cities, but I agree with you that we legislators need to talk first and basicly about the law, a little less politicizing, and then perhaps the people about MPs and politicians would have a better opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57780	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Đuro Popiac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57781	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we finally have the long-published Pension Insurance Act, which, as we see ourselves today, will certainly try to declare by the current government a major reform, but as with most of what we have been served by this government so far, this is another article that only testifies what a great lack of competence, knowledge and expertise is present in today's administration. In the introduction, the assessment of the situation is given to the picture of our pension system and all numbers presented clearly indicate that without serious reforms, such a system will not be maintained. Due to the fact that the budget of the Republic of Croatia gives about half the funding needed to pay out pensions, that the ratio of users and insurance companies is 1:23 or 1:21, now decide which number is correct and that, as a result of the deterioration of the economic situation and labour market developments and over the short term, more and more problems can be expected. To believe it was that the government would really start with reforms that would restore confidence in the sustainability of the pension system. We still recognize this system today as the prevailing system of generation solidarity. So those who work single out of their work a certain amount for those who receive pensions. And that's how we're supposed to see in this law that it's been going on for decades. Of the 36 needed billions of kunas about 18, we collect the rest by taxes. We can hardly call this a system of intergenerational solidarity today, and this law, in what it offers, is further away from its sustainability. Trying to analyze the reasons for change, the effects that are being achieved, it is difficult to actually understand the motives that forced the government and this ministry to propose such a law to us, regardless of the good presentation of the situation and the objectives that the minister in the introduction has kept here. We do not have a chance to see any relevant analysis of the effects of any of the changes in question, but at first glance there is an obvious trade within the coalition partners. What we can say is that this law is neither good for the state budget nor for the economy, and especially even though the minister is trying to pass on to them in the finality it will not be good for the pensioners. When reading or listening to explanations, it is difficult to determine what is essentially desired. This confusion is also seen in the section on the assessment of the necessary means of law enforcement. This chapter expected much more detailed analysis of the fiscal effects of changes but as far as it went in 2014, 2015 and the law mentions periods until 2038 or the introduction of what the minister said further in the '50s and '60s. How much did I manage to add up and subtract what it says in that chapter, it's about a hundredth or 200 million kunas that plus, which is minus in the state budget. We miss 18 billion kunas every year in the pension fund. What kind of reform it is and what it is used for, as it says for 2014 and 2015, a total reduction of 235 million kuna. And yet there's no record. Although the effects of changes in the pension system always apply to several years after the start of application. Based on what simulations did these changes ever occur? Like so far, the method of trying and failing and the problems these changes will cause will be solved by someone else anyway. Allow me a few comments on some concrete solutions that are proposed. Well, here's the first thing about moving years for retirement. It is true that some European countries are raising the age limit for getting into retirement but with a completely different economic picture. Something to start in 2030 and end in 2038 really has nothing to do with the current and upcoming problems of our pension system. That doesn't solve anything. He probably wants to make an impression of the great readiness for reforms, but since I'm not doing any political damage, it's not gonna cost anything. The law again provides for the introduction of a full-time institute suspended 15 years ago. The estimate is that around 10, 11 thousand people could be covered by this measure in 2014. Although only an increase in costs on this basis is negligible, this measure is in collapsing with other solutions that predicate to stimulating the long-term remainder in the process of work. Or at the end of the years of life that are needed for full-age retirement. This provision is contrary to the proposal's fundamental intensity to increase the retirement limit to 67 years, which justifies fiscal reasons and structural problems in the pension system. If the situation in the pension system is such that it requires an extension of years of age to obtain a full pension then the number of years of internships is less important, I guess. In this way, people who spend a long time in education are discriminated against, which is contrary to the definition of society to encourage young people to education and to prepare for participation in the labour market through knowledge. They won't be able to retire at 60 because they won't have 41 years of training. According to this proposal, people with secondary education will be able to go 7 years earlier in retirement than those with university education because the age limit will generally move to 67 years. The introduction of years of internships as a criterion for early retirement reopens the space to artificially collect a pension internship through payments of various insurances as was the case before the 1999 reform, and then we will again wonder that we have young pensioners. In the direction of this outcome, the provision also leads to the fact that a person who spent two years on the stock market due to bankruptcy and has the right to early retirement can make the early retirement without reducing his retirement. This means that a 60-year-old man who is unemployed has the right to early retirement that will not be retired. Reduced due to early retirement, however, the same man who is working and who decides on early retirement will be exposed to such a pension. This means that the law reopens the space for abuses. Imagine the situation where the employer moves employees he wants to fire into a private company, sends the company into bankruptcy, the stock market workers, and workers still support such a process because they will be able to make full retirement. Hypothetically possible variant. This only serves to artificially reduce the number of unemployed rather than engage the government in an economic recovery that would allow people close to retirement a possible opportunity for re-employment. The government is reopening the space for the pension system to be used as a place where problems in the economy are amortised. Obviously, this is nothing more than a concession to a coalition partner. There is also a question of motives for introducing work opportunities up to half the working time without reducing pensions. It's noble to think about possibilities for additional income from pensioners, but right now is the time to do so given the state of the labour market. Although the minister does not like to hear it, 352,000 are unemployed today, with the highest rate of unemployed young educated people. We're the third country in Europe. Have the consequences of this provision been seriously considered? Isn't that an additional blow to the possibility of hiring highly educated young people, and isn't that opening up a space to knock down the labour price? Would it not be possible to limit the amount of income that a pensioner can earn by working without suspending his pension? In doing so, early pensioners are also discriminated against, although pensions are lower, and additional income is of course more necessary. A new pension harmonisation mechanism has been introduced into the bill. In addition to complications, the system is completely unclear and unknown effects although it is claimed that this method will not result in a decline in the real value of pensions. In addition, if wages rise less than the price of pension incomes or the general revenue of the budget from which half of the pension is paid. Thanks to the government's disastrous economic policy over the past two years, the available income of citizens has been reduced due to tax premiums and price hikes, declines in consumption, declines in industrial production, budget revenues from all cornerstones of unemployment growth. Of course, it is not stated here which new budget revenues will be provided with these legal rights, in particular which other expenditures are meant to be reduced in order to compensate for these commitments. You put your answer in next year's budget announcement, so growth in deficits, growth in debt, sale of assets, enormous borrowings, and here we see nothing else and you don't know, new taxes. Of course, I don't think it's the pensioners' fault, it's the government that's failing to start an economic recovery, which is the only possible formula to solve pension and pension problems. As regards the parts of the laws which speak and on pensioning, it is particularly necessary to take a look at Article 80(1) point 4. It would be extremely useful to understand what these factors bring to individual groups of pensioners. What is the goal of introducing these factors, and why are they different? Does that mean cutting pensions? If you can explain as much as you can to whom. For example. Writes factor 1 have members of HAZU, Croatian defenders 0.85, NOB participants until '43. the year 0,70 and since '43. By '45. 0,85, MPs in the Parliament, members of the Government and the Constitutional Court with 0.45 etc. Can someone here say what happens to the current pensions of these groups of citizens and why this method of different factors has occurred as we see from 0.45 to 1, because if it goes towards a reduction why the level of reduction differs. Another change opens up certain doubts, which is restoring the concept of minimum pension instead of the lowest pension so far. The minimum pension should be made by anyone whose pension is calculated should be less than minimum, but the resulting minimum pension would be linked to the average salary paid. If that's the case, isn't it opening up the space so that in practice we don't start to get a minimum wage paid over the bill, and a possible rest on our hands because the height of the salary to the average would no longer affect the future pension. Does that mean that all those who received between minimum and average salaries will have the same pension? Another major change that directly affects employers in hiring new workers. We don't know if the author of this bill has ever set foot in some smaller HZMO office or was at least close to real life in conditions where no secure electronic application is really out of your mind to suggest something like this. We wonder if there is an end to the abuse of entrepreneurs by such and similar obligations as those imposed on the pension system within 24 hours. We've heard about the retardation as far as the mailman is concerned. But it was obvious that it was prepared for the government to make a major contribution to the development of the card system of banks and to increase the traffic on ATMs because this solution would allow new 1900000 clients. But here, somehow, that's gonna be settled by this deal between the government and the mail. This proposed law has not been positively assessed by the social partners either. So we heard that the Social Economic Council had different opinions, not from the professional public. I've spoken to a lot of distinguished experts about this Retirement System Act. No one's been positively determined. Even some say they haven't been consulted at all. This law does not even represent a minimum step towards solutions to the problem of the pension system that are presented and presented. It is unclear, incomprehensible and difficult to understand the reasons for adopting such a proposal. It is also impossible to make repairs, and therefore I do not support sending it to another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57782	And now we're going to cross the lines. Vanya Posavac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57783	Thank you. Dear colleague, the law is in the first reading and you are free and as a club and you could make suggestions, opinions, amendments through the committee. But in your debate, I only hear you're wondering, but you didn't suggest anything. And also, when you say it, it's a catastrophic policy in the last two years. I think you're a little confused. The disaster policy is eight years ago, and now, unfortunately, everything should be in order, which of course is not easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57784	The answer to the replica of Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57785	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear colleague. We can see that you're unisonly responding, so both the government representatives and you sitting in the assembly benches. So you learned four sentences. Nothing's good before, we can't, or we're not frames in two years to correct what you've ruined. However, the figures themselves and the whole public are no longer interested in the end. So I'll tell you again that you've taken power with 305,000 large 305,000 unemployed. If today there are 355,000 or so, it will be on Friday, unfortunately. And so what is it that you and your tails can justify and constantly repeat, in fact, that fog, that is to say, you are trying to cloud all the disastrous things that your government has brought here to the Croatian Parliament. So obviously now all the replicas and address of ministers and anyone will go to it and to the same scheme. However, all the figures, all the reality and all the brutal state that Croatian citizens are exposed to today are mostly and to the greatest extent is the product of your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57786	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57787	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Why, my colleague, I think it's quite offensive and especially when you say it. You could have more understanding for all of this, even praises to find. Because the easiest thing to say is something's wrong, it doesn't need any knowledge. But that something is right and that's why you need to make an effort, and that's why you need to know something. Well, then you say you're starting with such a flat-rate and above all an offensive sentence that this bill is an expression of lack of competence. So you're declaring the minister and his team incompetent and that's usually your vocabulary. So when it's obvious that it's not stolen and taken away, then it's always incompetent for you. Because there's some other attribute you can't tell. So you're creating a very bad message, not just by speaking at random. So the ability can only be capable when it's in power to move something aside. It's that ability and you say no one cares anymore. Maybe citizens don't really care what happened before but they're interested in courts. So much for that disastrous economic policy you're talking about. But what you especially point out when you can't just deny something that's good in law, so then you say the minister is courting the pensioners. And who am I supposed to be courting? Hundreds, baggers? Who do you think he should be courting? So he really wants to do it and this bill of law is an attempt, not an attempt but a good solution to keep this pension system, with all the troubles and accidents you've left to be sustainable and to keep it for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57788	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57789	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Popioč, so, of course, when you have a reasoned discussion, as you have pointed out in your debate, all the problems that exist are not good for the ruling one. It is not good for them to point out all the problems, and somewhere in 2010 you remember what happened in this House when they hired a singer who wore a brooch with a phone number. That was the number of unemployed 317625. So I suggest you hire that same lady, so now bring a phone brooch 524999 or the other one will be very soon provided with 555000. There's so much about it, about credibility, about who's justified and unargumented in this House. It is argued that Croatia is third in Europe because of this situation at the edge of poverty. Greece, Bulgaria and Croatia. That's terrible!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57790	Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57791	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In your discussion, you said there were no simulations to see how this model would work, or what should be done to make it good. Neither did the minister mention it, and it was said as the previous government and the minister's discussion had no solution, and then with wood and stones it goes to privatisation. In this context, it is not mentioned that, according to the law, one third of the privatisation revenue went to pension funds that were independent of the budget. That fund is '99. He had 24 billion years. The government that came, the 6-nation coalition, Racan's government, nationalised the fund, included in the budget and thus patched the gaps from the budget. It would be interesting to see what would have happened if that fund had continued to function and charge and what would then be the difference in this lack, i.e. the differences that should be compensated from the budget. That's one thing. On the other hand, I think it has already become out of its minds to say we are putting order after eight years of riots, and it is forgotten that in eight years or ten years before that Croatia has fulfilled all the conditions, introduced all the laws, all the norms according to the EU's strictest criteria, but not in this interpretation of the mess and all that is simply wrong. Therefore, this thesis of order and disorder is simply out of every sense when put into one broader context beyond these party bickerings.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57792	Replication response, Djuro Poppie.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57793	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Of course, we listened at the beginning and watched a presentation that was a mix of presentations of the situation, goals that should be achieved, something about demographics but unfortunately we didn't have the opportunity to see real analysis, actual simulation and actual evaluation of those solutions that are proposed here in this law, that is, such an analysis that would say that these solutions reached the goals that could be read in the presentation. We can end up signing them, too, and we can all sign them. That's what's really going to happen. But that is why we also argue that we do not know on the basis of which analysis, what data and what arguments can ultimately be understood that it will enable these objectives to be achieved. But of course, about all those flossules that we're hearing, and they're going to be getting more and more common as much as possible for their government's moves, they have some alibis and the culprits, and we need to get used to that. But unfortunately, here's except for these alibis, obviously nothing more and nothing further, nothing more quality here than that, we can't expect in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57794	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57795	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In your presentation, you said that this law should be a major reform of the Pension Insurance Act and, of course, that, and it is not angry and our colleagues from the SDP, not realizing that and the satisfaction of what is done is certainly everyone's lucky but the criticism should be taken as help in the work, in this way it should be experienced. And of course you said among other things that they're talking about some future time and it's interesting that in these two years they're always talking about a bright future. So it was about GDP growth in the first quarter, the second quarter of 2012, in 2013, now the prime minister says it will be 2014. That something is not good, that this bill is not good at all, and that the minister is courting the pensioners is also telling the morning Retired Union who was in front of the Republic of Croatia and they've all shared these flyers in which at 11 points they're talking about the wrong proposal of this law, and the most they're talking about is what you said there was no clear strategy, that there was not one full discussion of pension reform, that there was no deep analysis and simulation of what your colleague Tudjman was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57796	Answer? No, I don't. Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57797	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow drinker, so here's the thing I wanted to say before for an introduction that it seems to me that exaggeration can have two motivations, or I can be emotional or lucid. We often use emotionally in human relations and as parents, and this excess of yours seemed lucid because something my colleague Ingrid said about it, when you say that those who propose the law do not know, have no competence, or when you say that it is impossible to fix this legal proposal. I think it's an exaggeration. You have the right to make a political speech, and I would also support a colleague of Shucker who said that as little politicizing on this subject as possible. Here's to try just one very important thing that seems to me to be touched in your debate, but either you didn't understand it or you didn't want to understand it. When we talk about any system and the pension system, this topic is extremely serious, I agree with my colleague Shuker, an extremely serious subject, we can't get around time, we have to look into the past, we have to look into the future. Simply these processes take place in time and all that we today, for which we are suffering consequences and what we have problems is the consequence of what has not been done well in the past or done wrong. Also, when you mention an increase in the number of years for retirement, it is certain that such solutions will have implications for the future. And they're not as harmless as you say, so now it's unnecessary, that you don't have to do them. There are different ways we have talked about it and in changing the law different ways in which the pension system can be improved but it is certain that in such a system, and as it exists in the physics of the law of inert there is safe and in social sciences, there must always be an optimum. And I think the minister's presentation has shown that it's gone to the best of what can be done at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57798	The answer to the replica of Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57799	Thank you very much. So that's why I'm talking about that collapsing, which means everything that has any sign of any kind of reform is delayed for some future time because I repeat, political nothing costs. So if you've had the courage to really think about reforms, then why take you in for 67 years now? You refer to this as a potential need for times when none of them are likely to be a large part of the users of that system anymore. But you're affecting something that really doesn't have any effect today other than what you can possibly get certain political benefits like that at 41 years of full-time, you don't think about the consequences of all those who go to school today who want to get into a set of work as young highly educated people with a perspective unknown because we see what the status of employees or unemployed in that category of population is. So you definitely can't say that this looks like a denial that this doesn't really look like one coalition compromise, and yet, given the increasingly likely election of courting to a single constituency.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57800	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57801	Thank you very much. A fellow Drinker is the worst when people with healthy eyes are blind, and this law offers us exactly that. Because if you're offering something that's going to happen in the future and what has the most picturesque effect can be shown as a single triangle means every year the commitment is growing, and you don't have any real mathematical analysis so-called. mathematically... if you will, which change this law means in the future you simply in plus and in the minus and do not offer a system that is sustainable. We have the government's fiscal projections for 2015 and 2016 we have an offer of some new indexation, so why, according to these fiscal projections, someone didn't make an assessment of what to say in 2015, 2016 if this law and 2014 were applied to the budget, which means indexation of pensions. But there's something very interesting, the Minister drumming and remains alive that 33 billion contributions have not been charged in 8 years. This House passed the Law on outstanding claims in 2002, a period of 1 year. See in that law you were then in power to determine how many unpaid contributions there were, so count on that interest rate between 14 and 18% protective rate, and you'll get some indicators. But what my colleague Tudjman mentioned is that capital fund, capital fund from the pensioners, so there's no colleagues there. So in 2002, under cover of greater efficiency, HZMO and HZO were put into the budget and thus the government had shares. It would be very interesting to see 1.1. which companies whose shares were in that fund and how many shares are left today, who and at what prices these shares have been sold, and then we will talk about honesty.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57802	The answer to the replica of Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57803	Thank you very much. So that a colleague here is what he writes and we're talking about because there's no assessment or analysis of the impact of any of these measures, the only thing we can read is that in the assessment of the necessary funds that pension and property income expenditures are based on those grounds to cut by a total of 85 million 2014 and 150 million in 2015. This is all we have the opportunity to read in the light of this law as a conclusion in this chapter on the effects it will have on the state budget but also on the pensioners themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57804	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57805	Dear colleague Popioč, here I am going to refer to colleagues who spoke hypocritically before me when politicians ask their fellow politicians to speak with as little political moves as possible, or as little politicizing as possible. And the followers of the neoliberal ideology say to speak in the Assembly without ideology, that's one thing. The country that has this HGK has no chance, the economy of a country that has this kind of HGK and those who supported it, and you know well who supported HGK and the man who has been harassing so many years in HGK has no chance at all. The country has no chance of fostering a cult of personality, a country where the only diploma was a membership card, a country in which imports were stimulated because of the commission and production was detimised, in a country where the 90s were forced into retirement. That's the consequence of the '90s today. In a country where pensions bought massively. It's one of the biggest crimes that hasn't been expressed because of that so many pensioners today. Even the president of a retired party bought it as well. In a country where similarity was more important than knowledge, in a country where witnesses of thieves were pillars of society, it's hard to make order, it's hard. You need to look at what we have today, these are the consequences of what was done in the 1990s. Now we can tell for decades it's been destroying itself and it's very difficult now in just a few years, a few months in two years to correct all that doesn't justify this government what it hasn't done so far. But when speaking should be spoken you said before the arguments. The arguments are not on your side.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57806	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourist-Stranke labor colleagues Zlatko Tušak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57807	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. This law is a very important law. It concerns a million and 200 thousand present pensioners and about a million and 800 thousand future pensioners. There are also 350,000 unemployed in these future pensioners. What I must say on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club is that we are dissatisfied because the debate over the law itself was held for a month in the summer period and we think that such an important law should have been held either before the summer break but also more seriously approached by the amendments to this law. We know where the current pensioners are located. There was talk here today about being a country of poverty. We have about 900 thousand citizens on the verge of poverty somewhere. And there are data here and that we are the third country in the European Union according to that data. A large number of pensioners are in that group of poverty and according to the data 550,000 pensioners receive a pension of up to 2 thousand kuna from 867 thousand pensioners up to 3000 kuna, which could say that these 3,000 kunas are some kind of normal amount to live with. Today there is also a certain symbolism because we are discussing the Law on Pension Insurance on today, which is Child Day. We're talking about a law that will have its certain activities after 2030 but we're not talking about what's the point of extending the age limit. The minister here said it was about 350 grand missing jobs and that's why. I have to say and agree with him that we may be short 350 thousand jobs but not because we're getting older but because young people leave Croatia, go to Austria, go to Canada, go to Germany. Probably with her going there she will also start her families and probably won't even return to Croatia and that will be the consequence that we will have fewer and fewer populations but clearly we will have less and less active population. Another thing that when we talk about extending the age limit, then we should talk about whose initiative is that? World Bank initiative. Whether we are this way and advocating ourselves to the World Bank and going to change that part of the law to extend the age limit. And what will happen to the changes to that law? We'll have more and more people who won't see a full-age retirement because they won't be able to work at their jobs and they'll have to go to early retirement. Going to early retirement is also minor expenditure from the budget. The state will save on that. Because if we look at each other and we imagine there are jobs where we really can't work until 67 years. I'm asking myself a question and clearly the minister whether the waiter will be able to serve guests for 67 years and that those with whom such a waiter will work will certainly not. Will nurses be able to turn and care for patients in hospitals? I'm sure he won't be in 67 years. Will construction workers be able to be on a scale or on a roof at 67? I'm sure he won't. And not to mention the textile workers who spend their working hours in a particular position and from that they also have certain health problems. But what we must say in the context of changing the extension of the retirement age, and that's the question of those other laws, and that's 56 hours of work. Then we ask ourselves whether the concept of this law is that as few people as possible have full retirement and are forced to leave early retirement. It's 41 years of internships and 60 years of retirement, clearly we can support it. But we're asking ourselves a certain question why there should be an age limit of 60 years. Why is it not enough 41 years of full retirement training, whoever made it, has also made certain financial resources that they can earn this full-age pension because in this way they will be damaged especially by women because of their departure, the transitional retirement period may be about 41 years old, but because of 60 years, they will not be able to make retirement. The law also offers certain solutions, and this is the possibility for pensioners to work part-time who have obtained the right to full-time retirement. Whether this mechanism of solution offered will not lead to one situation that these 350,000 unemployed will not be able to find a job because it is clear that some will have cheaper labour through pensioners who will be able to work part-time and receive a pension. I agree with those who think that the pensioner's standard is bad and that in some way we could fix the standard by working part-time, but what about those who can't work half the time. So the basic concept, which is what I initially warned, is that there is no quality debate about this law, that not all elements are not taken into account, and that it has not been calculated what will be the issue of the application of this law in the short term, and what in some longer period. We have the current budget, and according to that budget, 500 million kuna was missing, and it had to be related to the draft budget rebalance which will happen next year. And on the other hand, we have a pension fund, and this law is trying to sort of separate it. 160,000 people who, by special regulations or what we call "privileged pensions" make pensions. Clearly, the decisions of these laws will be punished and will reduce pensions because such an option is provided for by law to separate and which are according to special regulations, but here I must also warn certain that in these special regulations in these 15 categories and workers are professionally exposed to asbestos, that there are workers in the Istrian coal mine and that there are insurance and ship crew members in international navigation and national navigation. And the most important thing to say is that somewhere in that part of the pension in the budget it is necessary to secure 8.2 billion, and on the other hand there has been no serious approach to change. We will have a few days of debate and compulsory and voluntary pension funds, and when we talk about reform, then we should have shared a more quality discussion, take all arguments and see if this mandatory pension fund and when we talk about the second pillar is sustainable, what experience some countries in the European Union have and what countries have left such a model of the second mandatory pillar. It is Hungary, Slovakia, Poland, and many countries have also reduced the separation rate because they have realised that the existence of the second pension pillar does not have a very large guarantee. Why some developed countries don't have such a model, why we don't look up to them, and why seriously when we talk about reforming the pension system, we don't reanalyze both, we see good things and bad things, and on that basis we offer certain legal solutions. And something that we have to count on, that at the age limit of those who now set out in pension funds somewhere around 400,000 of them in 15 years will be 65 years old. They will meet the conditions for full-age retirement and will join the pension fund. Whether we have done some projections on this basis, whether we have seen the sustainability of the system and whether our budget can actually withstand this kind of funding, or whether we should seriously analyse some other things and approach some better quality and better changes when we talk about pension funds and ensure a safer future for future pensioners, but also a better and better payment of pensions to current pensioners. Croatian Labourists will still carry out some of the consultations, we are planning some expert discussions, and then we will decide on how to define ourselves based on these analyses and certain advantages and good and bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57808	Thank you, Your Honor. We have reports of replicas on your exhibit. The first replica and respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57809	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleague Tušak. You were talking about the necessary expert debate. Well, the debate should otherwise be based on a professional, economic and social level. But what worries them all out both professionally and economically and socially, and it involved only politically and it was devastating. This kind of thing is only political, and the facts are neither left nor right, the facts are facts. And they suggest that pensioners are one of the most endangered groups in Croatia, most affected by all possible reforms. They are always said to benefit from reforms, but such reforms are agreed by employers, not by trade unions, pensioners. Then it is known to whom such a reform goes, and the facts tell us that they will never be able to deal with anything further, because neither young people can do nor work, let alone older ones. The facts say they barely survive and struggle with the survival of the naked and the struggle to pay for the director. That's all their life turned into. While in civilized countries, pensioners travel and enjoy and spend their pensions. With us if I can pay for the directors and then the naked fight for life, because inflation and inflation rates are just a fair of lies in Croatia. Food collected 35% in one year, directed 40% in one year alone. It's facts and it can't and can't always be the fault of anyone who's ever been before. And if someone came in second with six billion kunas of rebalance, then it would be a new face revolution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57810	Thank you very much. Reply to the Replica Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57811	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Maric, I completely agree with you. I also said that we do not have a strategic approach when we talk about certain reforms and clearly what you have indicated 550,000 pensioners who have a pension of up to 2000 kuna with these purchases, prices that are not able to pay all directors, are not even able to provide themselves with a diet. If kids work for them eventually, then help them, but most of the pensioners are in a very difficult situation and that's the problem. And there is no economic development in that part, there is no development strategy in Croatia, and we tap in place with this law. Nothing important will change those 550,000 pensioners, and they will not experience the situation that they will have a significantly higher pension to live with. They may have been sentenced for the rest of their lives to a small pension and to surviving what is the worst situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57812	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57813	Dear fellow Tušak, here is a moment ago Mr. Maric said the facts are neither left nor right. But the causes that led to these facts can be both left and right or one or the other. You mentioned the problem of young people moving out. Without solving these young people's problems, the problem of the pensioners will not be solved. You said that young people will continue to go to Canada, they'll probably go to Australia, South America, Scandinavian countries and never come back. That's where they'll start their families. How come they need young, educated people in whom we spend an awful lot of money. We don't need those young educated people. We need party people who are faithful. How is it that they greatly appreciate knowledge, and we do not appreciate that knowledge? We educate these people and then we don't give them a job. How is it that we, the Greeks and the Spanish have the most young unemployed, have the greatest difficulty. Well, because we don't appreciate knowledge, because we're not the country that's been tampering with the land of knowledge for years. We're not a land of knowledge. We are the land of ignorance. We're party country. When we begin to respect knowledge, when we begin to respect the knowledge of young people, when we will hire young people we will then be able to talk about increasing production, increasing gross social product and solving the problem of pensioners who are the most vulnerable group of citizens in the Republic of Croatia and all these flossules about that we, which is the law for future pensioners, are going to help pensioners today and now. They cry out for help because they work, because they live beneath human dignity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57814	Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57815	Thank you, colleague Vuksic. Clearly, the young world remains, although we will not take care of young people, and we have 70,000 young people at the Employment Service who simply can't get to their jobs and their only chance is to go somewhere outside, which is the danger I was talking about and will stay and not return to Croatia because they are likely to have a better life there, some better standard. But when we talk about both young people and their satisfaction and those who get hired, then the second question is that they work for a very small salary, for very small incomes, and on the basis of their low incomes and low wages, they are becoming increasingly difficult to decide and start a particular family. And on the other hand, we have a large number of young marriages that have started families, and precisely because of these problems of money, there is a large number of divorces, disagreements in these families, and these are all the consequences of our society that we do not want to seriously think about and seriously talk about and go towards segments by segments of problem solving rather than more or less dealing with certain political issues, we are talking about some other issues and political bickering, and we do not want to join together to ensure some future for these young people that they can live more normally and better, which is most important to keep them in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57816	New replica and respected representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57817	Thank you, Your Honor. In your debate on behalf of the club, you said that one of the objectives of this law that raises the age limit for entering full-age retirement that workers will, therefore, be as few users and full-age pensions as possible that workers will go to early retirement and that the state will actually save. It doesn't really have anything to do with sound logic and it's contradictory. In fact, you yourself said that workers do not exercise the right to full-age retirement, mainly because of illness. So they're going to early retirement because they're mostly sick. So whether the state will save more on pension or have a higher cost of health care, so the medical treatment of workers is completely irrelevant for the state and the state budget is always the cost. In fact, you also know that this government wouldn't raise a line to get into full-age retirement if it had any other option. The more this government is a social democratic government. And you know perfectly well that you would be in a situation where you did the same thing in the government because all European countries had to do it. So they've already raised the age limit to entering retirement to 67 years. But here you are not in power, so you can afford demagogue debates like the one you've been through, I don't know which times you've done here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57818	Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57819	Thank you, Mr. President. So if we're talking about the demagogue debate, then I think the biggest demagogue is Plan 21, because none of Plan 21 has been achieved. It's been promised, and nothing's been fulfilled. And it's not true that early retirement is the same height as full-grown retirement. Early retirement is less and less costing the state. So, if you go to early retirement, it's less and it's less because it's smaller. That's the basic argument I'm talking about. I don't know, maybe somewhere and there's an early retirement that's bigger than some full-time, but it's just that such separations have been in such a job with a small salary. But in total, looking at anyone who goes into early retirement has a smaller pension than going to full-age retirement. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57820	Thank you very much. First one notice. The president of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Representative Nancy Tyreli, invites today to the hall of Ivan Mažuranić, room 84, at a session on gender equality on the topic of combating discrimination against LGBT persons. Representatives who can attend this session are asked to attend. Thank you very much. It's the club of independent and respected advocate Damir Cain. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57821	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. Well, it's good that first of all this law goes into two readings and we'll all agree, they all said that normally when it comes to this law this law treats one of the key substances of society because all of them or all of us are affected. A man normally asks himself a question where does he actually start? Some mentioned coal miners, Tuvaluac. And if I haven't done anything in my 20 years here in the Parliament, I've managed to get all those miners somehow under quotes "translate" into a privileged pension. To be clear, if someone deserves that pension, there are coal miners and in no way can we even it out with privileged pensions. And I'll always defend that, that principle. What's the problem with the pension system? Yes, since the beginning of November of this year, 465 workers have been fired every day in Croatia. In Istria, the situation is just as bad. Every working day after the tourist season, 30 people end up on the Stock Exchange. And that's because we might already have about 10,000 unemployed right now. Mostly at the 9th month or 30th of September, there were 9 100 unemployed in Istria. In Croatia we have or had 18.11. This means two days ago, 350 thousand and 018 unemployed, today 351 thousand. What to say about this law? I'd say he's a pension continuum. We have in the last 12, 13, 14 years de facto had 10-access mini pension reforms. But what the minister said in the '80s we had a ratio of 4 workers to 1 pensioner, 1990 de facto 3 workers per 1 pensioner or a million 968 thousand 737 workers, and on the other hand 655 thousand 788 pensioners. So on the day of the decomposition of the ex-Yugoslavia i.e. with the first these multiparty elections the ratio of the worker-pensioner was 1 to 3. And then there's the war. What didn't divide us in the war, now we see him sharing us, but let's let it go. What's changed in the last 10 years when it comes to pensions? So the age limit for retirement and early retirement was first raised in five years. It was done in the term of Mr. Racan. Secondly, the number of jobs where the benefited internship is determined has been reduced. Third, the term disability is changing. A new formula for calculating pensions was introduced regardless of gender. Then all salaries are taken into the pension calculation, not those of the last ten years. The right to a minimum retirement regardless of the income of the users is imposed, the highest pension is limited, a pension allowance has been introduced from 4 to 27%, a fine of 0.9 to 0.34% per month of early retirement, a bonus was introduced for later retirement per month of 0.15%. By 2030, women will be retired as men, there is no pension for politicians and all of us who, during Vidovic's second pillar, are now allowed to return to the first pillar, all defenders it is Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's law under allegations that we understand ourselves not literally thinking about this "privileged pension" and finally another so-called "privileged pension". Reimbursement of pensions started in the term of Mr Racan, continued in the mandates of Mr Sanader, Mrs Kosor and Milanovic, so that during that period, the Republic of Croatia "returned" 10.5 billion kuna, and in this year there remains the last 120 million kuna to be paid out of the budget to those who have been set aside for the round-trip return for those stopped shares that belonged to them. So that's how he's changed or we can tell that pension system of ours. So where is this Croatian problem? I agree with those who say we had a war, pensions were resolved by a war refugee, exile still drama, we had a conversion, we had an occupation of one third of Croatia, we had a loss of the ex Yugoslavia market, etc. What is interesting, however, is that pensions in Croatia go from the pension system to 35 billion kunas if I am not wrong 19, 16 billion kunas through the budget and that is 11% of GDP, which is not more than in other countries, perhaps even less than some of us are neighbouring but their pensions are incomparable as size. Then where's Croatia's problem? So budget and lack of growth. The system certainly needs to change that 90% of the next day would not make "lowest pensions" because pensions must in no way become social aid. Whether pensions in 2027, as the minister argues, will become 60, 70% of the workers' average salary, God gives but everything depends clearly on the growth of the number of employees and GDP growth, i.e. the budget. We in 1999 who were then in Parliament supported the then Matešina if I am not wrong about the pension reform. Are we meeting about this law today? I don't know, it stays to be seen, and that's why I say the law goes to another reading. The '99 reform has been one of the foundations of all pension reforms over the last 15 years. But what's interesting? Number of employees, for example. 1995 means after the end of the war, Storm, before peaceful integration was bigger than today. In 2000, we had a million 380 thousand 510 insurance companies. In 2012, 432 thousand 740 insurance companies, but the second one, which is interesting in 2000, we had a million and 18 thousand pensioners, and in 2012 a million 217 thousand pensioners or in these as many as 13 years, it means that in 13 years, we now have 50,000 workers more than 2000, but in parallel with that today we have 200 thousand pensioners more than 2000 years, or if a million 270 thousand 692 pensioners as many as we reject millions and 18 thousand 504 as there were in 2000, it turns out that in 13 years there were an increase of 199 thousand 188 pensioners. So 200 grand. And what's he saying? What I keep saying. Since the 2000 crisis, which to date we have lost some 150 thousand jobs in the real sector, and in the upgrade we have managed to employ about 30,000 people. So the problem is economic, the moment is clear for resisting power, my God, but it should be borne in mind that this year's budget of 119 billion kuna 49% of that budget is the rights of citizens, pensions, socialists, defenders, 23% of the budget is employees, 16% are the principal and payment of interest, 5.7% of the subsidy, 4.7 billion kuna help local self-government, de facto for development may remain some billion kuna. The basic issues covered by this proposed law are as follows, according to the proposed law in the period from 2014 to 2030, to retain the same age condition for obtaining an age-old early retirement for women, meaning that they are prescribed by the applicable law. For men, too, until 2030, the current conditions of age 65 would remain. And since 1 January 2031, the age for gaining the right to early retirement and old age would gradually increase by three months each year until 2037. Therefore, starting on January 1, 2038, the right to retirement would be obtained with 67 years of life and 15 years of retirement. And the right to early retirement at the age of 62 and 35. It is also important to stress that most European Union countries are thus adapting their system. And that second change, which is also interesting, is that because of the long-term insurance insurance insurance company that has 41 years of defacto training with 60 years of life can go into retirement full of what will certainly welcome the vast majority of those who are close to 60 years old and here they have about 41 years of work experience. It would be clearly good to consider these union remarks we received this morning. It is not true that there was no real public debate, unlike that, clearly there are elements which they praise but there are also elements that dispute. So it is safe until the second reading and these comments by the pensioners' unions in some parts can be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57822	Thank you very much. We have replicas. Dear Branko Vuksic, replic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57823	Dear colleague Cain, we should remind you from time to time, you said there was no pension for politicians, you probably thought there was no privileged pensions I guess and politicians would get when they retired at 65 full-time. But there are some, let's say you're one of those politicians who took advantage of a privileged pension, you froze one day and left and now you're selling morals here, I don't think it's an option. You, you didn't want to be around all the other politicians, and you didn't want to share your destiny with the people, so you said you wouldn't be as stupid as the whole people, so you took a privileged pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57824	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57825	You, Mr. Vuksic, have been selling us demagogy for two years as long as you sit in this House. There was no place of work without you raising your severance at the height of one big apartment. And I'd be happy to trade with my pension for you. All those who had conditions in Istria for that pension from politicians took advantage of it. And why would I be silly? Everyone, everyone, from Pauleta to Furi Radin, from Mr. Drandic to Delbianca, from I don't know Jadranka Katarinčić-Skrlj on. I think it is far better to take it under quotes and someone if he is 20 and more years in Parliament earned that pension than to work as a consultant for large capital and everything he could through that period work for and for himself simply embrace. Like you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57826	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57827	Thank you very much. In your discussion, you asked one question and one question. Your thesis was that there shouldn't be a pension social compensation and a question of where the problem is. For 80% of all pensioners, it's not pensions or social benefits, it's almost charity. And what's the problem? He's deep, layered and multiple. It's not that simple. But I'm just going to say a few indicators to give you a hint of where the problem might be. Why did social shockers all crack in Croatia? And why social distance has been tremendously increased in recent years. In the biggest years of the global crisis, in the history of the global crisis, entrepreneurs in Croatia achieved net profits of 34 billion and 53 million after tax last year. And that achieved 300, most of which 60% achieved 348 entrepreneurs, so-called. big ones. And only a few years before the big one was 930 and they made twice the net profit. There is no country in the world that has made such a net profit in terms of the crisis compared to a gross domestic product such as these large entrepreneurs in Croatia. There is no such land, 34 billion 553 million. And in 2009, at the beginning of the crisis, 26 billion kuna came true... Thank you, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57828	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It's the Club of Independent Representatives of the Honorable Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57829	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs and Mr. Minister with an associate. To continue this debate a little while ago, colleague Cain is leaving, so I'm gonna be a little personal here since '95. So the official, and the council, and the executive, and so on. I didn't take advantage of that possibility, so I didn't freeze for that one day, but I have to say something about politics. So I don't have the right to retire, I'm going to retire when everyone else does, but I haven't noticed that anyone, in any way, has ever been commended, I mean, that's what I'm saying, so we can continue this debate. The fact is that politicians must strive to share in their work the fate of the people in particular the pensioners, but it is also a fact that if they want to do their job to the end honestly, openly, without pressure, without answering anyone other than their conscience and working really for those who have chosen, then they would have to say in some way I will not be protected but would have to have some more certain age or future for those who will not be, who may end up on the market, looking for a job and then of course will depend on their pension but it is for some other debate. Mr. Minister, I believe that as I trust you, so are many of us sitting here, in some way frustrating this debate because we're talking about a new law, and it seems to me like we're spinning around in circles. For years we've been saying more or less the same thing, and in the meantime nothing for the better has changed. So the government I led was in a coalition with HSU. We parted at one point and I believe that Mr. Hrelja will also in the debates that come to confirm what is important to each government. It's hard. When we reach the pensioners and their positions and pensions and the amendments to the laws, then of course we always come up with the same questions, and we will not be able to provide the right answers as long as the relationship between employees and pensioners is as it is today means 1:1,25. We're almost 1:1, that's a system that no country can withstand in the long run. And I'm extremely concerned about how this system will look in 2, 3 or 5 years, because the data that we can find in the introduction of this bill, but I think that's the data that we talk about every time we get a budget, then anyone who represents a budget, every government representative and every finance minister here for this speaker says that the budget is fixed, that more than 80% of the budget is given and then referred to the percentage that goes to pensions. So here last year 35 billion, this year 36 billion, of which almost half-half, so a little more than 50% of the income and a little less than 50% we have to separate from the budget. And that's a question that we need to talk about, and that's a question that we should try about, but unfortunately, it's not going to happen, try to create any consensus that we can really reform the pension system that goes to the bone that's really going back and forth. The peace system is in difficulty, it is also a fact and only the growth of the economy, new employment which unfortunately is not in sight, new employment, job creation and the reduction of the unemployed can provide answers to the questions that we all want, means that we are all on the one hand, and on the other hand we are looking for answers whether we are in opposition or we are in power. These roles change, but questions remain the same. And yes, someone was already mentioned today when we changed this same law in 2010 then, the fact is, today's Prime Minister when we talked about the necessity of slowly increasing the age limit for retirement, Mr. Milanovic said, and that's how it is in the heat of political struggle, when we come to power we'll get it all back to the old, and we see that it's not like that. So the age limit is increasing and the age limit has to increase, so in all European countries, it's just going somewhere with more noise. Remember when President Sarkozy carried out that part of the reform and increased the age limit, as I recall 2 million people were on the streets of Paris. And that's now when we talk about increasing the age limit to 67 years gradually, but at 60 years especially for women, that would be the theme of colleagues and colleagues for the referendum. So we have had a referendum on this, or we are going to a referendum on the introduction of marriage into the Constitution and that it is the definition of a community of men and women, as if anyone in Croatia has ever banned marriage between a man and a woman and it does not appear in the law. But there's a referendum on this subject, for example. I don't think anyone's gonna start signing the signature, that colleague Zgrebec says it's hard to collect signatures. Maybe it would be good, maybe we should really do it to see what the citizens think about it. Personally and here, in the name of the club, both in consultations and with my colleague Bencic, we really think that 67 years of ministers and that it is necessary to think about it, these are the remarks and the Retirement Union, 67 years for women are really a lot, especially for some occupations, for example, teachers, teachers and so on. Why do I just mention women and especially women? Because women, employed women work at least twice or triple of men because every woman, a woman employed after her job, waits for a job in a house that is of course not valorized in any way and he does not enter the pension insurance system and he does not count in years to retire. And there are repeated occupations certainly have such occupations that commit to men. But I think this retirement of women at 67 needs to be reconsidered once more. Of course it's easy for us today to discuss it because it's going to happen once. When it does, when it all comes into effect in its fullness, many of us will be retired. Some of us won't be anymore, but it's good to look into the future and I think we should always think ahead. In Croatia, there is a lack of that view in the future. So we're very impatient, everything we change we want to change right now. The measures we introduce want to take effect immediately and it's hard for us to look at five, ten, let alone twenty years ahead and I think we should learn about it. So, plan for both 10 or 20 but also 50 years in advance. What's good, which we think is as good as the proposal in this first law reading is going into retirement without a pension for those who unfortunately retire due to bankruptcy, so because of huge difficulties and huge difficulties. The Institute of Minimum Pensions is also considered a good solution. It also needs to be possible to reward longer work for everyone, not just for some, for some categories. So, professor, doctors, etc. I think we should make it possible for longer work for everyone. It's a good provision for 40 years, so it's a full retirement internship. I think it's a fair solution. It's important to watch who worked and eventually contributed because whoever worked for 40 years no matter what he did, he did it. And here's what we think is good. However, I am also asking one question about the population of Croatian defenders, the disabled of the Homeland War. Mr. Minister, so what exactly was going to be announced was there was a variety of information about, the minister did not, for the pensions of the defense attorneys or the disabled. Therefore, there is a need to distinguish disability pensions, i.e. family pensions of disabled defenders, and who carry out pensions under special regulations and a question related to the so-called so-called “registration”. The lowest pension. It means the minimum pension institute that we founded in 2005 in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. So it's a pension for those defenders who reach the age of life and have no other conditions. The lowest pension is an institute that doesn't use a lot of defenders, and I'm curious whether this institute will survive in view of the difficulties we have with the state budget. And in the end, we support all those who demand a renegotiation of the right to deliver pensions through mail. It's our opinion that this should apply to the new pensioners, and that these old ones should remain as they were. As far as I know, this is both the opinion and the Retirement Union and some trade union centres and I think it's the same, but this whole bill of law for the Economic Social Council and I believe that the Government will put it on the Economic Social Council and that there will be a debate there. Otherwise, the public debate on this law was insufficient, too short, should have been more comprehensive. But maybe here's the time to take this second reading. Of course, it is a question of when the government will refer it to a second reading, so since there are some good solutions after the first reading, we will be restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57830	Thank you, too, Your Honor. We got a dozen replicas. The first replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57831	Dear colleague Kosor, I agree with your initial conclusion that politicians must share the fate of the people. That is why Croatian Labourers proposed a 21% reduction in government salaries to the Croatian government. You know how it went. They called us demagogues because we suggested it. Before my argument, your predecessor retaliated. I've never been a counselor, because smart advice doesn't need, a fool doesn't know how to use it. I used some severance money, but not from taxpayers, but from the employer I worked with. And to all of you and those who didn't take advantage of the praises, congratulations because you could use the law that was available to you but at that point, you felt that the moral question was more important than the material question, which doesn't mean that all those colleagues who took advantage of the law. No, and no one's ever said that. You said that the age limit in your debate would increase everyone's age and that we had to. So we follow those who increase. So how can we not follow in the prosperity of this land? Why, for example, do we not follow countries in an orderly state, in everything. We always say when we need to cut off workers, but that's what others do. When the price of gasoline increases, then he says but others have that kind of price, but they have three times less wages, but we can't see it. We've got double standards everywhere. We follow the criteria imposed by neoliberal capitalism and claim that this is the only possible solution. If that's the only thing, you know when there's no way out, when someone tells you that or nothing, that it's catastrophic. The world is in a moral crisis because I repeat, there has never been more profit than there has been in this time of five years of crisis. Therefore, only the workers suffered.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57832	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57833	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, of course, would like to point that out because I missed the speech. Those who took advantage of this possibility that the regulation provided them so they froze themselves, so they did nothing illegal and should always be stressed in order to avoid the impression that any of our colleagues had done anything contrary to the law or against the Constitution. Because it is also very important and important when we talk about the work of us as representatives or members of the government. So you can work but you can't work against the law. This when I said that others do, yes, I mean my opinion has always been and today it's not just about going into retirement, it's about everyday life. And now we have to work harder. So, we have to learn to work more, work if our hours are eight hours, then work for eight hours, work for the best we know. That sounds so demagogue but it's a fact. Therefore, we must do everything we can to earn our wages. And when I say that, then, of course, I'm talking about the representatives of those who are almost never there and the fact that a representative can spend four years somewhere else, he can spend four years in the Bahamas, and that'll be included in his retirement internship, right, and he'll get that salary all the time. So he doesn't have to come. Just because we sign up doesn't mean anything. So, the one who doesn't register or record once a month is nothing. It is all of course on the portal of the Croatian Parliament but it will not harm anyone. So that's what I'm talking about. We need to work harder, and it's a trend in general in the world to retire with a larger number of years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57834	Thank you very much. A new replica of respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57835	Thank you. So here's what you colleagues have mentioned is an idea like this to pass a referendum where we ask if we're ready for women to retire at 67 years of age? Of course the question is, how would you pass a referendum if you asked if you wanted women and men to retire at 67 years of age? Probably 90 and a few percent of Croatian citizens wouldn't be up for it. I agree with you, indeed, that in that exaggeration with these concepts of gender equality we actually went to a slightly violent equalization of age for both men and women for retirement. It's actually one, in my opinion, negative consequence for women of some processes whose support I'm not particularly. When it comes to raising the age-limit for retirement, then only the most developed European countries are raising that age-limit today. None yet from the so-called. Eastern bloc that belonged to Croatia, why? It is raised by those countries where the average age of life has grown and today it is significantly higher than in the Republic of Croatia. Let me remind you that the average age of men's lives at this point is about 73 years old. At 67 years of retirement, that man will on average be 6 years retired. Iceland, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark and similar countries that are raising the retirement age today have a significantly longer life span for their citizens. Therefore, and for longer periods of life in retirement. Therefore, it should be taken into account, of course, by 2030, and some of these will happen in Croatia, but it should be taken into account that countries in Europe today have such a short life span as Croatia does, and Croatia has not yet set out to raise that age for its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57836	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57837	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear colleague, when I spoke about the referendum, I said that there is no one, above all, who in the light of our discussions on referendums, that there is obviously no one here because I have at least never heard from anyone before, that even before we did, it means 2010, but even now, when we talked about going to retirement later to start signing or collecting signatures. And the question is, would you get enough, because first you need to collect enough signatures to call a referendum. And why did I talk more about women? Well, I think it's understandable and that you agree that women work more in principle. But what's a big injustice that we're facing today is that women have less wages, in principle, less wages for the same job, that's the fact, that's what all the research showed, and then, of course, on the trail of that and less pensions. On average, less pensions for the same jobs. So, less wages for the same jobs, then less pensions. Now, that's an injustice, and on that trail, I also mentioned 67 years for the retirement of women. But I absolutely support your efforts to protect men.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57838	Honorable representative Damir Cain and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57839	We have to agree but the foundation is this, at least the way I see it, after three, four, five, six terms if someone in this House or in the executive government doesn't have to, but you can also have one minimum of security that a man can come back after 20 years at least from where he came from and started. But it can't be done after 20 years. If you in these benches have shared the fate of those 20 or more years with this people, and I claim that there are such representatives in this House, if you haven't come to the state's apartment, if you haven't come to severance, if you haven't pulled it out publicly, if you haven't publicly turned it into private, and then put it in front of the public, then I think these people have to have one minimum security. At least to return to the same workplace. Because what's happening to us today? And it's also dangerous, let the debate take place mainly if the people in the executive office for 2 or 3 mandates were local or I don't know what. So what are they doing? Either after 2.3 mandates, they turn into sheiks, which is number one, or do they adapt everything to themselves all the time, and where do they end up? They end up as advisors directors in large companies. So then a man asks himself a question about who they've been working for all this time? Whether they worked for the people, whether they worked for the poor or worked for the capital and therefore for themselves. If I was 60, I wouldn't take advantage of it. But I also want to say this to everyone in Istria, everyone, everyone who had conditions, they took advantage of those who didn't speak for this pay phone, not one word. And then what? Selling demagogy to me can't be the ones who used everything in their private lives and who came as little sheiks in this House, and I don't mean anything to you. It's the most beautiful thing and you know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57840	The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57841	I did, Mr. President. I picked up the tablet. So there wouldn't be any confusion between my colleague Cain and I also think that you're all you have and everything you get because you've been working hard all these years. I remember my beginnings in this assembly when I was Vice-President of the Parliament in '96, and I'm going to say this for the first time, most of the sweat started on me when you came to the debate because you were ruthless in the criticism of the government and then of course I had to take office as chairman and you remember there were a lot of fights and it was pretty traumatic for me every time in those beginnings, and then I got used to it. So you worked without the rest, so you should do counsel. However, the representative and the minister working in this way means that he is not responding to anyone, not only to himself, that he does not use any infrastructure in particular, but rather to earn his salary that it is difficult if he remains without the mandate of the next and if ultimately he has to choose a pension he can hardly find, difficult, very difficult to be open and realistic. And I agree, MP in particular, and neither does the minister, but the representative can't be a rag where everyone wipes the floor. It is also a fact, however, that there always comes a moment when we must make personal decisions that are, of course, always observed in a political context, it is the same fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57842	Let me say in this situation, the protection of the independence of MPs in democratic societies is not for the sake of MPs but for their function of protection and the interests of the citizens they represent. Dear representative Vanja Posavec and her replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57843	I'd like to refer to your part of the debate when you're talking about a 67-year problem for women. I must say here, I believe that there have been discussions on this and on the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership, and I believe that you have also seen a report from the board where we board members have also asked the Ministry to conduct a site analysis. Namely, my personal opinion and most committee colleagues, and that's the fact that women in the textile industry, in factories, in the catering industry, are going to have a hard time with all those obligations they have as women, which is that mothers and wives are hard to really be able to do until 67 years of age, even mentioning you as teachers, raisers I don't think even they're so critical. I have to say that I worked here until recently at school that teachers love their work very much, so they don't go away so happily in retirement, but this part of the work is certainly problematic and certainly from the ministry of job analysis. And also, just to add to what you said at the beginning, I fully agree with it that very little is known in the public that there are no more privileged pensions and that we all and it's good that you emphasized that you should say this, namely I often meet people who have no idea that it's been abolished, we're all going to retire like everyone else and that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57844	The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57845	...that most of the public really doesn't know that preferential pensions have been lifted, so I'm going to use that term because they were also pensions under special regulations, but they were abolished for politicians. Most of the public, I think that every day we meet with comments in both written media and electronic media, those who are here and who are not there and who do nothing will again grab big pensions and laugh at us nicely. So I think there's more to talk about, but that pension here needs to be earned, I think you agree. I agree that we also think about certain interests that not only women do, so they are not only caterers but also men, it's hard to imagine really for me a particularly woman who works in catering with, say, 66 years of age, all day long, especially how it is with employers where work must be done very often regardless of working time, and working time cannot be over-questioned, salesgirls also mean all those who spend their working time standing on their feet. So I believe that the minister and the ministry will take all of our remarks for consideration and for a second reading because this is important because no legal provision will be able to limit what is happening in real life. We need to bring laws into line with the real lives of people.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57846	Dear Representative Boris Kovacic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57847	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, ma'am, when you said the pension system was in difficulty, you realized that the only growth in the economy and employment could be the factor that could significantly affect the improvement of the pension system. And that's for sure that's what we all agree on. That's what the government is talking about, and that's what the minister is talking about, but I'm putting demographic policy measures in the same rank. But that's not the part I'm not on, and I don't want to replicate. I also want to look back on this referendum issue of yours and 67 years and differences, which is what you said about women working double. And that's kind of true. In doing so, surely by targeting that part of the work that women do primarily in the household and in the house. But I also believe that you know that, that things change here. And what my generation didn't do in the house and in the household my children do. Well, your son, too, who you often boast about, congratulations, please, I believe he'll do so. How's the family gonna look, what's the family gonna look like in 2030 because they're targeted years? Well, it's gonna change, isn't it? And it's going to change a lot. Well, we have to consider that, too. I'm sure if it's enough, I know there's still maybe an ending, and there's a family where that change isn't going to go so fast, but we're changing. I won't mention that you won't transfer sarcasm to me but I'm really not a sarcastic woman and I've been alive for a while. Here's Mrs. Sausage was saying, we really have a profession that they want to do. Because you know retirement isn't exactly a good solution. I have a right to say it already because my habitat tells me that I'm close to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57848	The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57849	Yeah, it's true, women on average live longer. My theory is because we work harder. So I recommend it. I won't mention my son, I don't brag, and I won't mention him because he'd be angry in this context. I'm not as optimistic as you are that the new generations of men, so our sons and our grandchildren, will better deploy that burden. I'm afraid that women will continue to work twice and twice as often, so the greatest responsibility we have for our parents raising sons is to raise them in this spirit that you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57850	Respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović and her replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57851	Here's a colleague of yours who's been replicating the subject, so I'm going to join in. And I think it's important that you mention it, so maybe it's not so far, at this point it seems like a problem, but, therefore, leaving men and women on equal terms. It is, in effect, the obligation of the legislator to equalise the working age of men and women by order and the Constitutional Court. They say and call, all men and women are equal before the law. That's right. And it should be supported. But what needs to be done throughout one period, I think you will agree with that and where the Constitutional Court left the legislator that period in which it will happen. But what it is for us to do, here's something he's already said about it, but it can't be left to the will or will of an individual or a particular family. The state has a duty here to equalise equal opportunities for women and men. Hard women still break through public and political life, but a more even burden on family life should be achieved as the Constitution says both parents are responsible for raising children. The same is true of our family law. And I believe that soon the time will come not only as a possibility as it is already being prepared in the family law but also as women have to go on maternity leave it would soon be as one first step in a more balanced pursuit of the burden of family life when men would necessarily have to go on parental leave as in the countries of Western Europe and we are now in the European Union, so they must go on parental leave. That just contributes to protecting the family. Strengthening the economic strength of a woman also contributes to protecting the family. Her disenfranchisement that we've been following. It led to a setback on that plan. [[Thank you very much, dear colleague.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57852	Thank you. The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57853	Yes, right, strengthening women certainly in this economic sense is extremely important. However, I also pointed out in the debate regrettably that we meet daily, and this also says statistics that women are for the same jobs, just before I said so, very often equally educated, equally capable, even often more educated and more capable and for the same job less paid. So we must further regulate this through the Labour Act. And then of course they have fewer pensions because if they're less paid then they'll have fewer pensions. It is true that the state must ensure that we are declaring equality, I see it through here really achieving all our programmes important for the demographic future of Croatia, meaning building infrastructure, often insufficient number of kindergartens, here are kindergartens which unfortunately close because the city does not have enough money to pay for three breeders etc.. So it's also the duty of the state. But I would certainly extend that to a local level. So both cities and municipalities and counties have the same obligation to protect the family and build and strengthen the infrastructure to help families and then, of course, through that and above all, women.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57854	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDSSB Club and the respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57855	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with co-worker and fellow MPs. Today, we have before us a Bill on Pension Insurance that actually tried to correct certain illogicalities, i.e. indifference and irregularities, and it is a bit futuristic, given that certain articles and articles of this law refer to the year 2031 to 2037. So... What is said here today is almost a full debate and the facts are substantiated all and on all sides, but what is most significant is that the sentence in this material says that the amount of pensions in the Republic of Croatia, totaling around 25 billion kuna, is 10% of GDP, as someone liked to say GDP. [[The speaker speaks English.]] So what we do from that sentence is quite clear. It is also clear that around 20 billion kunas are made by contributions to pension insurance, and those 15 and some more billions of kunas, so 35 total goes from the state budget. The state budget also has its own attitude towards GDP, so if GDP is growing then pensions will grow. It's all very clear. How can GDP grow? So as someone has already spoken here, so by increasing the real sector, by new employment, by new investments, by using European funds, etc., which are available to us, by full use. So Croatia that would go towards improving the situation, extracting from the crisis, increasing GDP, not at that rate of 0.7%, 1%, but a much higher rate would certainly lead to a balance in the pension fund. In doing so, the number of employees is very important, so it grew relatively faster than the rate of those who retire. That relationship that was, as Mr. Minister said before the war in '88. In the year, it was 4:1, the number of persons employed by the number of pensioners was to say fantasy. He was great and he wasn't there and there shouldn't have been any trouble filling the Pension Insurance Fund. Now that relationship is barely 1.2.1 in favour of the number of employees. The number of unemployed we know what it is, every day we can count, how the day goes, so there are thousands more unemployed. And now this futuristism that we're talking about, which I said in the first sentence, which is in 2031 when it's going to be retirement at 67 and for women and men, is completely equal to that of the fighting rights that women and demands equality, etc., and that the second shift is true and as someone said, notices, colleagues are no longer, that our young people are much better at their households today than I was, here I am sorry to say I didn't help my wife as much as my sons help today, not only to help but also carry their households in all those jobs that are needed. As it will be in 2031 I do not know, we will see how time will pass and how time will pass and what habits it will bring in family relations, etc. When we talk about those 67 years in 2031, God forbid what they say we are and live at that time, now I am 61, and on the Croatian average I won't be alive, so I won't even remember it, then on page 5, in the basic issues that are governed by the proposed law, the allegations that the countries have already made such changes. So it says that it was done by Norway, which is not a member of the European Union and Iceland, which is not a member of the European Union plus 7 countries that are members of the European Union, which are Finland, France, Poland, Germany, Italy, Great Britain and Ireland. It is also true that the average number of years of life in these countries is far above. When I say far away, these figures may not be greater than 5 or 6 years compared to Croatia, but when you take that retirement year 67 is then 5 or 6 years of income and pension at that time is relatively large. So using the pension you earned, earning, 6 years or 16 years or 15 isn't the same thing. This is how it turns out by the current kind of thing, if we look at the current data, and Mr. Maric spoke about the data, so there are those professional, economic, social data and analysis accounts, so actually what my colleague here at the Parliament, Mr. Vinkovic, from college to desk, and from retirement to grave. So we somehow defined a few months ago this status which today is actually in Croatia in force. What is commendable and cannot be spared from the good intentions of the legislator, i.e. the legislator, we are legislators and Mr. Minister is the Proposer, is that it stimulates the achievement of full-time employment, full-age pensions, for example in the definition that the right to full-age retirement is proposed because of the long-term insurance for an insurance company that has 41 years of training, so insurance, payment of contributions and 60 years of life. I don't think this 60-year-old life needs to be defined. Because if a person is 41 years old or 40 years of employment and pays a pension contribution, then several years of his age are not necessary. If someone does it in 58 they say he really deserved it. ... That's another thing. [[You can't hear it.]] It's also good that what I've been saying has been updated, which has ceased to exist, and that's that it's prescribing the category again, to say the part-time work with the remaining workability. So, someone works four hours a day with what's left of it, in the event of his disability or a reduction in life and work activity. Or redistribute to another workplace. It's gone. If that was not the case, so there was no other job, the employer writes a certificate and leaves for an early retirement for a year. It's good that there's this law and that thing I kind of said I'd come back again. We know that in that former state there were such categories, so there were so-called. the third category of disability where the insurance company changed jobs for the one that was too difficult for its disability, so it needed another job that was easier or that second category of work per four hours a day in the same workplace. And the first category of so-called. where the insurance company went to a definitive pension, regardless of the number, to the number of years of service and to the number of years of payment of pension insurance contributions. So somehow we have, and we have these to say retro views where we have returned partially to what was meant to be in 2031 to 2037. Most of the time, I believe that this relationship, therefore, amounts to the total amount of the weight of the financial mass for pensions of 10% of the gross social product if it changes in favour of the increase of the gross social product that it is no more than 300, God forbid it is 450 billion kuna. In that case, it would certainly be easier for pension insurance in connection with these payments. And there's something else I wanted to say. It would be very good and God forbid it was in this period until 2031 or at least during that period. If the average pensions in the Republic of Croatia reached, say, 7 000 kuna, 1000 or 900 euros. Would we then say so sharply notice those who are 170 000 pensions under special conditions. If pensions for 40 years of work, after 40 years of work would be 1000 euros on average. But no, they're much lower, that average is much lower, so then it's clear that there are when the house is empty there are always thorns in the house. That's right. That's the way it is in our country. Because the budget stands out more than 15 billion kuna for the pension fund. And when the house is empty, when that budget is in the deficit as it is in the deficit, then we're all rotting, and we're all nervous, here we have all kinds of different and replicas and speeches that I can really say here and maybe, personally, a little bit and a little bit and a little bit of awkward and uncomfortable, even though everyone has the right to say who they want, today is democracy. Demographic policy measures, too, have been mentioned. Yes, at this rate which today this real sector is standing, therefore does not go forward, does not grow gross social product leads to the fact that due to the rate and the lack of employment of young people from Croatia is evident, obvious, obvious and some evaluations and there are not exactly Croatian Statistics Institute, the State Statistics Office is missing but the estimates range from around 10,000 people who leave each year highly educated or with higher education as they used to speak go abroad but also with other educations. And we're all these young people who went to school here and paid for it and cost that schooling. What a demographic picture of the Republic of Croatia will be in 2031, the forecasts are pessimistic. I wouldn't want to believe them. But unfortunately, given the developments that are happening in society, I'm afraid it will come true. That's what the demographics of the Republic of Croatia and the professors of demographics talk and talk about every day. In any case, this bill has very positive elements and we welcome them. Given these futuristic items, it's hard to predict. Perhaps in the next term, or whoever is in the next term or any other term of office, we will seek to amend this pension law. And he's changed 16 times already. So it's no wonder that in 22 years, the law changes 16 times. It means every year and three months we change the law, we supplement it, and so on. As future meetings of the Croatian Parliament will discuss or decide I think it will depend on both the current situation in the country, about God's increase in gross social product, give God more employment and the rest of young people and finally the movement of Croatia forward. So there are positive elements, and what's uncertain, and mainly for 2031, we'll still be discussing it for sure, and this High House will meet hundreds of times by 2031 and decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57856	Thank you, too. Let's go to the replicas. The first replica and respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57857	Thank you. Well, here's a colleague of mine who didn't get a lot of touch on the idea of, like, a minimum guaranteed pension, and here's the guy who called me and now he's saying something like this. So there are 21 years of employment in the Republic of Macedonia, 9 years of employment in Macedonia, and there has been a calculation of pensions below the minimum pension, and now that pension is rounded up to 1200 kuna. Why? The employer applied him to a minimumer, when he was his own employer applying for the same minimum amount, from Macedonia he has some kind of negligible amount and now the man asks why my pension is $1200, and these days I read in the paper that social assistance will be 2800 kuna for those who did not work? And a man really has a right. I think, of course, that doesn't apply, probably, but the headlines are buzzing because social aid is going to be 2800 kuna. He asks, and why have I worked for 30 years and I have 1200 kuna as a minimum pension? And on the other hand, we see in this amendment to the law, I don't know, so it's going to be harmonising, or raising pensions to former JNA members, and if they're suspended, let their pensions be adjusted, but this is for those who were members of the JNA by 8 October of '91. It's not, it's an unacceptable position to me. October 8, '91. It has been a year since the Croatian state was established, since long ago all of the JNAs who wanted to join the Croatian Army and that we are now gravitating those and raising their pensions that remained in JNA until 8 October '91. I don't think it's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57858	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57859	Thank you very much. The colleague is a 2900 kuna minimum social compensation, so it is 2900 minimum social compensation at the level of gross minimum personal income in the Republic of Croatia. Indeed, there is a case in which I suppose the minister will respond first of all, not that I answer you, but the case is symptomatic and typical of here when we compare social welfare and the Social Care Act that we discussed yesterday, but we didn't bring it in, but the day after tomorrow is the vote on it, so most probably will vote on that supplement. It would be good if, very well, between that difference between the pension of 1200 kuna and the amount of social care from that part of the social man had a grant of 1700 kuna to settle it. That would be a solution, for example. And as for the former JNA members, I have my opinion on it, and I don't think I should be taking it out in public since '45. 68 years have passed now, 68 years. ... Yeah, these are JNA, World War II, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] As for members of the JNA, it would be good if we had a number of those who were in the JNA and not only in the JNA but also in the secret services of Yugoslavia today have pensions. So, ex-sportsmen and all those who are on the list today, and anywhere, we're never that list, but the number and amount of pensions they get. So we also abolized all those for Vukovar who contributed and were active in the loss of the city of Vukovar and killed people in Vukovar, sang songs as they sang, were abolized, and then today we have a problem like we have and the government doesn't solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57860	Thank you very much. A new replica of the respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57861	Thank you very much. You spoke about the futuristic approach and some of the benefits of this law, and there are also good sides, and there is futuristism. But having a vision and being far-sighted isn't the same thing. Far-reaching means that something can occur far away as it seems to be, in 20 years, new 350 thousand jobs that we won't even have people for. But far-sighted means you can't see anything for a while, you don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow. So you don't see that tomorrow there'll be 1,000 new unemployed. And limits the sight. And you wondered what would happen tomorrow? Same thing, it's only gonna get worse. You already know that. And you were wondering how economic activity could be launched? Well, not with access to fiscal policy that pushes the tax forward as it resembles aggression. And with a credit monetary policy or institution that it implements that reminds UNPROFOR because it is not interested in what is happening. So it can't be run with such two policies. And that some do well, regardless of such a policy, show data for 2012 the net profit has paid more than the total pensions in Croatia. But the vast majority is in a terrible situation, and that's only because the vast majority of all gains and profitability goes abroad. Croatia is also conducting modern economic self-colonyism with this kind of economic policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57862	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57863	Thank you very much. Mr. Maric is always with you on the same wavelength, there is really no indication that this government is based on this optimism about the employment of 350 thousand people. So there are no objective, real, real indicators and the fact that this is based on. And that, therefore, a small number of people, i.e. legal entities, achieved 35 billion kuna in 2012 so just as much as the pension fund is for one year, it is really a fact that we should think about and not only think but also act. But thanks to the very elements of the guidelines of those who lead fiscal policy, we know who it is and who is responsible for me to say it to both the CNB and all the other banking sectors. Well, that's exactly why we haven't had that Consumer Credit Act in two weeks. And Mr. Linic then attacked the banks very sharply, we don't have two weeks. Why? They're consulting. With who? Well, with the banks. It's trying to get past what we would say down in Herzegovina and Dalmatia that banks get a little damaged, but still to do something to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That way we can't decide who we're going to work for.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57864	Thank you very much. A new replica of the respected representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57865	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'll look back on what you colleagues of Grubisic have been saying about the futuristic approach of this government. Namely, the futuristic approach shows enough data that are comparable over the past two years. The government led by the SDP Kukuriku coalition predicted a growth of plus 2% of GDP in 2012 so that was last year. At the end of that year, there was a minus 2% drop in GDP. This year they predicted plus 1.8%. According to the current data that is very clear, you can check for all financial agencies that monitor the movement that monitors economic growth, all suggest that this decline will be at least 0.5 and most likely between 0.7 and 0.8%, so it will be minus 0.8%. The government still persists in the budget rebalancing insists that there will be no more growth of 1.7% but that there will be a growth of 0.2%, and there lie to us 10.20 days ago we have a little more than a month until the end of the year where we will certainly not achieve economic growth but will again be at least 0.7%. And now you can imagine, this same government predicts that from 2040 to 2050 we will have a shortage of 375 thousand workers. I think they're really chasing the pluses and the minuses. If they continue to lead this Croatia by the end of the term of full term, then for the next two years we will have everything they say they will be in plus, they will actually be in negative, that is. Their forecast today will have a minus or an unemployed 375 thousand tomorrow they assure us that we will miss 375 thousand people.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57866	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57867	Well, I was talking about that 2031, but it is clear that it is difficult to predict in this situation a confused one when the government is talking about an increase in GDP and the world's factors are talking about a fall and the EU is talking about a fall in GDP, the people remain confused, citizens are not aware of who to trust anymore. However, I read this morning, although I do not like to quote in a newspaper cover that our minister Linic is in charge of a new billion and a half dollars in the United States at an interest rate of 6.2%. As far as I know, the IMF to talk to and negotiate with as other countries from our environment and other countries negotiate and even five years ago have been talking and have contributed to the stabilisation of some countries in our environment they offer loans of 2% to 3% of interest. However, it is obvious that it is popular to conduct politics without the IMF listening. So it's better to raise a loan with 6% interest and implement the policy you want than to submit to some norms that are also the economic IMF. We'll see how it'll be next year, but in a month we'll see the situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57868	Dear Representative Branko Vuksic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57869	Mr. Grubisic, you said just before that Mr. Linic was in charge of a few billion or a billion. It wasn't Mr. Linic in charge, but Mr. Linic in charge of us, our children and our grandchildren. So that's a big difference. God forbid he's in charge, they wouldn't despair. The second thing is your demographic forecast of seeing your demographic forecast that black is correct. And what do we do to make that prognosis not black? What do we do to make sure we're not getting smaller and smaller? In the '50s they say so much will be less I don't know in 100 years they say we're almost gone. We increase VAT to children's food, do nothing to get young people hired, so others need our young staff training, and we don't need them, we put them with 10 grand on the labour market. We still have a foreign exchange clause on loans for the apartment, that young people can't raise, who's going to go to the bank today and get a loan to buy an apartment for five years to take away his apartment and what he paid off went into the wind. How do we keep those young? As a colleague said before me, the young will go out to America to various Americas to go to Australia to start a family and stay there. I don't know how they need young educated people. That's the question. Yeah, demographic prognosis is black because we don't do anything. It's the same as knowing it's going to rain and not opening an umbrella, but getting wet and saying how I got wet, it doesn't open an umbrella and you have an umbrella. We have measures to protect you right. But we're protecting the banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57870	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57871	Yes, my colleague, I agree with you that this is banking, and I would say this telecommunications system is protected as a personal medium. But I wanted to tell you about how some other countries run demographic politics. Take the example of France. I see that my colleague and he knows and understands and therefore mentioned demographic politics and demographics to say that the Republic of Croatia is restored. France that fought and suffered great losses in the wars of the Napoleons, the Paris commune, World War I, World War II, which it did. So it is not a matter of some sense to prescribe or rewrite what makes one other Member State, a member of the European Union, for its citizens, to stay in France, to rejuvenate the nation, to increase the number of inhabitants in it. So why don't we ever mention it? After all, I have to mention here, I will not advertise anyone but there was, perhaps and still exists in the register of Croatian parties, the Croatian party of young people who had their own programme. I read that program because I got a flyer. It's a great program. One measure is a free kindergarten starting from 6 months of birth and beyond. That's what France has, that's what Slovenia has. So, lands from our close surroundings. So you're freeing your parent the possibility that he can already work, your mother, your father, it doesn't matter to anyone but if he is, especially since the kindergarten is free. So up to seven years of life, your child can be taken care of. It's help. And what are we talking about here on maternity leave, about a height of 20, 30 kuna up, down, so that's not a measure. This is a real measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57872	Dear Representative Boris Kovacic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57873	Thank you again, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Representative, when you talked about both pension system problems and demographic policy, the demographic state of the nation, and what it's going to look like in 2030 or in the future I want to say it's not the state of today, so it's not yesterday, is it? And now we're all a little surprised. And on the other hand, when it comes to the pension system and so many changes, it's not surprising either. Because you know when it comes to the pension system, at least two bells came up. One back in the '70s when it rang the golden home of the pension system. And secondly, they say at least so many better acquaintances in the 1980s not only in Yugoslavia but also in Croatia but also in Europe and in the '90s they were very much ringing at the alarm and we are talking about these beginnings of the insurance and pensioner relationship 3:1 to come here today for data from the ministry 1.23:1. The other night in the stands of Zagreb's lawyers 1.21:1, these are the projections. So it hasn't been since yesterday. And I'm sure this government, with respect and social aspect, has made social sensitivity and economic opportunities because today we're talking about the pension system law, pension care, so it's made a written paper that's the only way to get it out today. That's how I look at the problem. And you didn't answer Mr. Matusic This government doesn't lie, this government doesn't lie. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57874	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57875	Thank you very much. I don't know if she's lying, it's going to show up real quick and it's in the elections soon whether she's lying or not. And how the people feel after four years of your reign. But what I was going to say is that, I would say according to the plan of the black hand, the plan is being realized, so one, now you're going to say it's a conspiracy theory, but actually the biological destruction of the Croatian people. '45. In a few days, 300 thousand Croats were killed by the Yugoslav authorities against the Geneva conference. '62. A business reform has been declared and 500 thousand Croats have gone to Western Europe to work on temporary work. That's what it was called. How many of those have returned? Maybe now a little something retired when they left and some came back but most of them didn't. And neither does my uncle who lives in Groningen at Insbruck's. '71. The year when, when it was Croatian Spring, many went into emigration, there some were killed and some stayed forever, some came back, and here they ended up unfortunately as the late Zvonko Busic, his soul rested, here's how he ended up. So, one systemically and no government in the Republic of Croatia has worked on this problem of demographic reconstruction since we received our rule in Croatia. It's not yours, especially yours or not HDZ's. None. They don't listen to demographic professors, not just professors, but also the data coming from the state statistical office and from the demographics professors from all the economic institutes and colleges in the country. No, you don't listen to knowledge or brains and we're really getting smaller and smaller. And how we'll bear the burden of retirement insurance in '31. For years I've been dear to God knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57876	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas and the answer to the replica. The Honorable Minister on behalf of the Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57877	I hope that the distinguished MPs read the Law and Article 185, so we can just solve the JNA dilemma. Therefore, Article 185 provides for the re-determining of pensions to former JNA members who in Croatia, the Republic of Croatia have hired and acquired the property of the insurance company and have therefore obtained the right to retire. In order to determine the amount of pension or to establish a pension base, those insurance companies shall include, under these applicable rules, a pension internship but no salaries made in the former JNA. By letter and by number, it is 573 citizens of the Republic of Croatia who enjoy retirement, who have made themselves available to the Croatian state, but have not entered the Croatian Army and those 573 citizens of the Republic of Croatia have pensions that, 74 of them have pensions of less than 700 kuna and we are only correcting the injustice done by that law. This means that they are listed in their pension, as well as in all those who were members of the JNA, who entered the Croatian army and then made a pension. So we are not talking about any members of JNA who have left Croatia, so those who have made themselves available to the Republic of Croatia, but have not entered the Croatian army. It is 573 members of the JNA who were in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57878	Thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It's the HSU club and the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57879	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I'd like to say that we all remember what we have ahead of us. We have before us a proposal for a new law on pension insurance. It is only one part of the entire Croatian social system. Why did I point out about retirement insurance? Here in this law all the rules and rights lie on the contributions of workers throughout the years and the creation and long-term creation of rights. So I'd like to ask everyone who put HSU in my mouth this morning and possibly me in the sense that we were trading something, that I categorically reject it. You'll see after my presentation that we and the promoter have some disagreements, but we'll also praise good things, but this law is not the holder of pension reform, and it can't be, and I think that here in this assembly everyone understands and the reform would be if we had a police fund in the Ministry of the Interior, if we had a defense fund at the Ministry of Defense and if these categories that were all in the pension system were all for themselves and then you'd know exactly where they were being financed. We have a whole pension system here and it takes a lot of time to understand all the dismembering. Of course, the value of this bill and the legal text contained in it and the amendments and additions of the current law so far will be much easier for practitioners to apply. From the point of view of the pension system, this bill introduces some new pensions, so on. the full age pension referred to in Article 33(4), and the retirement pension for the long-term insurance referred to in Article 34, the temporary disability pension referred to in Articles 57 and 58 and the minimum pension referred to in Article 90; First, as regards full age pension, it was introduced into the bill after the previous consultation procedure with the interested public and after the debate was held on the economic and social council and before the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It should be noted that the full age pension does not exist in the Croatian pension system and it is inserted inside because all retirement pensions are, and she is 15 years old and 65 years old and she is 25 years old and 65 years old and she is 45 years old and 65 years old, all of them are old pensions. So there aren't exactly elements to introduce a category of full-age retirement, unless there's something statistical about it, that it's a pension above a certain internship, but there's no valid reason to introduce it unless it's some other purpose that I haven't been able to really figure out. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. Why? That's because retirement at the age of 60 and 41 is always an early retirement, but this law brings two newspapers that we praise and that we advocate, that we have two early retirement pensions that have no pensions. This is the one with 41 years of internship and this second in the current article 1 of Article 36, if someone ended up at the Employment Service because of the loss of an employer, there was two years, looking for an active job, and if the Institute declared him unemployed then he could go to early retirement without a pension. So we welcome these two institutes, in any case we appreciate them positive, only they do not belong to Article 34, but they belong safely to Article 36, because we cannot change some principles. Then we have an article 57, a temporary disability pension and a new disability-based right, and will be achieved by persons who are long-term unemployed after a professional rehabilitation, and have completed a certain age, i.e. After professional rehabilitation was trained for another job, i.e. occupation. The point of purpose and the existence of this provision is raised. In addition to all the care of the unemployed, this provision sends a message on the ineffectiveness of professional rehabilitation in pension insurance because it is obvious that many of the rehabilitated cannot find their place on the labour market, we must admit, not even the other unemployed who are not beneficiaries of pension rights. So here I'm not going to say we're against that solution, but we are, we have a serious dilemma about whether it will lead to the effect we expect. Furthermore, we are going to the category of minimum pension that is not a new right. In fact, we had a minimum pension in the old Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act until 1999. After that, we have the lowest pensions to be more precise, because the lowest pension depends on years of internship and is multiplied by a certain coefficient, so we have a lot of the lowest pensions that really depend on the insurance company's internship. So here is the proposal to reintroduce a minimum pension that is essentially the same as the lowest pension just changing the coefficient, not to pay the coefficient of 0.97% but to the current value of the pension, which means that the minimum pension that is actually the lowest pension would be increased by 3.2% but for all those pro futuro. It means futures, not backwards. Now, we have this one problem of principle. The basic principles of the pension system are therefore reciprocity and solidarity, but no less important principles are justice and equality. Here we come to a new inequality. Namely, new users of this so-called. the social protection categories of the lowest pension or, tomorrow, the minimum pensions, the new beneficiaries will be in a more favourable position than the old ones, which from the legal point of view can be a problem to bring down this law. I must remind myself that all the time in the political action of the Croatian party of pensioners has corrected these inequalities. This was the case in 2007 when all the users of the lowest pension compared to their internship leveled by law, per year of internship. I must also say that it would be fair to deal with, say, the pensions of spouses who together have 80 or 70, 75 years of internship, so one after 2 years dies, and the survivors have the right either to their pension or to 80% of the deceased if they are larger. I think it would be wise to engage here instead of here in some way without criteria increasing the lowest pension. Because I remember until 1999 we had a minimum pension that was tied to a property censorship unlike where the property censorship has been missing all these years since 1999. So, in a way, I think we're going a little bit into false solidarity here. I don't mind raising all pensions. But I don't think correcting a mistake by making a new one is very good. Furthermore, Articles 33 and 35 of the bill suggest increasing age limits for retirement and early retirement. It is here to say that legal practice has not yet been found to pass a law that has a 17-year-old delay. So it has a 17-year delay because the legal rules in this law will only start to apply for 17 years. I think we've had time for this, and I think we've had time to analyze the benefits of working hours and to analyze the creation of a list of jobs where we're sure that both workers and workers won't be able to live for 65 years and that this measure doesn't need to be rushed. We in Croatia are foreigners of pensioners or the entire pension Corps, and I think the labour Corps is also against such an early increase in age for retirement. And yet I repeat, we have no legal practice that has passed a law with a delay of 17 years. We have Article 80(1) and (2) of the proposed bill which we highly appreciate the efforts made by the proposer to separate that part of the pension based on contributions and part of the pension under special regulations. It is ours, we would like to know that truth, but it is our duty to say that it is very difficult in some activities because some activities are defined only by special regulations so that they may not even achieve a pension in the years in which they have implemented it under the general rules. And there will be some problems we hope to overcome. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with The bill provides for a different way of determining the current value of pensions and different alignment with economic developments compared to pensions achieved under the general rules for these under specific rules. I just have to point out this fact that 75,000 pensions under special regulations are below 3400 kuna, that 56,000 pensions are less than 3000 kuna by special regulations so we don't impeach them to a pillar of shame. 18000 pensions under special regulations are less than 2000 kuna and 3000 pensions are less than 1000 kuna. I don't think these pensions should be left without coordination and that they're going to have to find a combination of rights here. In order not to be too critical, I have to say that the good things that we are for this law, for further development of these rules, are early retirement without pensioning 60-41 and in cases of bankruptcy formulas of harmonisation 70-30 for larger parameters. Although we are introducing a third harmonisation for the first time in 2015, the possibility that pensioners can work half the time by working without freezing pensions is particularly important not only for our citizens here in Croatia but also for those who are retired here but then went to Italy to do something that they do not have to freeze their pension but can simply increase their internship tomorrow and achieve a proportionate part of their pension and abroad because it is a contribution to their social security and social security of their families. What, of course, is good with some reserves, and stimulation for longer stay in the world of work. That's probably going to make my colleague more elaborate. And what they could not accept, and these are articles 142 and 153, the submission of the report to the Croatian Parliament is abolished. I think it's inadmissible because it's a public institution that has to report its work. If, as I completely disagree with this here, 17 billion are given out of the state budget, then this must be discussed here. If the minister, and has, visited all Croatian Pension Insurance Institute facilities, and I am sure we would agree that at this point it takes a billion kuna to train the headquarters of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute to be adapted to the needs of its users because you have a flat building, unedited buildings, buildings that fail inadequate on the second, third floor where people can't go without elevators and a lot of other things. Not to mention the villa... in Pula that cannot be guarded. I think that we have the right obligation and responsibility for such an important social security system for citizens to discuss here in the Croatian Parliament and ask that this provision remain to be adopted here in the Assembly by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57880	Thank you, too. We'll do some replicas. The first replica, respected representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57881	Thank you, Mr. President. I certainly do not deny you your right and the fact that you represent one part of the retirement population, that is completely unquestionable. But I'm going to say that the one other part that you obviously don't represent came here today in front of the Parliament and shared flyers on this bill and clearly said that this law is bad and discriminatory. Well, you should talk to them, too. Of course, you've also shown some disagreements with this bill, but it seems to me that this government has been in a situation today that we've come to a situation where there's been a questionable pension payment for the next month. Why? In early October, we were assured here by the finance minister that the Croatian state would not be in debt until the end of this year. That was early October. Now a few days ago, Minister Linic owed us $1 billion and 750 million in U.S. interest at 6.20%. 1.4% more unfavourable interest than Romania had, Romania not to talk about other countries. So it was really obviously a matter of saving salaries and pensions by the end of this year. And then our SDP colleagues assure us that the Croatian government is not lying. Well, we can say don't tell the truth, if that's what you want. It's probably closer, isn't it? They're not telling the truth. They're not lying. They're not telling the truth. Therefore, it is that reforms are not really implemented and that real structural reforms really need to be made. Apparently, there's no courage or knowledge that this government does. That's what this is about. And finally, very often these reforms are mentioned as mantra. There is another expression in Dubrovnik that has nothing to do with the mantra in that language, which says don't mantrate us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57882	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57883	Well, colleague Matušić, I'm glad you set up this dilemma because look at these people who were in front of the Parliament this morning are our partners of HSU but act completely on their own. We also communicate with them as part of the National Council for Retired People and as part of the Coordination of Retired Associations, we are often together but we do not, like some other systems, give lessons, we do not limit them as civil society to fight for what they consider to be right. It's their right. I will be part of my speech in part of my speech and my debate is contained and part of their rights. There's no dilemma. We agree with something, something we disagree with, but they have total freedom of action. These are our colleagues and colleagues and friends and colleagues and we spend a lot of time considering the possibility of improving the pension system, unfortunately if you go wrong and if you give some rights very hard you can go back to the right track. You know, I mentioned a family pension here, and the Germans have it, and the Italians have it, we don't have it because we've stepped up the social protection category through the lowest pensions, and we've left where it would be fair for us to make different arrangements for family pensions by the amount of employment and contributions. I wouldn't talk about the budget, he's very important, but I wouldn't speculate right now. I mean, I want to concentrate exclusively on the Pension Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57884	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Hrg and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57885	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, you said that all rights lie with contributions over the years of internship and I agree absolutely with you that this provision on early retirement pensions is and is just based on that fact and it is absolutely acceptable and desirable. But what I wanted was just a little bit to comment on my colleague... was just before one part of it and said you mentioned that consulting with an interested public was carried out. So really this morning, at the entrance to the Assembly of the Croatian Retired Union, which you say is a partner, but that everyone acts independently, we can make 8 remarks, which you seem to me in your debate, and you didn't specifically mention. So maybe here's because you represent and represent the HSU party and that population that maybe a little bit further explain that part of their demands how justified they really are, as far as they're not, since you're not specifically instructed, and you said that the public debate was conducted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57886	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57887	I did not take a closer look at these demands from colleagues of Hrg because the 15-minute limit is 15 minutes. If we're talking about the law, the principles and the concrete remarks, then I can't talk about this other one. But I'm sure my colleagues and colleagues will take part in an individual debate and say these things. Let's just say we don't get along 100%, so the Retirement Union is demanding that the second pillar be abolished. We assume we have this political responsibility towards younger people here in Croatia and if we are to advocate it then we must have a precise analysis of where this leads us and the calculations and projections to decide on such a big step. I'm not saying that they may be wrong but I don't want to play to the expectations of young people in Croatia who expect from that second pillar that from two pensions I could have more than just one pension. So it still takes time, and I wouldn't support it so revolutionaryly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57888	The Honorable Vice President of Dom Milorad Batinic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57889	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, when you spoke about a new right to early retirement for an insurance company which, after the bankruptcy, means the company went bankrupt and has the right to early retirement I have not heard, and I believe that you may be in favour of that kind of same, namely bankruptcy is one category in an economy that is simply in a large number of companies. But there's a category of technological surplus, same conditions, three, four, five years at the Bureau, hard to hire, and I'm curious about what you think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57890	Here we will hear an opinion in response to the replica of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57891	Thank you very much. I wanted to express myself vividly, so I said bankruptcy. Of course, the law should say that the worker has lost his job without his own guilt, which implies a possible and technological surplus, etc. which is very hard to prove. What's clear is that if he stayed behind because of the bankruptcy that there's no dilemma. And you know, it's been a lot of trouble, I think it's possible that we understand each other to check if someone took the severance money and went as a technological surplus, so we still release him because he was good at the Employment and went to all the calls. So it would be possible what I said if he had lost his job without his guilt, but she has to be installed and checked. And the bankruptcy was exactly the most resolute clean situation you don't need to prove otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57892	Thank you, too. Now it's lunch break. At 3:00 P.M., the HNS club and respected representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57893	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. I call on my colleague, Joza Radosh, to present the views of the HNS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57894	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. The peace system is being broken and is actually involved in almost all the policies that are being implemented in society. And it's not just a retirement policy, it's also a employment policy, it's a health policy, it's a state of administration of a country. And of course it concerns everything else, since it concerns the awakenings in Croatia, then it concerns everything else and so does fate in one part of these young people who are us... They're listening up at the Parliament Gallery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course it is the fruit of everything that has happened in Croatia, not only in the last 23 years but at least in the last 70 years of these events, we have the opportunity to solve and suffer, fight them and in our pension system. And it's seen very clearly in one part of this law. This law has a fundamental ambition and a intention to increase social solidarity in times of crisis. And the principle of solidarity is based on our pension insurance. But there are other long-term intentions, such as the stimulation of later retirement, the possibility of those who are retired, which has not been the case so far. But these are, even if they are legal provisions, they are actually given the circumstances in which we live, in fact, just more projections and wishes. There is, of course, this provision on increasing the retirement age of which I will, of course, say something later. But I repeat my personal position, that is, the ambition of this law, is to increase solidarity in times of crisis. What does that solidarity look like? I'll show you an example last year. Last year, however, there was a growth in wages of 2.2% based on the adjustment of pensions, but because of the increase in the cost of living, there was essentially a real decline in wages by 1%. And there was also an increase in pensions by 2.3%, but the effect was reduced because there was an increase in the cost of life, so that basically the real drop in pensions was 1.1%. This is the time at which, despite pensions being coordinated in the Swiss formula due to increased cost of life comes naturally and the total drop in standards comes to, essentially, the real drop in pensions. And this law introduces a new indexation, a new adjustment of three models depending on the situation in the country, choosing the model of harmonisation that is most favourable for pensioners, which will, in one part, lead to an increase in the share of the average pension in the average salary. Thus, it is no longer a Swiss formula 50 increase in wages and 50% cost of life than depending on what is more favourable for pensioners it can be 70% on salary increases, 30% on cost of life or vice versa if it is more favourable for pensioners, which is certainly a very reasonable measure in the conditions of crisis and in fact the greatest impact of the crisis of pensioners in the Republic of Croatia. The measure can therefore be difficult to dispute. However, those who have talked about the fundamental reforms that should be implemented in this system as if they are forgetting a few very devastating facts about our system, it is not only the relationship between pensioners and pensioners 1:2:1 which for some countries is an unimaginable, intolerable relationship, with us it still works in the way it works and it means bad than the fact that we have 240 thousand disability pensions that make up 27% of total pensions. And usually, in the European Union countries, that share of disability pensions is 15-20%. So, we are from the worst country in the European Union if this with 20% of the worst for 7% more we have disability pensions and, certainly, the fruit is not that Croatians and citizens of Croatia are more prone to disability than it is obviously the fruit of some policies that have led to such a large number of people with disabilities. Which, of course, not only burdens the retirement pensions, but these people don't work, so not by paying and taxing and contributing, in fact, the weak strength of the pension system and reducing retirement pensions. That's unfortunately so. And probably in terms of the average age of retirement, the pension internship is 32.6 and, of course, the full pension is 40 years old, and the average disability pension in Croatia takes place at 23 years of employment, which of course adds to the burden of the system due to the youth of people who retire and in such circumstances the Croatian pension system is happening and in such circumstances we therefore adopt this Pension Insurance Act. Now, about some more specific issues that are in this law. So it is certainly necessary to support the possibility of working in one half of the working time for pensioners who are retired without being touched by that pension, it is certainly a good measure. Then the pension increase after going to retirement worked, so far you've stopped your pension, worked a year and then got a smaller pension than you've worked that year. During that year, you paid money into the pension system, which is of course nonsense, so these deformations are corrected. Finally, there is also a different model of harmonising the preferential pensions that have been coordinated so far as all other pensions, and now this is no longer happening so that those in the part where pensions from work are coordinated as others, and that additional part is harmonised by the basis of the government's decision or by the basis of how many budgetary opportunities they allow. So there will be a drop in these pensions, surely if the Governments are responsible, there will be a drop in these pensions, and here is a good circumstance, because we will be getting rid of these issues because they are de facto de facto by many reductions in the last 10 years, and even by this measure provided for in the law here, they will de facto get closer to those pensions that these people who have these privileged pensions would have according to ordinary regulations, so not according to special regulations, so this topic is slowly getting younger. Here's one positive circumstance that comes from this law. As for some solutions in this law, I have to show here on behalf of the HNS Club at the very least a question about these measures, which is that the retirement age is raised from 65 to 67 years and starting in 2031. So this is a measure that will start to apply, the law will come into force when it is adopted but this measure will start in 2031, which is a bit unusual because any administration can change that provision in the circumstances of 2031. It is absolutely unclear whether this measure will be a good, welcome, useful measure or not, therefore I see no reason for that measure to be in this law. It won't be of much use to her, but if some government, let the administration decide that she doesn't need this measure, especially at a time when it begins to apply in 2031, circumstances can be completely different. Perhaps the trend will be that the retirement age begins to decrease for some reason. It's hard to guess. Therefore, I do not see much logic in the introduction of this measure. Otherwise, an increase in retirement age is a positive measure, a socially positive measure only in terms of full employment and extra jobs. Then people can work longer, they can earn more than they would get a pension, a full budget of the Republic of Croatia, a full pension system, and young people, of course, on that market where there are extra jobs, can work independently on what they do older. Unless there is a measure, it becomes socially questionable because what older people do is not possible for young people to work. The question is whether it should be in the interest of one society, one state to work older people, and that young people because they take part of the jobs can't work. Therefore, this measure is absolutely useful, has a positive synergy effect on society, on the economy, on the budget if there are extra jobs. If they are not available, this measure only leads to fewer young people being employed. However, pensioners are less retired because they are, of course, older, equally living under those assumptions, and for two years they are less retired, and this sort of relieves the pension system, but it is all a theoretical debate because this topic is waiting for us under this law only for 17 years. Of course, there are still some positive measures here such as being able to go into full retirement with 41 years of internship and 60 years of life which have not been the case so far and which was also some kind of injustice and general stimulation of the subsequent retirement, but all under these earlier assumptions that there are enough jobs on the market to allow for the employment of young people and, of course, filling the state budget or pension fund. Finally, I would like to say something about the provision of the article, I think in 153 of this law, which speaks of the report on the business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office being submitted only to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the competent ministry. It's hard to explain such a provision of the law. This report weighs nearly 35 billion kuna, makes up almost a third of the budget of the Republic of Croatia, it regulates the rights and also the material conditions of almost a third of the population of the Republic of Croatia, and it is absolutely not logical that the report is not being discussed by the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament is discussing reports that weigh 500 000 kunas, which are of course socially necessary and of which the Assembly should take its stand because there are various democratic institutes, standards, etc. But there is absolutely no logic that the Croatian Parliament is not discussing the Report of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute which, as I said, actually concerns a third of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and a third of the budget of the Republic of Croatia under today's circumstances. But all of these are of course remarks, reflections, and at the same time suggestions to the proposer to consider, until the second reading, not doing the best things and removing them from this law. So the law is good in principle. It therefore contains the solidarity needed in times of crisis, it corrects some injustices, sets up some institutes that can be useful in times of prosperity, and therefore the HNS's Club of Representatives will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57895	I thank my colleague, Radosha. We're moving on to replicas. First honorary colleague, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57896	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Radoš, in principle you supported this law and then you counted quite a number of things that you disagree with, so I will start at the end and give full support to this request so I would call it that the Croatian Pension Insurance Office should and must submit a report to this Assembly as well. I think you've explained it well enough, and I hope that the Proposer will consider it and will include that provision for the second reading. However, before that you mentioned an extension of the working life with the conclusion that it is socially beneficial and then you added if the circumstances are full of employment. However, we bring this law into some very different circumstances. And so I think that the extension of the working life for all those reasons that you've listed should absolutely not be considered. In addition to the fact that the number of unemployed is still even greater weight in this whole story gives the fact that they are mostly unemployed young people. And for that very reason, I have a certain reserve according to this provision that retired people will be able to work part-time in full retirement. There is this argument, and especially since there are certain economic operators that show the need for the staff that left them, who retired and which is simply conditionally irreplaceable. But given the unemployment rate, especially young people, I think this is something that we should think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57897	Jozo Radoš answers to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57898	Col. Novak, it is not difficult to agree from the position of representatives in the Croatian Parliament that the Croatian Parliament should consider the reports. I assume the Croatian Parliament is considering a hundred different reports. Often, on the agenda, we have several dozen people who have been dragging on the agenda for months, and that's how it has been since I remember the work of the Croatian Parliament, and that's quite a number of years. So we can get along easy here. However, these provisions concerning an increase in retirement age, including the possibility of people working one half of their working hours without their pension being abolished are provisions that are good. There should be no reason not to accept this law that these provisions are in this law. I only warned, and that is, of course, the purpose of reading the law in the first reading to measure its full value and usability of these measures can only occur at a time when there are extra jobs. If a pensioner wants to work, if necessary for the company, for the profession in which he worked, if he has preserved his work ability and he wants it, if it does not violate the ability of others to work, then it is certainly a good measure. It is that we need to create conditions in which it is possible that people who want to work and that young people can also work normally.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57899	The second line is represented by representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57900	Dear colleague Rados, I didn't know what my colleague Novak would think, and besides, you gave some clues in your debate that I agree with. However, it should be repeated, I think someone here in the Parliament has said that it is a futurist law, a law that prescribes that for 20 years its application, some provisions and laws. However, under conditions of full unemployment, the unemployment rate of 350,000 is unemployed, more than 350,000 with some black forecasts that we will soon get close to that magical border of 400,000 unemployed. And if we're going to let the law employ the pensioners, and that 70,000 young people are waiting for the job market, I think we're doing Sisif's job. Elders need to be able to live a dignified life. For those who spent 65 years doing a decent life, not digging through garbage cans. It is the concern of the social state and the care of the social state to hire young people, those who are packing outside, those who visit the embassies of foreign countries every day, doctors who are packing and going abroad I think we are working backwards so that we now have to tell them to hand over to a very strong group of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, voters who are neat voters, who go to the polls, and to get their votes. And whoever fucks young people, they don't go to the polls anyway, sleep long and don't vote. I don't think that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57901	And this replica corresponds to a colleague named Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57902	Well, of course, the solution to all our dilemmas, including these ideological ones, would at the very least create better conditions for resolving these discussions and conflicts that work well and can work and live well. But when we talk about employment, when we talk about the measures to be implemented you often, you therefore Mr. Vuksic and your club talk about some marginalities such as hiring some 10 employees and your whole debate goes towards it and you neglect that the basic intensity of a law is employment, and that is the only solution for every topic that we are talking about here. As for employment, both young and old is, I would, of course, be able to choose whether to hire older or younger people hired younger people, but that question is a little exclusive. If it's working and it's doing well, then it doesn't really matter who works. The older man who's retired will be employed by the one he'll work for, no one will hire him because of what he's doing wrong, and if he's doing well, then it's a good job. This man will spend his money he earned in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, in various budgets, that money will be spent in the Republic of Croatia. So the only answer to all this is to do even if it's people over 65. But I repeat, special youth employment policies for the sake of perspective and for the sake of concern for them still need to exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57903	And the third replica, Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57904	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here, Mr. Representative, when you were talking about these over 240 thousand disability pensions, I know you thought about it because later on, you said in your statement that it was among other things the result of some policies. Surely our nation is not sicker, so to speak, than the environment and this fruit of some policies is certainly greater by looking at the proportion of this environment. I believe it would be even less of us. Yet the Croats are healthy people. However, this second part when you were talking about questions, so we are all asking questions and sure that who would not like to live in a full - time society and that we can then talk about the pension system and about increasing the retirement rate or the opportunity for pensioners to work as well. And I'm sure at first glance, what you mentioned as your own question is that now, by extending the retirement period and the later retirement period, we're also taking jobs for young people who need it so badly, and at the moment the job became sacred. However, all of us are also witnesses to stimulate early retirement does not mean to automatically open new jobs. We're being denied, ladies and gentlemen, by practice. From socialism to today in capitalism. There were several waves of mass retirement that started in the mid-'50s, so it continued in the '70s and '80s, so I pray in the '90s, and we came to these days. We didn't notice an increase in employment as expected then.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57905	Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57906	That's right, we didn't notice an increase in employment because we didn't create employment conditions. So we had enough people anyway. But with a large number of young pensioners, disabled, so 27% in Croatia have created a great injustice for those people who have done their entire working life, and when someone does 40 years on a job, any job, it's hard not to have some degree of disability. It's just that some in this country have been getting those disability pensions for the last 20 years, and some others don't. You have an example from this law, which probably takes over in that part of the former law, under which you have compensation for physical damage by 30%, you get a 12% pension increase. And now you can imagine a situation where two people who have done the same job, say, workers for some sewing machine or workers on a strip that cost 40 and 35 years, it's hard not to have any damage to the body at 30%, but let's let her get that fee and some other one isn't. So I am because of this, and of course the relations between them are actually disturbed, so I said that the pension system is the fruit of all our policies, including administrative policy and this issue, and that law also takes care of, special attention should be paid. All of these benefits based on disability are well - controlled and well - spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57907	Thank you. Now we move on to an individual debate that was first reported by a respected colleague, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57908	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear Minister, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. After 14 years of the start of the pension reform since January '99. the year and application of the current Pension Insurance Act is before us a proposal for a new law. It is already known that a little reform of the pension, health care or any other brings a better improvement to pensioners, patients, or another category of citizens. It is always difficult to reconcile the wishes and objectives with the sustainability of the system, especially when it is tried at a time of general crisis. This Proposal for a Pension Insurance Act contains a series of good solutions but others that we think should be fairer and better. First of all, I'd like to say something about harmonising pensions at 70:30. Before I give a critical reference to the bill, I must also mention the good side of the new provisions as a result of the discussions and proposals that HSU and the ministry have been leading for a year. First of all, it refers to harmonising pensions to this unfortunate Swiss formula that has caused pensioners a lot of damage for the last ten years 10% behind the salaries. The new 70:30 formula between the gross wage index and consumer prices is not something epochal but is something more favourable than the present formula. We are not satisfied that its application will not be since 1 January 2014 but we understand the difficulties of the state budget deficit and the public debt of the Republic of Croatia. The Institute full-time of 41 years with 60 years of life is the second problem of this full-time institute that we've stood for years ago. Although in Europe too, many represent that years of life in a better proportion must determine future pensions the Croatian Party has always been on that side and that pension internship. 40 years ago in Croatia, all work was entered by 17, 18, 19 years of life. At the time there were few academic citizens, the economy also cried out for middle professional staff. That's why we still have a 40-year-old and up to 45-year-old intern today but still missing until the 65-year life of 2, 3 and even 5 years. And for that reason, such workers who currently have about 11 thousand will be welcome in article 34, which will be able to retire at 41 years of training and 60 years of life and that is important without a pension. We cannot be pleased that the applicant did not accept our proposal that women and in this provision should have a certain transitional period. As a result, we suggest that women’s penalisation be more appropriate and more selective in Article 182. We can also be satisfied with the provisions that have been addressed by other problems so far. For example, when a worker loses his job due to bankruptcy and job loss with a stay of 2 years at the institution, going to a temporary pension without a pension. The other good thing is that with the possibility of working pensioners without suspending pension payments can work. Third, this law and the solution to the problem of members of the second pillar who were severely damaged by the previous law are foreseen because we had an example of about a thousand 200 women who had pensions of less than 1,200 kuna compared to being left in the first pillar alone. In this article, this is the 81st paragraph of the 10th pension for the last year of the internship. This article remained the exact same provision in the current law, and so far there have been observations and examples of the damage to the pensioners. The problem is that the value points are not paid in the year in which the pension is granted but the average is taken from the entire working life, a proportionate insurance rate in that year. In view of the fact that in the last year, workers have more significant stimulation of salaries or various additions, we consider it reasonable and just to calculate value points for this last year of internships. Of course, for such a way of calculating HZMO, a temporary solution should be highlighted, and when a gross salary is obtained for that year then a final solution is also found. Such a solution would not make the pensioners feel that they have been damaged and deceived, so we propose such a solution. Article 85(2) of the Men’s Penalization. We suggest that a row be introduced in the table next year with 36 years of retirement, and in the percentage column of starting factors of 0.20% per month. Such a supplement would have a selective and fair approach, and the current proposal makes too much difference between 38 and 39 years of retirement. This change would give one more precise and fairer relationship in 6 classes 35 to 40 years of employment in 0.5% of the difference between individual years because it must be equally valued each year of retirement. Article 85(3) and (4) rewarding work after 65 years of life. Article 3 for insurance companies with a minimum of 35 years of internship and 0,15 monthly bonus. Item 4. with a minimum of 41 years and 0.34 bonus. For me, this bonus or an internship award after 65 years of life is totally unacceptable for a number of reasons. First of all, according to the Labour Act, work contract stops when a worker is 65 years old and 15 years of employment unless the employer and worker agree otherwise. This provision cannot be used and even 99% of insurance companies except for fewer academic citizens who can still work and whose employer wants to extend their working life. HSU's proposal to be awarded every month costs 0.15% after 41 years of internship or post-yearly work as a full-time internship. Such a solution would be fairer and realising the provisions of Plan 21 which says "we will be committed to institutionalising flexible retirement by rewarding a longer working period than full-time" such a solution would be a motive and incentive that workers with 41 years of internships, which is these 11 thousand if they can and wish to remain in the world of work for up to 65 years and do not increase the number of pensioners. Article 182(1) of the penalisation of women during the transitional period. The problem is the same as in Article 85 for men, only in Article 182 in women is solved in an even more inappropriate way. Here in the 2014 tables they skip by two years and in the percentage column we also have an unacceptable difference between 36 and 37 years of retirement. Because of a fairer solution than in men, we suggest a series of 6 classes from 32 to 37 years with 0.5% between individual years or 3% for 5% of previous retirement. Finally, I hope that the legislator will take into account our well-intentioned remarks and proposals until the second reading, and this specifically refers to a selective approach to the problem of penalising early retirements as well as a solution to rewarding a long-term internship but not after 65 years of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57909	Thank you. The Republic has a colleague, Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57910	Thank you. You mentioned these terms introduced with this bill on retirement with 41 years of internship and 60 years of life. To be honest with you, I acted on one of the e-mails. I'm not quite sure if there's a possibility, and this goes to you to consider that only a job internship is appropriate for over 40 years of work experience, since we have an unfettered job internship, let's just say, what about it. So what's the point of that, let's say someone's 44, 45 years old, which didn't reach that age of 60. Is there a possibility that those between 55 and 60 are able to meet the conditions for early retirement with 41 years of employment? I don't think that would be an exaggeration figure, mostly firemen, railways, I don't know who else belongs in that category. What did you say, sailors? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And I think that if someone who spends 55 years of their lives could hardly go anywhere, they would expect more employment especially in these conditions, and even if it is considered to have, say, over 41 years of work experience, then it becomes really pointless, that job internship really doesn't have any purpose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57911	The replica matches a colleague named Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57912	Well, I couldn't agree less if it wasn't for the purpose of this provision. Well, we've been looking for that provision because of what else there are I said about 11,000 people. And they'll be in the next few years, maybe not so much. This is one group that can use it because, for example, I've had examples that have come to me a lot, a teacher at 44 years of age and 60 years of age, 63 years of life that could no longer work. However, we also have examples that men at 59 years of age and 43 years of training could not retire, and I think it is inappropriate for a worker at more than 40 years of age to retire and this has been possible up to 9% so far. And that's why we suggested... However, there is probably a number of workers who are far less than 60 years old and quite a lot of internships. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, there is also a benefited internship. As far as I know, there is also a law on the benefits of an internship that should be better resolved and set out what these professions are now because we already have jobs and occupations that are no longer available as locomotives and the like. And in that sense, it's probably happening then and that's how it's solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57913	We're continuing an individual debate. A respected colleague, Ljiljana Cvetovic, is on her way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57914	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Minister with the Deputy. The new Pension Insurance Act is expected to correct the shortcomings and injustices observed so far in pension insurance. This autumn, public debates on a series of important laws in labour law such as the Social Care Act, the Labour Act and the Pension Insurance Act are current. Part of the debate was also held in the prime time of the annual vacations, so there is no need to be surprised at the small number of remarks in the first stage. In my debate, I will talk about some good provisions as well as those of others for whom the public has objections. One of them is the possibility for pensioners to improve under-retirement, which is good for pensioners while critics are blackmailing this provision as an obstacle to youth employment and affecting their emigration by particularly highly educated persons. Retired people ask why Article 99 determines the work of pensioners without suspending their pensions left out users of early retirement pensions. Because according to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, they have the lowest pensions per year. It is also necessary to include in the process the necessary processing in the employer prior to the training on the identification of the risk of disability. It is also necessary to identify the remaining working capacity in the Employment Service to determine which jobs there is a need on the labour market. The peace insurance of generation solidarity is organised on the principles of reciprocity and solidarity. But the amendments to Article 90 may be exaggerated in solidarity, justice is violated, and there is no retroactive action, and it is the institute of minimum or minimum pensions and misapplication of the principle of solidarity. Articles 33 and 35 suggest increasing the age limit for retirement. Although this is a far-reaching future in the next period, it is necessary to revise all jobs where the insurance internship is accounted for with an increased duration, as well as those where the working conditions are particularly difficult and harmful to health. It is necessary to determine at which jobs workers lose not only special but also general... and how many years they lose and how many years of life they find a condition of age for retirement. Article 58 should be deleted as it introduces a loss of the number of persons with disabilities and increases the number of persons with age pensions and reduces the data on the average internship. It can even happen that an age pension can be achieved with less training than a minimum of 15 years of retirement, and that is, in cases with more years of added training than an insurance internship. In addition, this translation of people with disabilities into retirement does not change anything for the user because this right is translated into the same amount of pensions. Article 69(8) raises the question of how to hire or work a person who has been declared a person with complete loss of working ability. In Article 88(8), it is proposed that the Governing Council of the HZMO determines the current value of the pension no later than three months after the end of each half-year. Until now, that deadline has only been two months. Does this mean that pensioners will only receive pension harmonisation through such a solution in October for those increases in prices that took place in January or February? So far, the State Statistics Office has added data on gross wages indexes on the 25th of the month, for example for June, we received data by August 25th. Finally, I must stress that I cannot agree with the proposal that there is no transitional period for women in Article 34, as well as non-selective pensionisation in Article 183. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57915	We're continuing an individual debate. It's my dear colleague Ivan Shuker's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57916	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. Well, a lot has been said about one area which is unfortunately due to some wrong decisions and assessments and opinions that some small interventions in the law can be solved, so now in Croatia, I think we have four types of pensioners. The 4 types of pensioners that took place and as a consequence of individual interventions did not make good enough analytical assessments and then when pensions started to pay off, we saw that because some people went away a month or a month later to retire that pensions were different and up to 20% and 30%. Also, to do this kind of bill, not agree to it practically with anyone, not to make one cyclical assessment of what certain provisions in the budget mean that on the revenue, expenditure side, we can be brought to a great deal of trouble in financing pensions from the state budget. So when you look at this bill, then it already has one fixed form as regards the assessment of the necessary resources that this government normally sends laws or does not need new funds, or it's obvious that there will be revenue more and more, and here it is indicative that the revenues will be higher by a billion kuna in 2014 and in 2015 it will be higher by 2 billion kuna. Today, the minister said in his opening statement that this would be the result of a better charge, and for a year and a half you have been saying that you have improved the bill by the basis of amendments, so if you have improved how you can improve it again in order to increase revenues since 2015. Because look, colleagues and colleagues, 2 billion kuna is not 0.1%, 2 billion kuna is an increase in the income of the state budget based on pension insurance by 10%. If we have economic growth by the government's fiscal projections, someone has made one on the side that practically doesn't guarantee that this number of 354 or 5, and we can be politically prone to whether it's a thousand more or less, significantly reduces as far as unemployment is concerned, and even that employment figure is going to increase significantly, and from what sources do we think of the sum of 2 billion kuna? Do you really think there are reserves in the Croatian economy that these 2 billion kunas could be taken? Mr. Minister, I'm only going to give you one example when some things are brought in for this or that political reason, I don't know how much you remember that time because then probably this area wasn't in the interest of interest, you were dealing with your professional work, so those famous 6% plus 100 kuna. It was an addendum to retirement for the pensioners to recover, and then it was said to enter into the retirement foundation and to cost only 100 million kuna. Yeah, that cost 100 million kuna in the first year. After a few years, the cost rose to nearly a billion kuna. And that's why today in one replica I said that all the costs in retirement because it's a large number of people who receive how we look at some kind of mathematical sequence or how you want to actually look at a rectangular triangle. Because you practically start from one very small amount and then they increase from year to year. Why am I saying that? So for the simple reason that when you look at this article 55 then it is defined which pensions will be financed from tax revenues. The minister said today if I'm not mistaken, it's an amount of $12 billion. And another 4 billion kuna lacks funds to pay off those pensions that are based on the foundation of work whether the full-time job or not is full-time. However, when all of this is summed up, we are mathematically looking at it now, even though it is very difficult to say, we are actually coming to the biggest fiscal problem of the state budget. We have some revenue of 19 billion and 36 billion expenditures. And then it's unfair for those who retired in Croatia to see it as if someone gave them a handout. For they are simply what they receive. And now I'm going back to what's the point of everything. The peace they have earned in different countries, in various socio-political arrangements and can say in as many as three or four different economic times in the new Croatian state. And it's very hard to get to some real base here. Because when you look at it, in the early 1990s, the average salary was 2,3,000 marks when the mark was 7 dinars. Then the inflation came later and in '92, the third, fourth, fifth year, the average salary in Croatia was 200 marks or 100 euros. And today, the average salary in Croatia is over 700 euros. And now that you're counting on how much someone should get, he's been paying off like this, and it's just a number that we can't play with because of a million and 250,000 pensioners. Another thing I'm going to talk about is that it's simply that Croatian defenders and others don't deserve to be told that they have privileged pensions. They all did part of their life span whether it was 15, 20, 30, 40 years, it didn't matter and they paid a pension contribution. It's funny to the minister, he finds it very funny. But someone said that at the time the Croatian defender retired his pension must not be below 40% of the average salary and on behalf of it he gets that allowance. I have prayed that all those who are in the status of retirement under a special law should be removed from that pension and to see how much these people have paid and how many people would have had if they didn't have the basis of this law, how much their pension would be, so you will see that it's not as scary as it wants to be shown. Why am I saying all this? Well, that's all I'm saying because this law and you're going to see pension fund laws just don't offer anything revolutionary. They don't offer anything that will increase the pension for citizens, because they simply can't, given the situation in the state budget. But what's true and true about me is that it causes concern based on some experience from previous times, and one part of the story, I think two of these four different pensions are falling off in the time of HDZ's rule, and two of them are falling off in the time of 2000, 2003, when some intervention took place, so we can say that we are unresolved, and then maybe it's easier for me to even talk about it. What happens when tomorrow, because the budget won't allow us to do it safely for the next 4.5 years, we won't be able to set out more than 5% in the second pillar of retirement. What will happen if these people today pay 3, 4 or 5000 kuna on average with a pension that will be based on the first and second pillars will not be able to live. Are we going to make up some new law again, supplementing the pensions of those who retired on the first and second pillars? Or you should have seen it now given that parallel to this you got on the benches I don't know which one of you saw should have thought about what the status is and what the future of the second pillar of retirement is. In my opinion, however, this Law on Voluntary Pension Funds was supposed to practically go into the package with this law. Because you can't, if I'm going to get two basics as a pension tomorrow, and so far it's one basis, then we can't possibly observe those two laws separately. So today, we had to practically have a joint debate on voluntary pension funds and on the Pension Insurance Act for the simple reason that these two laws tax some pensions that will take place in the future. And let me finish. Therefore, the second pillar of pension was scheduled to rise to 8.9% by 2011, in 2012. Because the situation in the budget didn't happen the same way this government can't do now, I'll be correct there. I won't say, he won't. But if we're already bringing about a reform of the pension system, then Mr. Minister, we simply can't rule out that segment. We need to make a stronger analytical assessment, an evaluation because I think we all have a political option that belongs in the interest of passing a law that simply solves our pensioners' traumas, so that we don't have 70% of our pensioners below 3,000 kuna. And that's why what I said this morning in the replica I think this law at least deserves for us MPs one far, far deeper analytical... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57917	A colleague named Branko Vuksic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57918	Dear fellow Shuker, you have touched two very important issues in your debate. One is the injustice that seems to towards workers who have retired in different times, have worked the same number of years, have paid equal money, say those workers with similar salaries, and you said they have up to 20, 30 and some even more percent different pensions, less or more pensions. It's an injustice that weighs everything and society should make sure that those pensions are equal. That's what he was trying to do, but it didn't work out. Another problem that may be even bigger, which you pointed out in the fact or question of what kind of pension workers will have today's incomes of 3 thousand to 5 thousand, and these are very large in the Republic of Croatia, what will be with them in 5, 10, 15 years when they retire, what pensions will they be according to this trend? Because all those who think that the trend will recover very quickly and that we will soon become Switzerland are certainly being deceived. By now, this law or pension reform should be found if it's ever to find a key without that global key that I'm not going to have because I don't have enough time for. So we should find answers to these questions how to correct this injustice of workers who have also paid the same price and also have those workers who have a hard time living with 3,000 kunas, and they will have a pension misery in about 10, 15 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57919	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57920	Look, colleague Vuksic, pension reform in Croatia was made in 1999. In 2000, however, the government then decided to continue the pension reform. And then at that moment, don't chase me for the word whether it was in 2001 or somewhere in the law, and it happened to us that we suddenly got two kinds of pensioners. And it was all tolerable to some level and then suddenly there was a difference in pensions of 30, 40 percent and then we passed that law on that supplement to make it as right as possible. This best shows how dangerous it is to intervene in one system that is in the mass of a large amount of money, but on the other hand tangs living people. It's very dangerous to intervene. And that's why many European countries today, I don't know if there's anyone who doesn't have a problem with the pension system. For a million reasons, if nothing else because of the biological limit that has increased. And many have not done pension reforms because it is always a very sensitive and very dangerous issue, especially when pension reform is done in such a crisis years that simply earns not some real level but are far below. Because if today more than 450 thousand people in Croatia who receive wages are not so... tax scissors, so they are not affected by the tax on income, because their income is lower than that of a member with abstention, and what should be taxed is a clear signal that unfortunately will happen tomorrow when they retire. And that's why I'm saying that maybe all together, why not, make a system that will work. To say that something reform that doesn't offer anything reform is something that's not good. Because I repeat, when you look at the fiscal projections of Croatia's fiscal potential in the future, the next few years are not so much that they could intervene more significantly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57921	He stands up with another replica, counterpart Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57922	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to admit, I'm surprised you don't see anything revolutionary in this bill. I'm surprised you don't see a revolutionary view of 2040 or 2050 when 375 thousand workers will be missing in Croatia. I'm surprised you don't see that the current government doesn't care about 355,000 current unemployed, but they actually care about our bright future. It seems that this law serves to prepare these bright futures that they project in 2040 and 2050. And probably in preparation for this bright future is the fact that on October 1st, Minister Linic solemnly promised the IMF and the Croatian public that Croatia would not be in debt until the end of this year that Croatia owed us 1 billion and 750 million dollars or when translated into kunas for 10 billion kunas, most likely to cover the expenditures by the end of this year so that pensions and wages in the public sector would not come into question. And I'm really surprised that you don't see that bright perspective in 2040 and 2050 and the revolutionary view of our minister who came to us with this law ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57923	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57924	I am a supporter of my colleague Matušić who sees the present realistically that he has a better future in front of him. And unfortunately, this law doesn't really see the present. Because realistically considering the present then as regards the indexation of pensions it would have been made at least a projection according to the fiscal projections this government has made for the next three years. It would also be clear to us how much an article in Article 155 costs tomorrow because it must be financed from budget revenues. And this huge debt in America, look at Hungarians who are in a much worse situation than we are the other day in charge of 1 percentage point at a lower interest rate, which means in the future that both these future pensioners and Croatian entrepreneurs will pay a far higher interest rate because they simply can't have a low interest rate for citizens or entrepreneurs when the state is in debt at such an expensive amount. And ultimately, at times when the world's money market or the financial market however you want it doesn't know what money would do and there's extra money for sure it's a very lucrative job to lend some money to a 6.2% interest team more if that Member State is the EU and you don't practically have any risk at all. I keep repeating for years we paid a high interest rate because of what they told us you are risky, you are in a system of negotiations for EU entry and it is not known how this will end. So why did these same gentlemen who told us then not tell us now that you've entered the EU, you've completed certain processes and we'll sign off on it so we can get a lower interest rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57925	His contribution to the individual debate will now be given by a respected colleague, Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57926	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister. Here I want to say through this law on issues related to the field of fire, something briefly touched here in previous discussions. Namely, you know the Croatian fire department has three operational units, voluntary fire, professional and state intervention units. Voluntary firefighters are 60 and several thousand, professional firefighters in Croatia are 2,350 and state intervention units 100 operatives. We have a fire problem just about the pension system. It is clear that firefighters must be mentally and especially physically prepared and ready for the activity they are doing, which they are doing in the Republic of Croatia, of course, and everywhere in the world and firefighters for 55 years or more, for sure that they are not physically ready and able to carry out their operational duties, such as younger firefighters. And the operational units that have such firemen and their composition fall as an example of me in Split the average in the professional fire department is more than 45 years old. And that's one of the reasons why you should consider this law on pension insurance and the resolution of these professional firefighters. They are not many in Croatia, they are 2,300 firefighters. Special amendments to the 2010 Law on Firearms when we changed that only people under 30 could be employed by fire departments were helped to address this problem, but unfortunately many small units have a problem with the fact that these units are becoming old. You can't deploy a fireman for over 55 years or 60 years because such small units don't have such jobs. So it is inevitable that this legal solution should also try to find a solution for such firefighters because the state is devoting about 300 million kuna from its budget for the salaries of a large part of these professional firefighters and the other part of it is set aside by local self-government and it is certainly to the detriment of the state budget and taxpayers if we do not do something about it. Therefore, since we are not in the Pension Insurance Rights Act, which is prescribed in Article 80 of the Law that the military and police use these benefits, it would be logical that this law... no other law has provided for fire departments and professional firefighters to regulate this status by this law and that the firefighters of our proposal or my proposal are here today to add a second sentence which would then, exceptionally from this first article, be entitled to an age-old pension due to the long-term insurance that must be provided by firemen working on jobs that are accounted for with an increased duration of insurance when they are 41 years old, because we have a situation for some firefighters at 64 years of employment. So I don't think that would be a big cost to the state first because there are 2,350 professional firefighters in total, normally not everyone's going to retire, but one part of them that should leave at 55 years of retirement to be given the same status as the police and the military.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57927	A colleague named Branko Hrg reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57928	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You've opened up a very good subject. In principle, it's not only the problem of retirement, it's the public fire departments and firemen that get in the way of the problem already, because when people lose their ability to actively participate in the fires, then there's a problem in local self-government because it just doesn't know what to do with these people, how to complete that number. And it's absolutely acceptable and it's good that volunteering and you as president of the Croatian Fire Department actually encourages solving the questions of professional firefighters do we know that there can be problems in that part. In any case, I say a little bit when you're already on the subject by definitely supporting what you said but there really is a problem, you might have to solve the question of what with people in public units to professional firemen who lose medical confirmation that they're capable of professionally doing business, and they don't have any practical conditions for retirement and there really is a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57929	The answer to the replica of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57930	The Croatian Fire Department is a roof organisation of total fire departments. So all firefighters are professional, volunteering first in the fire communities of cities and municipalities then in the fire departments of the county and all together make up the Croatian Fire Department. We are an organization of roof and professional and voluntary firefighters and our responsibility is to care about each other. And here's the problem, and you've noticed you're the mayor, so you know you have this problem when a fireman comes into such a situation that he doesn't have a doctor's office and you don't have a place to deploy him especially in small units. And that's why this is a big problem for professional fire department, and we don't have another law is we're just the Fire Department Act, which in one article regulated that firefighters have an unfettered internship but we're not covered by this law on pension insurance rights where the police and the military are, and then those firefighters who aren't capable of service fall under a burden or local administration if in your case or a special case of state intervention of a unit that the state founded 10 and more years ago there in 2002 to be the most common units. At that time they were young boys at age 25, 30 today they already have 40 for 10, 15 years they are 45 years old and they do not have any benefits or rights to get them at some time when they can no longer respond to that service to protect them or to give them the opportunity to justly do as police officers and soldiers do to leave them for a deserved pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57931	The second line is Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57932	Thank you very much. Comrade Sanader, I fully support this debate of yours. And it's good that you who is the man who knows the fire system that you warned, pointed to that problem. However, pure objectivity works, I must say that, not only is fire enforcement where this problem is highlighted where certain jobs are sought for proper health care and after it happens that people do not meet, have no more health conditions, simple health has left them. I cannot carry out my work those prescribed by their workplace. But there's nothing within that system that would have been conditionally removed, to make sure that they remain operational. You mentioned if I wasn't wrong, two or two-and-a-half thousand people who were in the fire system that would be covered by this. I have to tell you that, let's say, and the railroad is the same thing, and in the same way, we can watch it, and the same people are doing an unfettered job, and I don't know 55, 56, 57 years old people who are on the ground every day holding cars, so-called maneuverists. They're just not able to do that job. When they lose their health, there's just no way to take care of them. In doing so, they accumulated 40 and a few years of work. So I think one solution would solve it, one quality approach would solve a little more of those groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57933	The answer to the replica of Ante Sandaer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57934	I was talking about fire here because I'm coming from that system, I'm a volunteer firefighter, and I'm in that system, and I'm talking about it normally. I don't know the problems of this other person that you're talking about, that's for sure through some of your amendments you'll make such suggestions. Here's where Mr. Schamper said there's a special benefit law coming in, so I don't know if I know through the benefit law. Although I think that this, when it comes to firefighters, would be the most normal thing for firefighters to be in rank or equal with the police and the military who has the statutes already defined, only here are the firefighters trying to solve their status for years, unfortunately they haven't solved it, and here's why I thought this pension law we're discussing today and my responsibility to warn me about this problem. And we'll give, I'll give the amendment to this bill and I hope especially that Mr. Stubel is a long-time firefighter, he knows this issue, and I believe there can be a quality solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57935	Thank you. Now, for five minutes on behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed Zeljko Schamper will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57936	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. After all these discussions and replicas today on one of the most important laws, I would like to refer to the consequences and effects of the current Pension Insurance Act that has not been discussed today. This Pension Insurance Act, which had a specific restrictive objective under the pension reform. First to challenge and prevent more significant inflows of new pensioners and second to prevent increasing pension expenditures on the burden of the state budget. We can say that the consequences of this law are disastrous for 665 thousand new pensioners who have been retired since 1 January of '99. To this day. The difference between their pensions and the so-called pensions. old, let's call them old and new amounts 470 kuna or 19%. And the annual savings amount to more than 3.5 billion, which is more than 1% of gross social product. About this biggest injustice of the pension system today, few people speak but we have been hearing lately that members of the second pillar will have pensions of 60 to 70% of the average salary. The question arises as to what is now 2 thousand 33 kuna, or only 37% of the average salary, with this deceived generation in '99, 2013. Who and when will damage this generation of pensioners who have been indirectly stolen as a result of the theft of old pensioners from. '93. until '98. A year. Another problem for many years has been early pensions for which our eminent economists also say that they need to be retired even harder. According to them, they pay five years less contributions and five years longer enjoy retirement than users of retirement which is not true. I'd like to see them enjoy those early retirements. According to cumulative data from the Pensions Institute, early retirement users have a 3.5-year longer average retirement rate than those of old-age pensions with a tendency to vary even more. In the first nine months of this year's retirement, it went from 31 years to 2 months to 37 years and 7 months early. Even more devastating data are in retirement amounts per year of internship, disability pension 83 kuna for the lowest internship and early 65 kuna for the longest internship. In addition, for me, the controversial name is an early retirement that made sense until the end of '98. the year when the age limit for the retirement pension abolished and translated the issued solution into a more favourable retirement pension. Today's early retirement with pensions remains for the rest of his life. And I don't see any reason not to just call it early retirement. Croatia is a member of the European Union and, as such, should benefit from the good practice of EU Member States in the social pension system, such as recognition of years of military service, regular study, reduction of age limits for mothers. I am very sorry that because of the difficult economic problems in the Republic of Croatia, the proposal for this law has not found a solution for the users of family pensions. And this is that after the death of a spouse, the other partner gets a relatively total pension along with his pension part of the deceased mate’s pension. At the end of this debate, I must also convey the disappointment of the members of the coordination especially of the Retired Mother, organisations with 275,000 members and members of the National Council, following a comprehensive debate, following all remarks and proposals for amendments to the 20 articles of the new law, only one point was corrected and that was a spelling error. The level of support of this law by the representatives of HSU will be proportionate to the proposing's will to respect our observations because they are exclusively well-intentioned, without hiding differences in positions and in order to improve the Pension Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57937	Thank you. Branko Vuksic signed up for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57938	As a man who deals with this topic, I support your debate, I agree with your point of view. There's one sentence you mentioned, actually one paragraph in your discussion, and that's a cheated generation of pensioners. What about that cheated generation of pensioners? Shouldn't fraud be punished? How is it possible for the state to apply, no matter who is in power now, not now but at that time, therefore it is not an accusation of a particular party or a particular political elite, but of all the elite, to simply say nothing, so we decided and punished all the pensioners who, as many as it is, 10 years and over who have retired, we punished them. Why? So because we have decided to do so, let them be punished. We want to make it right, we won't. Why, because there's no money. So what now? Nothing. They were paying into the fund, not because it was spent, because someone made the wrong decision. That's proof of this sentence of yours that you said, the question that you said that we became completely immoral, amoral society.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57939	Replication response, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57940	My dear colleague, I haven't talked much about it, but already today there are 663 000 new pensioners, the elderly have reached that ratio with 200,000 less. The differences, I was saying in the final word, are huge. Where are the causes? We all new pensioners know a little bit what the problem is. There are two reasons. First of all, we've been indirectly stolen from you since '93. until '98. Pensions have been in line with Valentiæ's regulations, so since '93. until '98. the old pensioners were stolen and 31.12.1998 the pension level was the basis for calculating the initial value, the current value of the pension. So, she's on a stolen base. Later, in 2001, 2004, the 100 kuna supplement and 6% retired, Racan's government increased its pensions 0.5 to 20%. All these increases, and they also applied on behalf of the compensation, did not correct this current current current value of the pension. The backlog is 19% today or 3.7 billion for this year. This best shows how many pensioners all these years, that debt is higher than 25 million, it increases every year as many new pensioners as possible. And what's going to happen? The old generation is leaving a little bit, about 2025 will theoretically disappear, and there will be one big hole left, and the new one will no longer have to compare with who, and that fraud will remain if something is not done, but we all understand that nothing can be done at this point because of our economic situation, but it is a major disaster for these new pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57941	The final letter belongs to the Minister of Labour and Pension System, Prof. Dr. Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57942	Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. So today's debate was expected by who's been discussing from which position. I'll look back on certain remarks and certain parts of the law. First of all, when we talk about assessing the effects of this law, it is done by assessing the effects of legal regulations. We also did a consultation with the interested public, we had a large round table, we had discussions in Split, Rijeka, Zagreb, Osijek on several occasions, we had discussions with the scientific public, we also had discussions at the Faculty of Law. There was also a clear debate on the web. We also held several sessions of the National Council of Retired People where we discussed this law. A meeting of the Economic and Social Council was also held. Therefore, all what the Impact Assessment Act requires we have done and I can say that the discussion at all these meetings has been quite jumbled and some of the solutions we have incorporated into this law have come from these discussions. When we talk about separating the system, so we want to separate the system into two systems. One system that is related to contributions and another system that is related to the budget, and I fully agree that there is no need to talk about any privileged pensions but should talk about pensions under special laws where these special laws are given specific rights which are not based on contributions and we need to talk about it that way. In order for us to do so, and in law, we also predicted those factors in that article that sometimes caused confusion, so it was a confusion for the National Council of Retireds, so that the conversion factor of those pensions is a factor that will turn us into what part of the pension is related to the Pension Insurance Act. So, which part of the pension is related to contributions, and which part of the pension is related to the budget itself which allows us to then and those pensions that are not separated at the moment because in these pensions as I have mentioned here are examples of academics who deserve their pension under the Pension Insurance Act. Then we give them an extra because they're academics and he's tied to the budget itself. We want to fully separate these two systems and all pensioners in their retirement reports will know what part of their pension is related to the Pension Insurance Act, and which part of the pension is linked to the budget itself. As far as the assessment of the effects of the new law is concerned, we've assessed and done. I think you've probably seen this table if it was small letters. So, according to our projections by 2030, we have an increase in expenditure of 4 and a half billion, while at the same time we have an increase in income at 5 and a half billion. So, not only is the increase in the contribution to better collection, but it is clear that we will grow in the number of employees and that the economy will grow and this law needs to be looked at in that light. So it's not a futurist law, it's a law that looks in the distance. You must now predict certain things. There is also a response to Honorable Representative Radosh that this law must predict what will happen in the future. And it's clear that this extension of age is going to be a full-time job, that then there will be increased contributions, and that our economies will grow, that our wages will rise, that our growth will contribute. So it should look that way. So we are now projecting a system that will look about 20 years from now. But that's also why we need to do it now to make adjustments in the system that's the answer to the distinguished representative Sanader, so where we're going to predict a new way of retirement for fishermen. Dear Representative Baranovic is here, we've already talked about fishermen, firefighters, military, police. So they're going into a completely different retirement system. They'll go after that so-called. The Swedish system. We've already made preparations in this law, and that means that when a fireman enters a professional service, he'll know that at 50, by heart I'm talking, or 55, he'll retire, that he'll have 50, 60% of his salary, but he'll be able to keep working. So, a firefighter who was in a professional unit if he is in the city of Zagreb will be able to be a fireman in the HNK or somewhere in an institution and earn his retirement until full retirement. And if not, then there's this part of the pension that's tied to this Czech section. So we're also introducing a new way of retirement. So, the new way that pensions for those who are, groups that we totally understand that they can't last the whole working life and that you can't expect to have a fireman at 60 who's going to do his job the way he did ten years ago. Also, as far as the benefits are concerned, next year is the year in which we will also change some things, so as to the benefits of working together with the profession, we will see in which occupations are justified, in which relationship and at what level. The reason why I stress this is also a projection of the very extension of the retirement age, because we will also enable companies that have working-intense branches, so also wood-processing, leather, textile industry to have a different way of retirement and that it is known that a textile worker will, after some time, go into a different form of retirement than before. Therefore, this is a comprehensive amendment to the law, not just an extension of the retirement age, it is not just a fee for those who work long and that they can retire from 41 years of employment. Why, in the very reason of the law, we projected the costs of the system by 2015 and the sixteenth to which the budget is bound. However, as I mentioned, we made calculations until 2030. What's our goal is to do this, so this is our goal. Our goal is for the first and second pillars to be 60% of the salary, and in order to do so, we need to enable 27% to return to the second pension column because we received it in the first pension column, to calculate the pension from the first and second pension pillars of the account differently, to count against how much is paid in the first or second pension column. And I agree that we should have had a debate together on this law and the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds. It'll probably be next week so I believe we'll have time to say something about it, too, because it's part of the system itself. So, our goal is that those pensioners who retire in 2020, the '30s, the '40s, that they have 60% of the salary and that's why we're talking about all this. It is clear that the extension of the retirement age is something concerning every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, but it is also a change in the system that goes towards respecting the specificities of each profession. As far as family retirement is concerned, it is clearly something to talk about. When we talk about family retirement, so when two spouses have a pension, when one dies, the other can have his pension or 70% of his spouse’s pension. So there's no merger. There's this in Germany, but according to my latest information, Germany is leaving that model. The simple system, that according to the information from the Bundestag and the parliamentarians who are there, they are also starting to leave that system or they will probably reduce it than they were but simply can't stand. We clearly want to introduce it, there's no problem in introducing it, but at this point, the financial situation and the budget and the strength of our economy won't allow it, and we don't want to put anything into the law that we're going to say one day. Minimum pension and property censorship, yes, this should be linked to one another but we in Croatia need to have a good property price and should think about it in the future when the property censorship is established in Croatia that it is linked to a minimum pension. Finally, as far as the report is concerned, we were only handling that practice that other large system has, and that is the Croatian Health Insurance Office, which has no obligation to report in the Croatian Parliament. Since these are two large systems, we felt that the Croatian Pension Insurance Office could also have the same treatment as the Croatian Health Insurance Office. It won't be any trouble to change that. It's been a long time. It'll still be. On the basis of today's debate, we will make the changes we believe are justified and I hope that the law will come very quickly to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57943	I thank the minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57944	Proposal for a Pension Insurance Act, first reading, PZE No. 509. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. 2. Any comments, proposals, opinions will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. I beg your pardon, who's in favour of this conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour and 15 votes against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57945	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is - Proposal for a Law on the Central Insurance Register, first reading, P.Z. No. 508; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Miranda Mrsic, Minister of Labour and Pension System. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57946	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Very briefly, therefore, this bill proposes that the REGOS section be extended and prescribed by one legal act, given that so far it has been prescribed by several legal acts which lead to unnecessary sequencing of the jurisdiction of the same institution in different regulations. In particular, the REGOS Part-Corruption Regulation was first regulated by the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, where the section relating to the conduct of personal account records of pension fund members, the execution of the tasks of members on the transfer of contributions, transfer of accounts and transfer of assets, and subsequently to the Data Collection Act by insurance undertakings on compulsory pension insurance contributions, thus extending the delirquent to the combined collection of processing and delivery of data by insurance undertakings on compulsory pension insurance contributions. We simply want to solve the work of REGOS with one law. This law newly regulates powers and competences in order to bring them into line with the newly regulated systems of the state administration body and legal persons with public authority. The pre-conditions for electronic data exchange with institutions in the social security system at national level and with the competent institutions of EU member states are also provided for in the implementation of the coordination of the social security system in accordance with EU regulations, as the REGOS section is extended to coordination tasks. In fact, REGOS becomes the point of social security in Croatia and becomes part of the EU's social security. This legislative proposal gave the REGOS the role of the competent institution and the liaison bodies in relation to the rights of members of the mandatory pension funds to be implemented under European coordination regulations as well as the role of the access point of the Republic of Croatia for electronic data exchange in the social security system. The conditions for better and more effective protection of insurance and other persons in the exercise of their rights shall also be ensured and the causes that generate data discrepancies, registries and records of different institutions shall be eliminated, thus ensuring a faster, more accessible and secure service for the needs of end-users. Changes in REGOS have already begun, and one of the major changes that awaits us in 1.01.2014 is the beginning of the application of a unique form of tax, cut, contribution and income. We remove 6 current forms and introduce one unique form for each employee in the Republic of Croatia, thus ensuring the uniqueness of the data, thus ensuring that the payment of contributions is controlled and that we know what is being paid for, for whom and in what amount. In this way we will ensure the justice of the system, ensure that the contributions are controlled, that the contributions are paid and that we connect four large systems into one. So, the Tax Administration, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and REGOS – become a unique system with the aim of contributing and paying contributions to be better controlled and that we no longer experience what has happened to us in the past eight years. And the final intensity of this law is to ensure and strengthen the role of REGOS as one of the two institutions responsible for the collection and processing of data on all receipts and public administrations through this unique form which will lead to changes in the system itself. And finally, at the end of 2014, we will finally know how much pay is paid in Croatia to whom the contributions are paid, and besides that and how much money is paid for other incomes that are not only related to primary income. I hope we get support from the clubs. Again, I note that the collection of unique data is something we should have done a long time ago, and after this we will probably have a lot, a lot more data in Croatia and we will know where whoever is doing what he does and how much pay he receives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57947	I thank the minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, a respected colleague, Jozo Radoš, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57948	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. So here I'm going to start with this last sentence said by the minister, which is that the Republic of Croatia needs a unique place where all the data on commitments to the state is collected, about the taxes the state gives to compare, and that should certainly be a dam against irrational spending, abuse, so all those actions that are directed against public interest and against the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this law, which is the Central Insurance Register Act, is not only that. The institution, REGOS, as the law states, has more powers than it is just an ordinary registry. Therefore, it also has permanent tasks in carrying out account transfer operations, contributions, assets, so these are quite clear administrative tasks and not just data collection and exchange. It has even some powers which are classical administrations such as issuing certificates to insurance companies for the exercise of early relations rights. So this is a very clear administrative function and the question is, if part of these certificates are not in electronic form which will, for example, be issued automated without a larger employee engagement, the question is how many REGOS employees should have in order to meet these requirements, it is difficult to assess, here in the law there is no assessment. But it is certainly clear that one institution that would contain data not only from the pension insurance system concerning voluntary and compulsory HZMO pension funds but also from all other data is very logical and of course it is expected that this single record will allow not only an insight into the availability, collection of public funds but easier and faster and better business and easier and better achievement of interest and conversion of the Republic into... which is, of course, one of its main tasks. However, in addition to this data, the REGOS has the task of coordinating all systems within the state, so that it collects data not only from those related to pension insurance but also from the Ministry of Finance, Tax Administration, HZMO, HZZO, HZZZZ, pension insurance companies, so this really creates one assumption that we have in one place complete records, easy control and, of course, more efficient availability, collection and equally the expenditure of the state budget. Under this law, the REGOS task is based on two EU regulations and co-ordination in the social security system with EU Member States as a control post, so where all this data exchange with Member States will happen, what should result in and in that part of international communication achieving these objectives, and this is an orderly monitoring of all possible obligations and equal monitoring of giving, but ultimately this should lead to the achievement of the rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and then EU citizens with regard to the Republic of Croatia being achieved faster, better, simpler. Therefore, all that is stated here in relation to the REGOS pooling of data is a good thing and will certainly be innate, if, of course, this law is implemented as stated in the letter of the law, it will regulate better control of funds, lower abuses in relation to government obligations and better service for citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the Club of HNS representatives will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57949	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative, Ivan Shuker, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. So this is simply fascinating,... in action because look without new financial resources you will from one institution which is easier for me to speak than another policy option with a particular task I will later create a single mega-institutional institution that will bring light into the public finances of the Republic of Croatia. So as one institution that has worked so far, I'm going to talk about it later, just one small part of the job without additional financial resources now doing a megajob like this. However, happiness still serves the memory well in 2002 someone remembered that HZZO and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute no longer need, with almost similar rhetoric is not good, it is not good quality, it will be done by the tax administration far better, far more quality, everything will be seen and so on. REGOS was then established as support for voluntary pension funds i.e. for the second pillar of retirement. It was even problematic, and it was me for years when I was a minister trying to change. However, there was no agreement with these four voluntary pension funds that they were financing. It is illogical that you pay 80, 90 or 100 million kuna a year from the budget, as much as it costs REGOS to raise funds for private funds. Because voluntary pension funds is a private savings for every Croatian citizen who has decided for II. Retirement rate. And REGOS has therefore worked for years such a job, however, since it is so easy to say that in some years it is necessary to know that until then there was a Croatian Pension Insurance Office for craftsmen, workers and farmers. And the question is how much was transferred to the tax administration in order for the tax administration to be in charge of taxpayers of that tax. But we're where we are. And now one elemental question is being asked. If REGOS is going to do this, everything that the IRS is going to do. And let us not confuse the concept of the Croatian Institute for Pension and Croatian Health Insurance. The Croatian Institute for Pension and Health Insurance at the moment is a clean administrative, administrative unit, which, according to legal regulations, issue a certain solution or say someone does not have the right to something. Well, after all, and when you adopt the budget, you have those financial plans, so you'll see that these are practically just money for wages and some kind of petty other cost. The Croatian Pension and Croatian Health Insurance Institute has nothing to do with this part of the charge. If the amendment of the law says that a form will be used to record and how much a person has to pay taxes and how much a person has to pay a cut. And if that form will record how much someone needs to pay pension, health care and how much they have to pay in the second pillar and that this will be taught in the tax administration, then the logical thing is that REGOS continues to take over what his job is and that is to support voluntary pension funds. And it's not good, it's not right against the people in the IRS to say that you don't know how much money anyone has paid. That's just not true. Get into the information system, look, the minister is all funny he's just, just this great. See, then, tell that to your minister that the record that existed has been lifted. Because every month, tax administration forms are delivered neatly. There he is, now a man throws, if I threw him, then I'd be rude. ... So, colleagues and colleagues. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder: Ministers don't.]] This assembly has passed a unanimous Law on personal identification numbers just so we don't have this kind of perpetum mobile happening to us. It is simply institutions that are trained to collect and other institutions that need this information to come under clear, precise protocol to this information and to be at the service of citizens. So it was an OIB function. Say that the Croatian Institute for Pensions, Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Tax Administration and REGOS will connect into one whole and that whoever wants to roll according to taxpayers' data is simply ridiculous. So you in the tax administration know exactly who is in charge of which taxpayer and no one on the side can enter that system and watch the bookkeeping of that taxpayer. So nod your head as much as you want, so don't say it's going to enter the unique system. If it is said that it will enter a unique system then it is understood that everyone will be able to enter the system and look at something. So, but I'm saying it's true. The other thing is, does REGOS have trained people who will say I'm going to Agrokor, INA, it doesn't matter if a big company or a craftsman is going to do the accounting and payment control? There isn't. Even under the law, he doesn't have the right to do that. These are special powers, which are based on positive legislation in Croatia, signed by the finance minister for inspectors. And therefore, these provisions that REGOS will control simply do not stand. No man from REGOS can have that kind of authority to go into control because he simply can't have it. And that's what it says here. It says. Look at yourself and you'll see. The second thing, I don't know what you meant by Article 18 of the State Administration in charge of state affairs, the Treasury will send the data to the REGOS by electronic means in paid pension contributions based on individual capitalised savings. Look, there's $50 million coming to the treasury for you today, and you only have 50 million and no other information. You don't. You have someone who paid if it's 50 or 100, but you don't have a citizen in the treasure, you don't have that information, because you don't have it. Because the company's paying into the treasury a sum of sums. And the information on how much anyone in that sum is paying you has a tax administration. And therefore, the treasure can't give you that information. Because one company INA, Agrokor or someone else when they have a salary bill doesn't write 15 or 20 thousand virtuals or transfer orders any way you want, pension payments for so much, but a pension checkout has a checkout and a total for all pension workers so much and so much is paid. But according to the forms sent to the tax administration, etc., you can see the records and every company is obliged to deliver, I don't know which one it is now... or which form is based on how much each citizen of Croatia has paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, there is nothing REGOS ask of the treasure, for they deliver to you in the treasury the amount of the payment. Why? Because that treasure just doesn't have the information. But if he wants information on this, that's what the IRS does because the IRS has that information. And that's why I'm saying, read article 18, and you'll see that that's not the case. Article 11, so I say this law simply, I can't believe it. In order to carry out operations within the framework of its activity, the REGOS shall provide the State budget with compensation, from compulsory voluntary pension companies and pension insurance companies, from revenue made under the laws, regulations and other sources. Look colleagues and colleagues, at this point REGOS is only funding from the state budget. What you get only from the state budget and most of that money you go to service the information system, most of it. What they get from the side is very little for you, and such a provision of the law simply means nothing to you. It just doesn't mean anything to you. Look at the old provision, and you'll see that it's been defined how much money must be given from the budget. Why, because REGOS annually costs almost 100 million kunas and it's not small money. And the logical thing is if he works for voluntary pension funds, if they take out 200 or 300 million kunas a year for money management, then the logical thing is that the data that someone else collects for them to pay him. Is that so or isn't it? That would make sense to me because the second pillar of retirement is practically a record kept for every citizen, and REGOS... that's why REGOS was founded. REGOS was not founded because of this solidarity savings the minister spoke of. That's what the IRS used to do, and HZMO used to do. REGOS was founded exclusively to support voluntary pension funds, and when you look at funding, nothing is defined, nothing under God's love. I've already told you about overlapping, see article 13. It collects data on insurance and other persons in accordance with a specific data processing regulation. Data formation on basics and accounts of contributions to pension insurance of workers paid by employers to contribute to the financing of compulsory insurance shall be made according to the daily basis by means of coupons, etc. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Employment’ policy area of the ‘Employment’ policy area. The only way you can do that control is if you go out in the field, you can't have that control in your office, and the employees in REGOS don't have that kind of authority. These are employees... special powers that can be exercised, you know it well, both in health care and in culture and in construction and in finance and in the economy there are so-called. supervisory inspection services and these are civil servants with special powers. He can come to the firm, no one will let him dig through his papers because he simply doesn't have that kind of authority. So he delivers, no, no, it's clearly defined. I've worked too long in an institution that does such a job and that's why people get embarrassed. You exactly have to have the prescribed, if you give them the authority to go to the field, to exercise control then they must have special authority, but that they may request the basis of the law and the basis of these forms to confirm that something has been paid and how much it is the second pair of shoes, but it is not control. It's not classical control. And all that can be obtained from the IRS based on this pattern, all that can be obtained from the IRS. And that's why it's not good, Mr. Minister, that one system that's been stalking itself, no matter what you think of it, is that you're now duplicating the work of something and someone who's only done one part of the job, giving them powers for which they simply have no knowledge. With all due respect to the people who work at REGOS, they don't have enough knowledge to do this job. They don't. They were exclusively to say the records, they got the forms, they got the data, they entered it into the system electronically or manually, and they watched and controlled it. And if someone needed confirmation to send him once a year and it was practically sent to him by those four voluntary pension funds, they sent him confirmation of how much his savings were, and that was only the accounting regos did for them. You're raising the REGOS up three or four steps up, which I don't think is right. Control should be in one place and it's the IRS. But it's not, see if you give someone some unspecified authority then you can't tell... but simply read it to yourself and you'll see it's not like that. And so I repeat, REGOS should simply remain what it is. Political bickering and politics do not require a story that has not been arranged, something has not been done because if something had not been arranged, made and constantly unable to publish the list of debtors. And when we are on the list of debtors, here is the REGOS given by the authority of Article 31, says the REGOS is authorized by the basis of the payment control carried out, all the while ensuring that there is no control, without the consent of the taxpayer, accounting or paying through its websites, to publish a list of non-revocable contributions to pension insurance by the basis of individual capitalised savings. And do you really think that because you announce to someone that you haven't paid a contribution to the second pension column, something will be achieved and given such a great right that because of some interest of someone or something, it's enough for you, you can be three or four days late for paying your contributions, and you can simultaneously report to a competition, and you haven't paid because that company that was supposed to pay you in a pre-departure settlement and someone hands you in the paper and you don't get a job contest even though you were the most favourable because you might have paid contributions of 2-3 days or 10 days. So nothing, this is simply an invitation to one link of taxpayers who simply won't give any results and one institution is given powers that simply don't belong to it. REGOS should continue to be a transport and support for 4 voluntary pension funds, and we leave this second to the institutions of the Republic of Croatia to do their job. So if on the one hand we boast that the IRS is doing a great job, then let's say we're doing this, don't offer a perpetum of mobiles that will eventually become a freighter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57951	On behalf of the SDP club, a respected colleague, Dubravko Bilic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57952	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, Deputy, Assistant, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. I'm sure actually that when the minister was in that opening part of the address he didn't think everyone would have the right to understand the data but that he was aware of the importance of protecting personal data and that this protection was embedded in this system. Here we started, actually, a fellow Shuker has a little bit of a politicized this technical actually topic. But this is actually a small law that governs the REGOS powers and powers that have so far been established by different regulations, as the minister has already pointed out. This technically to say the law provides the system to pensioners, to all employees who pay their funds into compulsory pension funds or to the system of individual capitalised savings a clear, reviewed and electronically developed system which ultimately controls their assets. REGOS is also a national access point, access point for connecting with other access points of the Union member states in the social security system, and thus REGOS becomes a competent institution for the relationship of age, disability, and the provision of over-lived family members in the context of compulsory pension insurance based on capitalised savings. This makes us ready to comply with European rules on the coordination of the social security system by electronic data exchange in the process of achieving the rights of European citizens. This system should be revived by mid-2014 because most data exchanges today take place between authorised institutions through ordinary postal shipments, etc. paper base communication that is slow and insecure. Of course, through the AIF system or the electronic exchange system of information on social security, information collapsing will speed up and make it safer for individual users to respect all modern personal data protection systems. In this segment, it should be pointed out that in this law, personal data sets that individual authorised institutions from the Ministry of Finance to the Funds can also be used in their regular activities. Finally, it should be pointed out once again that REGOS is, in fact, the primary register without entering these administrative tasks in electronic form, thus ensuring full and timely information on receipts, and the calculated and paid amounts of contributions for pension insurance. This, of course, leads again to a more coherent and secure processing of personal data, to avoid the discrepancies that occur in certain institutions that process this data, and which again leads to greater security for citizens, and will therefore support the SDP club's adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57953	Thank you. There's a colleague named Ivan Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57954	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57955	Please turn on the microphone so everyone can hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57956	My colleague Bilic, I'm really sorry that you took my debate as politics. But what you've read unfortunately suggests that you don't understand how the system works with full respect without intent to offend you. It's just not how the system works. If you've established one institution for something and destroyed several institutions and given something to a third institution to work, then it's illogical that after a few years, that system you've been stalking from it now you're doing some sort of mega system and you're doing dualism, parallelism, whatever you want between the IRS and this. It's another thing, buddy. The unique information system means everyone who is in it can access the data if they want to. It's a unique information system. Yes, it is. In the financial section, yes, and that information connection is something else entirely. It's something else entirely. The OIB implies an information connection that could be withdrawn and exchanged at a given time, and all is acquired and placed in the central register of the Tax Administration. And that's why this whole story doesn't make sense. That's what I'm talking about. And so the unique system means you, when you go inside, you can enter that unique system, and it's not. The unique system and information connection are two different concepts. So some, yesterday, we talked about social care because me and the minister agreed on most things. A bunch of things in social care were created because you didn't have an information system. In the end, the social case in Zagreb or somewhere else is two different concepts. Unfortunately, both were faced with the same problems, both here and here. REGOS should be supporting the second pillar of pension, and the Croatian Pensions Institute with the Tax Administration is doing this for this law that we discussed today. And then it'll be effective and good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57957	Reply to the replica of counterpart Dubravko Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57958	Thank you, Vice President. I didn't mean to say political but politically colored and that's actually a big difference. When you talk about this unique information system, of course, that everyone who enters that system can enter the basis of powers and it is only known who has the authority for what level of viewing certain data, so that it should not and should not be possible to breach the protection of personal data, so that this system as well as any system dealing with information processing must be regulated in this way. I'm sure the ministry also took great care of the protection of personal data so as not to have an unauthorized review of personal data from certain insurance companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57959	The closing word belongs to Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57960	Here's the Honorable Vice President. Well, here's during the discussion of Mr. Shucker's esteemed representative, I wanted to warn him several times that he's speaking wrong, but here's the chance to say it. So, the IRS stays there where it is. Taxes are the one that collects data, except now for the first time, they're going to collect data all of it. So what we had on the RSM pattern and what we had on M1, M2, 6 forms goes into one, ideas and all the rest, all 6 goes into one and enter the IRS. After that, the IRS distributes each part of its data and, of course, the REGOS will neither look at tax data nor look at data for each individual. But on the other hand, we made the IRS look at the expenses at the level of the month, so at the level of the individual so not only together, not just businesses but employees. And we'll have that unique data for the first time. And we don't break down the system at all, the IRS remains the one who oversees, controls the payment of contributions, and what REGOS will do, will do what he's done and boredom, which is to control payments and payment schedules. When we talk about posting on the web, it's not a debt announcement, but at this point we always have about a hundred, 150 million kuna of non-refundable payments that we don't know who they're going for because it's not filled with the correct form can't be paired. Therefore, REGOS has not had the authority to clear that up with whoever made the payment. Now he will have the opportunity to clear it up with the one who paid it to finally make that account then and in that account come the funds and stand the funds that are owned by those who are in the second pillar. Therefore, neither will REGOS publish the debtors themselves, nor will it impose debts, that is the power of the IRS, it remains the control of the collection and everything else. The Croatian Pension Insurance Office will have its share of the contribution payment. Therefore, for the first pension pillar of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, payment of contributions to health insurance. So that's what this law is going to do, so we don't crash the system, but we're improving it. Everything stays the way it was, maybe the law-reading might have been a little prone to you after all, but you're the IRS kid, so then you know more about that system. Thus, what is certainly certain did not occur to anyone to destroy the system. The IRS remains a data collection, data processing and data distribution centre, the part that REGOS must have and the part that these others should have. When it comes to costs, the data of the 113 million kuna are the costs of REGOS. From how much we collect from the funds, so 2.5 kuna, we annually receive 46 million kunas from the funds. Therefore, it is not all about the burden of the budget, but almost half of the funding comes from the funds themselves. So I hope that you will support this law because the law does not destroy the system, it improves it, and when we talk about a unique system it means that the data will be distributed to every part that is but of course no one from REGOS or these other parts will have any insight into this part that has only the IRS. Neither REGOS nor the Pensions Office nor the Health Insurance Office will impose debts and control debts. When we talk about control we're talking about payment control. So when the money comes from the treasury along with a unique pattern where you will see exactly who these funds belong to will be transferred to the accounts. Therefore, we stabilize the system and what I said with this unique pattern we will finally have insight into individual salaries, and we will also have in how much in a particular sector in the country we have paid not to judge it. So that's one big help and the State Statistics Institute when we talk about wage policy. Here, so I hope the HDZ Club will also support this law. I note that nothing in the system changes, no one gets more power, the only authority we have regarding the control of contributions, the collection of contributions, forced collection of contributions still has the IRS and that is the power of the IRS and no one is going with this law is anything hurt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57961	Thank you, Minister. We have a replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57962	Thank you very much. I'm not afraid at all for what will be with the IRS, she'll always have enough work to do regardless. The IRS was never happy, that we understand each other, when she got this job, but she got one terribly messy record that wasn't cleared up by today, and I'm all scared, and now I'm going to say it openly, which is going to be with some insurance companies that the IRS never got the paperwork for. Well, speaking of mess, that's a good thing. However, Mr. Minister, I have very carefully read this law and everything I have said you can check so you will see how many undefined provisions you have in there. Because you're saying one thing, it says the other here. You may have thought so, but that's not what the law says. Because if you say control, control is meant to be what it is, but people who work in REGOS don't have that kind of authority. So, they can't control, they can ask, they can get to match the records. Also from the treasury you can't get the information. There's a cashier's payment in the treasury. Today the treasurer comes this big or today no more, there used to be a bunch of copies, today you get on the disk and the treasurer doesn't even care who paid what he paid, the treasurer has and she'll give the summation to the minister, he'll give you or the Prime Minister that for the pension payment so much and so much. But if we're talking about what the IRS has been insisting on for years, then others have been disagreeing for years, and I'm glad there's this one pattern, but it's the IRS that's going to give information and reroute REGOS information. But it's not good for those who weren't in REGOS to be pushed into REGOS. REGOS should continue to support the second pillar of pension, and the Croatian Pension Foundation should continue to support the solution it issues according to this law, which we discussed today with the Tax Administration based on the data it has to issue solutions to how many Croatian citizens will have a pension in the future. And then we achieved what you said was two separate things. We have on the one hand a solid savings, and that's this contribution, and on the other hand we have this voluntary payment where there's practically individual savings and it needs to be separated. If we're going to separate it then let's not push into the same bucket of two different cabbages. You understand?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57963	Thank you, fellow Shuker. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57964	Thank you very much. I believe that in the end we will agree, so probably in the second reading we will have a text that is. So, we all agree. So, the IRS is doing its job, the REGOS is doing its job, which is what we're glad the IRS is doing, so the IRS is getting closer to the attitude of others, so this unique pattern is one common product of all those who participate in this part. Natural tax has data it will distribute data according to REGOS, REGOS will deploy data and restore information to the tax and then deploy funds. From the treasury you get information about how much money, and given that on the other hand you have a pattern coming in that these coins are being distributed, you know exactly how much money goes into the first as much as in the second column, so here comes the amount of money. This is what the treasurer gets so much money is paid for, not any personal data that comes through the form. I hope in the second reading we have a common harmonised law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57965	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57966	Proposal for a Central Insurance Register Act, first reading, PZE No 508. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals, the work of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for a Central Insurance Register Act, 1 August, is hereby adopted. Any comments, proposals, opinions will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. I beg your pardon, who's to suggest a conclusion? Thank you. Who's against the conclusion? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? There is. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 13 votes against and two abstentions have been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57967	We continue with: - Final proposal of the Law on crafts, second reading, P.Z. No. 370 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy. You received the reports at the session. We have Minister Gordan Maras with his associates. Here you go, Minister, intro.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57968	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. I see these writings, so I got a little confused to see what it was about. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Short around the final proposal of the Law on Trade means the second is reading, we had the first reading somewhere at the end of the spring this summer and based on discussions based on the additional consultations we proposed a law which is a new law so far we have had changes and I would only briefly present the most important things that have changed compared to previous provisions and the previous first reading that we had said a few months ago. The law defines the legal framework for the economic activity of doing crafts in the Republic of Croatia at this time 82 thousand craftsmen, around 1.4% of these craftsmen have each employees means 120 thousand plus craftsmen means somewhere 200 thousand people in the crafts industry and it is very important that they are, of course, the people most affected by the crisis because of their size because companies that have more employees could always make certain savings and in a way that they fire a man or a reduction in the size of business, and these are usually people who hired their family and others and of course they couldn't do it. The trend that has been this crisis since the start of the crisis in 2008 has been negative so that 30 thousand turns are less than they were then. We hope that this legislative framework will allow people to have new benefits at less risk, or we are sure that this legislative framework will allow people at less risk to carry out their business, to have some new benefits, and in some ways to have something more suitable for the craftsmen themselves and in a way that takes care of their safety of business in order to have lower costs, lower risks of having a greater opportunity to help within their families without certain misunderstandings when this family can help, etc. But to start from the beginning, the most important question for us that is governed by this law is the question of liability of property. You know that this is also a question marked by previous laws on crafts and debates and that we have a situation that during these difficult times in Croatia there have been executions for 10, 20, 30 thousand kunas where people were left without real estate and we have decided to introduce into the law the issue of regulating the responsibility of craftsmen for the performance of craftsmen in such a way that it will no longer be possible to complete the craftsman for the obligations that exist in the execution of craftsmanship, the housing space necessary to meet the basic housing needs of the performers and persons required under the law to maintain. And one more thing that is very important is that it will not be possible to work to achieve the monetary demand against craftsmen on those things and rights that could not be exercised against him if he did not carry out economic activity, and on those things and rights that are necessary to carry out his economic activity if he is the main source of his means of life. So these are two provisions that are in line with the Implementing Law and which are in line with this moment in Croatia and indifference and difficult situations economic. And I once said because of a debt of 10, 15 thousand kunas were people and the performance of the real estate needed to live or block things where the craftsman carried out his activity. And that's the elemental protection that we have made possible by law and that will enable me to say unfortunately not to a small number of craftsmen who are in a difficult situation to deal with with less risk with their business. The other thing is the transfer of crafts for the life of craftsmen. This thing is particularly important to us, given that every year some 2.5 to 3,000 craftsmen are entitled to retirement and that when they retire they have not been able to pass it on to their family but have been able to do so in a variety of ways. We have now made it possible for people to enjoy a well-deserved pension like all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and that they can transfer their crafts to the ropes of family members so that this job can continue and we know that it is usually about family business that goes from generation to knee so that it is a need that has been shown and that we have included in the law. The third thing that is important is the abolition of a list of activities that can be carried out as domestic activities and secondary occupations and the regulation of conditions for carrying out the same equal to the crafts. It is that we have a lot in Croatia I would say people who occasionally deal with certain affairs where we wanted to enable, of course, in accordance with legal regulations, which define certain activities, there is nothing possible to do in a gray zone and without respect of the law but only in the legal regulations that apply. But up to 80,000 kunas so that people don't get crazy in a way that they have to open a company or that they have to open a trade, but they can do occasional jobs. To get close to it can be, for example, final accounts, it could be making souvenirs, etc. So far, we have had a list of some 50 activities, but these activities were not life-saving or, for example, mushroom picking, etc. Here we have allowed everything that is in accordance with the law to be done. Of course, people have to issue bills, have to have an application, in their tax returns at the end of the year, so that none of them are in a more favourable position because at the end of the year will have to register the additional income in the tax application and pay the tax. What is more favourable is for pensioners who are no longer in retirement because they have fulfilled that obligation and have a more favourable ability to do business, do not have to freeze pensions, can work, possibly do something else and earn something to improve their pension status. And that's basically the main aid, I'd say and those people are gonna use this option the most. So people who are retired who can still do certain things and thus fix the home wake because they will not be paid to anyone else because in the tax application they must have recorded this as an additional income and pay a new, not new but higher tax, because their basic salary is already taxed at lower rates. So it's a provision that's used up to maximum at this point means 10 gross wages, so here we are, at the moment of the bill's proposal, written at a maximum of 78 thousand 630 depending on how it varies gross wages, so it's going to change and it's not going to significantly separate, it's going to be about 80 thousand kuna. The performance of crafts by a legal person is also one thing that is corrected in relation to the previous law and it is important because in the past law it was written to mean that legal persons can carry out business-related crafts and only if it is not carried out and carried out in a non-industrious manner. So what it meant was no one could interpret it. We had a situation where, for example, in Croatia, I will tell you only one thing, so you have more than 30,000 registered entities in the catering industry, half registered as a craft, half as d.o.o. and we in the records d.o.o. that perform business-related crafts have everything somewhere around 2,000 companies. So in other words, we had a situation in Croatia that could not be verified through this law that was previously in force. And then we decided that we would work exclusively in those companies that have a learning program. For what? Because what if someone goes through a teaching program in a company then you should mean to that same as the one who teaches it should have the same qualification. And that's what we think is right, I hear some laugh from the gallery, I don't know if you've noticed Yeah, I recognize those guys from the craftsman's chamber, so here's to say hello. [[I heard the ministers, go on. And I would ask visitors at the gallery to refrain.]] It's the gentlemen of the crafts chamber, but I tell you Mr. Schucker out of kindness, it's not that, so I love that direct contact with craftsmen, so I'm saying that, not to belittle someone. [[Intruder: Batinić: Here you are Ministers, proceed.]] There you go. So you're a real boy to me, too. No, I don't. So here we go. Anyway, so we put that provision in place because the law that was so far in force was not life and was not implemented, or that provision was not defined in the way it was meant to be. Now, since in Croatia you can also perform almost any activity as d.o.o. and as a crafty interest is of course the state that people work, whether they will work as craftsmen or as d.o.o. The state's interest in the first hand is that, which means that as simple as possible without any obstacles, the uncertainty of the possible I would say inspection penalties can work if consumer protection is secured and a match is secured. And that's the proposal we put into law. As far as the next amendment is concerned, there is a reduction in the amount of membership fee in Croatia's craft chamber. And the very clear message that this government promotes at all times is the reduction of certain costs of the economy, the parafiscal burdens that we have already partly reduced, but on the other hand, that all associations, all chamber organisations must especially when it comes to the economy, have to find their own space on the market. So they must find those who will benefit from their services and must find those who will be willing to pay for that benefit, that is, for what they benefit. And this proposal we made is essentially a step, as I called it, a step towards voluntary membership and in the Chamber of Commerce. Of course that's how it's going to go in the Chamber of Commerce because that's how it has to be. So those who use services must be aware of these services, must see their interest and be willing to participate in these services so that they can ultimately have a much more measurable situation than we have now. So, the option is either to go I would say immediately on a voluntary story or membership or to go in this way where the chamber will necessarily have to enter into reform and this is the introduction to the reform of the chamber system because it is more as such unsustainable in Croatia. So we are witnessing a very large dissatisfaction with the chamber members in Croatia, and this government is very determined to change these things and to move on to voluntary membership within a certain period. This is a step to this, and this law defines that the chamber contribution cannot be greater than 2% of the non-taxable share of the basic income deduction, or 44 kuna per month per craftsman, which in our view will be a significant discharge of craftsmen. But on the other hand, it leaves the possibility for chambers, craftsmen's associations to offer certain services that someone will use and pay, that on the other hand they may also have something called voluntary contributions. If someone wants to participate more than is the obligation of the Assembly of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, so that nothing closes there and the chamber has a whole series of opportunities to organise its business. Of course, on the basis of discussions between the representatives and HDZ clubs in the previous reading, we have appreciated this, so we should not go into details about how they will be elected, which will be governed by relations, it is not the state's interest and on the other hand they can do it in the way that members and members want it to, but I would also say a more proactive approach to the chamber towards those members and members in a way that they offer services that they use and that they want to pay for it. So that's where we changed from the first reading, there's no more choice directly as it was suggested, but it's definitely going in the direction of volunteering and participation on the basis of desire, not on the basis of morality, because when you have a participation based on morality it's de facto tax, parafiscal imposition, obligation, monopoly and there's no choice. And we want to give people a choice and we want to make it in a certain period, whether it is a year, two, three, that the chamber can move painlessly to a voluntary membership and live on its services that must be measurable and will be very clearly measured then how many people want to use the services, how much they want to participate, whether they need 120 associations in a way that there is an employee everywhere because you need to know that at this point over 300 people are working in the crafts chamber, in the Chamber of Commerce 650. So this is all paid by Croatian craftsmen and Croatian entrepreneurs and some things simply have to change there. Not to speak, but still it's not the job of the state, but as a politician I have to comment on and such things that it's unacceptable that somewhere in the chamber is the average gross salary in some... 16-17 thousand kuna, average gross salary somewhere 7-8, those who of course have I would say a little more consideration to their members. So that's the way things have to be set up and then when it's done in one marketable, normal, accessible way then people won't even have the capacity to pay for that contribution and they'll probably want to participate in the chamber system itself without any questionnaires and without any kind of I'd say the objections to that and that's what we decided to start with. This provision will apply from 1 January 2014. Since there's a certain concern whether it's too small or too small, I'll just tell you one brief analysis. So the Chamber System of the Chamber of crafts annually, according to the 2012 data, had a total of 130 million kunas of revenue of which, somewhere under 100 million kunas were related to a mandatory contribution, 30th and a slightly more million kunas were related to donations, sponsorships, services offered and, for example, those public powers remained with them. It's about master's exams, so besides that, 30th and slightly more than a million kunas have come in. With this reduction, this chamber contribution will be halved to slightly more than 50% and again the entire system will remain intact if no offers and some new services remain at 70-80 million kuna per year. When we compare this to, for example, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which has about 250 million kuna per year and when we look at the ratio of GDP to GDP, the economy means HGK covers 95% of GDP, the Chamber of crafts or crafts of around 5% of GDP, we think it is possible to organize the chamber system and this proposal that is here on your desk. Otherwise, of course, it is not possible if everything remains the same and if it does not go into serious reform of the whole system from whether or not it is necessary to have three levels of organization to everything else. But when you have as some people say it can be covered with as much as you have and if you limit and reduce the burden on craftsmen, then of course that will be one motive to make it more significant and faster into reform. If you leave it all the way it was, then nothing changes for years. So we decided to split it from the first proposal into two percent to motivate the Chamber of crafts to a slightly more proactive approach and to reform the entire system. I don't know... to interfere inside and say that it should be in one way or another, but it will clearly be a signal to both craftsmen and all those who use the system as it flows all together and of course that the future will carry certain conclusions whether it works or does not work and whether it is the right step and whether it is ultimately the solution to what we have talked about, which is a voluntary membership. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to shrinking, it means restricting the chamber's contribution one part of the obligations we've relieved the chamber of not being, that one part of the public commitment has remained. It is that the process relating to scientists or professional training in secondary vocational schools will now be coordinated by the Professional Education and High School Agency. Otherwise I honestly into this, so in two years of office I've met a very good system of secondary vocational schools and I think we have very high-quality schools and there won't be any problems, that we'll still have I'd say quality educated young people who will be dating those schools and who will be trained for the professions we need. Of course, the market always dictates the most needs, not whether we have a chamber or not involved in that story. The market is that which requires certain qualifications, a particular interest. But what I was convinced was that everyone who finishes high school, almost everyone who approaches the exam, means a large percentage of almost 100% who joins the exam, the assistant exam at the HOC, and they end up, having a high-school testimony they get and pass the auxiliary exam and become, get a qualification and diploma from the Croatian crafts chamber. So, we had two steps, now we will have one step based on the degree will automatically get the status of assistants and there we have in some way transferred the entire coordination, organization, contract records between craftsmen and scientists to the Professional Education Agency, professionally in order to say in part and disbursed the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen what is going on so that they can also more, a little more devote themselves to this part of offering services to craftsmen who are on the market in terms of helping sell their goods and services. One thing that is also very important is the Institute of Helping Family Housewives. So far, we have had a defined situation where a craftsman could only be helped in his presence at work. Here we wanted to enable that, without establishing a working relationship, a craftsman can be helped by members of a rope family whether he is present or not, of course, if it is about the occupations required by a particular education means or the master's exam that this family member must have. So we're going to allow the de facto twist and define what is and is like a family business where members of the family will be able to help whether or not the craftsman is present or not because he's also been a problem, because usually help is needed when a craftsman is not present, and not when he's present, so I think it's going to be one big help to the craftsmen, and in the end, that even the misunderstanding that the inspectorate once had toward the craftsmen is going to remove it. So here's the change from the first reading. The final proposal for the Law on crafts has brought into line with the provisions of applicable rules in the field of education and education in order to ensure the smooth inclusion of persons in the labour market, i.e. continuing education. So that's very important for us to have what follows the needs of the labour market, to follow through with education. Here we define the co-operation of the minister responsible for education and the previous consent of the minister responsible for crafts to have communication, i.e. to ensure that the education de facto has its own ministry is responsible for the process of overall education, for all professions and for all schools. But since it's about the craft and the curricula that's important for the craft that it must have the consent of the Minister in charge of crafts to in some way have the best coordination between the two ministries. And of course, the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education, which must be included, given that this is also about a lot of craftsmen who are also requalified, i.e. over the course of their lives, are further educated, changing professions, etc. Here's the short part about the law and the proposal. So, the law is in front of you, it's been a public debate since spring, first reading in the Parliament. On the basis of quality discussions, we see here you accept certain suggestions whether it came from the opposition or from the position it doesn't matter at all. The important thing is to make a law that is the best possible and that will allow people to work at less risk, with more help and with everything this government wants, which is that as easy as possible to run a business. Of course, I always like to point out that when we look at the trends of some last year, no matter how difficult the economy has been, it has led to the opening of the most new companies since the '90s. the year, so over 8 grand, or not past, but still this year, over 8 grand so we're reducing the number and the necessary permits to start a job, we're cutting the time. I think that these changes in this Law on crafts will also allow some people to take less personal property risks now to decide to start a business because the risk is always part of entrepreneurship, and since it's about people who say the least on the market, it's good that they have a slightly less risk than others. And I hope of course you'll pass the law because I think it's definitely a step, a big step forward compared to the previous law. Of course, we keep track of what is happening on the market and like all the laws and it can be modified in some part of the future. But I'm saying, as a minister, it's especially important to me that we move according to that rule, which is that when you use a favor that you want to use it and that you want to pay it in some way and see the value of what you paid for it. And that's definitely the voluntary association of chamber associations. Croatia is not a unique example, I will tell you that in the EU of 28 countries 22 countries have voluntary membership in chambers. Some major economies like Germany and Italy do not have but most countries, too, the vast majority of countries have and I think that we are also going in this direction, but no transition, no transition should be from today to tomorrow, but this way will be one good way for the chamber to adapt to that system and that in a few years we will cross to volunteer. I think the same will happen very quickly with the amendments to the HGK Act and it was announced by Minister Vrdoljak. So where systems are non-transparent, where there is no control, where you don't know what is being paid, where no one has access, where everything in the air benefits service in that situation happens unwanted things like we witnessed in the last days that happened in the economic chamber. So I think it's time that a little bit as some say we blow up the high-rises and let people decide on the market which services and how they will use and that ultimately they have the most possible benefit. Thank you very much, and I expect a quality debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57969	Thank you, Minister. We have a replica quite a bit. The first one came forward by Gyurjitsumrak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57970	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Nice greeting to the distinguished gentlemen of the craftsman's chamber. Dear Mr. Minister, at the beginning of your term, you promised craftsmen that you would open 13,000 new crafts, and so far you've said how many 105 thousand are closed. I will tell you in the City of Zagreb in the first quarter of 2013. 317 turns. Well, you, Mr. Minister, keep working on the chamber, the craft chamber, and you keep on doing what you'd say as a joke maher hunt. That's not your problem. These people have been working craftsmen for years. Don't teach them how to cry. These craftsmen can choose for themselves, they can tell for themselves that's a lot to us and they can tell for themselves what they want. In your discussion, Mr. Minister, you talked about the pleasure of a retired craftsman. Believe me, none of us, unfortunately, have time to enjoy this pension because with a wave of artisans at 70 years old and up to 80 years old die in their workshops. I would especially like to point you to the traditional trades, Mr. Minister. You didn't do anything, the leases were expensive, you didn't do anything, you raised VAT, you raised gasoline, you did electricity, and you still deal with how funds would be deployed in the chamber. So don't save anyone. Don't teach them how to cry. Help open those 13,000 crafts, give them and help them get these craftsmen to work and give them conditions to work. Do not close crafts productively and open different other automatic clubs and the rest of which you or someone else who deals with it can probably draw much more from a craftsman who works fairly and fairly, pays taxes and pays his workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57971	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57972	Thank you very much. Mrs. twilight, you're not informed. More than 13,000 crafts opened. ... The craft, no, didn't open in the first two years of my term anywhere near 16,000 turns. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So you're not very informed, but here's my information so next time in the discussion you can commend me for doing more than I said. And on the other hand, I don't want to go back to the '90s. But you'll remember how in the '90s it was retired and how the pension system was filled and how people were dealt with and how many hundreds of thousands of people were sent into retirement just so that privatisations, cleanups, etc. could be carried out. The problem of the pension system goes back to the '90s. Then the SDP was not in power but, no, no, I'm dealing with you said you couldn't enjoy it. I agree that I can't enjoy it because pensions are small, and because HDZ has created a nascarad pension system in the 1990s and that's the only truth. And unfortunately, I agree with you that craftsmen don't have very often high pensions because they don't even have high incomes but here we have allowed those who want to retire to transfer their trade to their family. What's wrong with that? I think that's a good idea. That's what all craftsmen welcome. And what craftsmen think about the law I will tell you, I like to consult and very often the last days people call and question when the law will be when they will come into force because many of these provisions need it. As for the contribution, believe me, the happiest would have been if I had stayed on voluntary membership, then no one would have dealt with any heights or amounts, but most of the craftsmen want that. So on that side we've done at this point what's at this point the optimum. That the chamber goes towards transformation into a voluntary story to offer services and protect those who need it most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57973	Thank you, Minister. The next replica of the Sun Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57974	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I'm going to ask you very specifically, given that I also have very specific questions for you and examples. You said that the current law as you said the law that was so far in force wasn't life. I'll tell you exactly the opposite in the education section. An example from Međimurje County from Technical, Industrial and crafts school that has been a direct example so far was the synergy of school and economy. So the students spent most of their practical part of their teaching in craft workshops, often staying there, getting their jobs especially when it comes to the meditative industry lately, and I think it was also an additional motivation for these young people to want to enroll in craftsmanship and to want to work in craftsmanship. That's one thing. Secondly, it is a very important synergy of vocational schools and craft workshops with the Chamber of crafts. In this way, I'm afraid they're isolated from one side of the vocational school, from the other side the craftsmen. I'm more hoping to be able to say in the debate, although I have some obligations later, so I'm just going to look back at the assistant exams that have been in the chamber's control so far. They themselves have made comments on this by referring to similar practices in countries in the context of, for example, Austria, Germany, France and the like will now be carried out by the Professional Education Agency. And I also don't feel sorry for why something that has been a testimony so far can't be called so that the testimony of the assistant title will already be a conviction, and that testimony was the document which was a guarantee of the quality of craftsmanship especially when we joined the EU, and I will first and foremost refer to the Međimurje County which has a crafts tradition and our young people could find a job in the countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57975	Thank you very much. We have Minister Maras' response. Here you go, Minister. My colleagues, time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57976	Well, Mrs. Glavak won't change anything. The students will continue to enroll in vocational schools. Well, it's not going to shut down professional schools by amending this law. There's a law on vocational education, there's a need for markets, there are people who work, nothing's going to change. There we simply went to the dispensation of a part of the public authority of the HOC without any thought or risk of reducing the quality of what we had so far. It won't shrink, I guarantee it. As far as these practices are concerned, as you said in the EU in other countries, I don't know if you're aware that among craftsmen, the vast majority of craftsmen are essentially service activities, and here I'm going to tell you the catering activity, the trade, the hairdressers, the cosmetics, you probably as with great interest go to practices in Germany in France in Great Britain. So whether or not they're going to Budapest to practice cosmetics from Chakovec. So believe me, there will be no risk or reduction of quality education, education. I told you in the introduction that all those who did and who passed the final exam at the vocational school, which will include both practical and practical, were in almost 100% of each of them getting assistant testimonies. That speaks enough about the quality of our vocational schools. They'll stay that way in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57977	I thank the ministers. My colleagues, Glavak, you have announced a violation of the Rules of Procedure to hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57978	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 238. well, it may not have been intentional, but the minister was talking about another topic, but I was saying the practices of the countries surrounding the ministers show us, not that the children will go to practice, so please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57979	I've got to stop this. This isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57980	And the minister talked so he couldn't hear me, so everything went wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57981	My colleague Glavak, there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. You're talking to both of you. I was focused on you, Mrs. twilight, not on your colleague. So there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure and let's not abuse that institute. Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57982	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Well, this article 36. So I can say it offends common sense. First you say you can't take something, and then you say if he signed it, then you can take it anyway. All craftsmen, if you do not know how to keep their business books neatly and in their business books, record their assets and account for depreciation. And I'm really surprised that you don't accept the proposal and the craftsman and the opposition MPs all the time talking about some sort of estate of craftsmen and that property to serve as some kind of stock to get some kind of credit. However, to be honest, one who reads this article in 36 will neither give credit nor go into some risky business with a craftsman without seeking a guarantee that you have defined in paragraph 4. It's just a fact. And we don't have to run from it, and that's something that unfortunately happens to people. Why? Well, we had a chance to see at the stock companies that I just couldn't get a loan. However, if we are aware that the traditional craftsmanship in Croatia is unfortunately extinct, I mean not traditional activities but craftsmen and craftsmen in the way they worked, today it is far simpler for a couple of kunas to start a company d.o.o. ... Someone and go... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The craftsmanship is the tradition and economic and cultural wealth of every country. And that's how we should treat it. And if we behave like this, I told you last time about this article in 36th, all the assets of the craftsman and even that space in the house if he's carrying out his activity it's not a house, that part isn't for housing, he's had to look for a repurpose of that space and it's a business space. And he's run in his business books and he has tax status. And it is well known what tax status means because at one point he returned VAT to it and tomorrow when he sold it he should pay for it. And so this article 36, just one sentence, can, unfortunately, lead most craftsmen into a very, very difficult situation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57983	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57984	And we've also left the possibility to be, and it's most often about a situation where someone's looking for a deposit on a real estate to give it up and there's a possibility that someone would want such a business...... Yeah, if he wants that kind of business money to do it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But we wanted to avoid what unfortunately happened to the debt, for example, to think of the family from Zadar who had not checked out, had not checked out her trade, so she had a commitment for about a year, and there was a commitment of several tens of thousands of kunas to the state of tax and then it was 13 years, and it ended up at several hundred thousand kuna at the end because they were not informed, because they didn't know that they had to cancel out the trades so that they didn't have a commitment to the state, eventually they stayed and finished their houses. Yeah. ... Look, Mr. Shuker, we're not, we're trying to make sure that people don't get a roof over their heads for 10, 15 thousand kuna. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I don't see what that's all about why you're so against it? Why are you personally so against it? In your first reading, you said the same thing. ... So I'm the same. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57985	Comrade Shuker, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57986	I'm the same... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57987	Because you're commenting and you didn't get the word and you're talking. I'm using the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57988	I'm the same for justice, I'm the same for justice, but I'm also for protecting people especially those who are the least on the market here. At least in those basic needs, which is that you have room for life. And if that's your basic source of income for life, you can keep working.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57989	Thank you, Minister. Next replica Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57990	I'm not, I'm not going to put myself on your side or your side of the craftsman, I'm going to say what I think. First of all, my vote, since we're a party that can when it's not organic laws to vote on how, by my conscience, I'll only vote for the law if it's going to say inside that it's a voluntary membership. You have made one mouse that I do not like, if two, 22 countries of the European Union had a voluntary membership, the chamber system set up on the principle of voluntary membership I think that Croatia should have. I'm saying this from personal experience and I've had d.o.o. which belonged to not crafts, but belonged to the Chamber of Commerce. In 20 years, I've never had the slightest help from this company. Please give your colleagues a moment to calm down there and chair the intervention. Mr. Shucker, calm down. ... Yeah. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57991	Comrade Shuker, I give you a reminder by taking away your word. Set up your colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57992	First of all, this law was fixed in the part where they spoke, when they talked about how the craft chamber was formed. You work too hard in the law only in the craft chamber. The craft chamber should be dealt with by craftsmen, not by the state. Remember how the statute was written, as Croatia's radio television was established, the statute defines itself. And you determine the structure of this law. So many things I will probably say later, there are many shortcomings, some of which you have corrected, but many of them you have not corrected. I don't even like the provision of temporary jobs, because that's how you remember the branch on which the craftsmen sit. I don't know if we can trust this country anymore when you say 16 thousand turns, every day we see more and more twists closing, unfortunately I'm running out of time Well, thank you very much. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57993	Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57994	Thank you very much. Mr. Vuksic, I told you initially, so this is a step towards voluntary membership. You know, in my performances, that I'm the advocate of voluntary membership being applied both in the Chamber of Commerce and in the Chamber of Commerce, but in this case, we decided that this is going gradually, so now we're going to go down to a reduction that amounts from more than 50% to a chamber contribution. And that will be, I would say the initial capsule for the crafts chamber to offer services that someone will want to use on the market and that in one period whether it will be a year or two question is, but to move on to voluntary membership. So that's what my goal is, and if that's your only concern about the law, I assure you, this is how we're going to get to it, so support this law. And as for the sides, there are no sides. So I'm after this law has been communicated and asked not only on a daily basis to communicate with craftsmen but we've made among craftsmen a relevant research agency, 73% of craftsmen support such a form of law. So I don't feel on the opposite side but on the same side with craftsmen, but you have to distinguish interests that rule in certain positions. Those who are a little bit louder, a little less loud, those who claim that the husband is all the latest, means there are various types and interests so that on that side I do not accept that I am on the opposite side of the craftsman rather than on the same side with a large majority of craftsmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57995	Thank you, too. We have reports of two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First colleague Ivan Shuker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57996	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 239. You have given me two warnings, and you have not said why, and Article 239 of this Rules of Procedure says: a representative will be given a warning if he acts contrary to Article 238 of this Rules of Procedure. If you've been able to talk to me about the raid for the first time, six people have spoken to me there and you've given me a warning but you haven't told me why. So if you wanted to give me a warning, you had to say I'm giving you a warning about it, that and that, and I'm asking nicely. You didn't do it, you hurt the Rules of Procedure, so you didn't give me a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57997	Comrade Shuker, I did not harm the Rules of Procedure because you, as a parliamentary representative, should know the Rules of Procedure, not perhaps every article by heart. Article 239 is not injured because it says: the representative will be given a warning if... contrary to Article 238. First and foremost, you have re-methyled the order at the session, secondly belittled or insulted the chairman, with your conduct you have deviated, meaning several items of Article 238. ... You didn't get the word of a colleague, don't speak from the bench. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. You can follow the Rules of Procedure and submit a request to the Statutes Committee and to the Rules of Procedure. ... Allow me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade twilight, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57998	I only support a fellow Shuker because that's what I was going to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u57999	Will you, too, tell you that there has been no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, will you file a request? ... I'm determining a five-minute break. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, I think you've had enough. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's the ten minutes so we can take a break. [[CONTINUE AFTER MEETING IN 18.10 HOURS]] Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58001	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It is indeed regrettable that the ruling coalition club has now stepped up by two men in a law that decides on hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens and an even greater tragedy is that opposition party vice presidents are being warned in this way. If you had been consistent, Mr. Vice President, then you should have given the memo to the minister at the time he threw the gentlemen to the artisans at the gallery because for the same reason you gave me a warning when I dropped the minister. After that, the minister threw it to me, and you didn't react. At the second warning, six people spoke. It never happened in this assembly that some MP got a warning about the marbles. The chairman warned that the speaker could speak and thus solve the problem. If someone is defending to take into account their rich life experience and I think I can say a lot, I know how craftsmen work, if someone is defending me to make arguments here by HDZ that are in favour of Croatian craftsmen, then let it be publicly said, but I cannot accept that as a elected representative in the Croatian Assembly someone takes me away from me without reason, for no reason. Every MP at a given time in this assembly throws something at someone. But I don't think anyone's ever offended anyone with that, it's more like sometimes collegiate and so on and throwing me and my colleagues Marasa away was never so that the two of us would be offended by each other, but obviously it's not the first time that I'm involved. I'd like you to have the same archaic as all the other MPs and you had no reason to if you'd already given me your first warning for a second warning. I am asking you nicely to withdraw your second warning that I can take part in the debate or else the HDZ Club will consider its further participation in the work. And to you if it is in the interest to pass a law that is contrary to how the Association of craftsmen of Croatia is against it and to pass that law. After all, you'll bring it. But you're also taking over, so I can even say historical responsibility for the future of Croatian craftsmanship. And therefore, I have never been in this House, no matter what, I've been a minister and I've had all kinds of incursions, etc. However, when both the president and the vice-president of the HDZ parliament were chaired, no SDP counterparts were ever, for this reason, or was taken away from him because of this, a word of the right to speak. So I really don't see the reason for what you've done, but I'm saying if you insist on it, we'll as a club think about our further participation, and also if this is not the first time I'm going to have to ask the Parliament's representative for protection as a representative and as a man because I just can't let you treat me the way you treat me. I'm saying if for your first warning, you might have had a reason, but if you didn't give the Minister a warning, then you shouldn't have given it to me, and for the second warning, you really didn't have a reason. Six, seven MPs were talking, maybe at some point the laughter might have been a little more sound than usual. It bothered my colleague Vuksic and there is no problem at all, you could ring the bell please allow your colleagues to work and if someone would continue to make a mess then a reminder is given. No, you immediately warned me of six people, did you estimate that maybe I laughed the loudest of all the MPs? So I simply think that this is not good and that the topic is too important, too important a subject, regardless of what some colleagues from the HNS are laughing but well, that's probably funny to them. However, not a single HNS representative has ever experienced anything similar from the chairman of the HDZ Assembly, although there has been an opportunity for that colleague, you are in this House only one term, there are colleagues who are a little more, but look at you now your Vice President of the Parliament has not given notice because watch sometimes you can provoke a man with laughter and gestures, you cannot provoke a man with voice expressions. And let's just say that I did it, I would certainly get a warning, but Mr. Chairman, I'm going to tell you in the end if you're already sticking to the Rules of Procedure as you speak, you shouldn't have given me a word at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58002	Comrade Shuker, I've given you a reminder by taking away your word. I didn't say for what period. I didn't say for what period I'm taking your word for. Secondly, you were injured with your resignation, speech on behalf of the Club Article 237. You have spoken of means that, for the purposes of disrupting the order of the precedent, the restrictive measures referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be executive and shall not be discussed. That about my tolerance, about my way of holding a session, everyone can have an opinion. I think I was much more than correct. You and your incursions have been remethyled several times, you've violated the order in the assembly, I think I've done the right thing. You've lifted a plate of injuries to a Rules of Procedure that wasn't there, and you and your colleague, Sumrak, and your colleague, Glavak, were not injured by the Rules of Procedure. I've been doing a good job, I'm up for a lively discussion, but let's be correct, let's be tolerant. I'll be tolerated and I'll let you argue if you're registered, I don't know if you applied for this hearing. But don't take this as a warning, but I'd like to ask you gentlemen of the craftsman's chamber, you for the rest of you colleagues in the Parliament to keep this House's dignity. Comrade Maric, you have announced a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58003	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. For the first time in six years, I've been reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure because you violated Article 239. Namely, more carefully reading: "Advocacy may be given notice if it does not act in accordance with Article 238 and not if it acts contrary to Article 238, because if it acts contrary to Article 238. ... but in breach of the Rules of Procedure if it does not act in accordance with Article 238." It is said that Article 238 if it interferes with the speaker in other ways with its incursions or in other ways. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] And my colleague Shuker did not act in accordance with Article 238, and he did not act contrary to Article 238, and I would ask that this ambiguity, here you take the obligation on yourself and to comply with these two articles because this excludes 239, 238. It shall not be punishable if an agent is acting contrary to Article 238 but only if he does not act in accordance with Article 238. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58004	Thank you for interpreting my colleague, Maric. I'll read to try to clarify here on site Article 239. "Advocacy will be given a warning if it acts contrary to Article 238 of this Rules of Procedure" 238. "In the course of the debate, the representative must not, This is already a subject for a philosophical debate. [[Intruder Maric: So he acts against what he cannot.]] I think we know very well what this is about, and I would ask you not to abuse what we have brought together, and here is an appeal from my colleague Shuker, I repeat again I will allow you to discuss if you are registered. My failure was in agreement, I didn't say what period I was taking away your word for, it wasn't my intention not to speak, but I would pray that we refrain from commenting and that this debate is going the way it should be. Now we will continue with the replicas, Frano Matušić replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58005	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We lost a little bit at the pace, but we remember everything the minister said. Mr. Minister, unfortunately, we can conclude that this law is the result of your conflict with the craftsman's chamber and that's what can be read from the bill but also from your approach. Unfortunately, the law is not the result of the ministry's dialogue with the Chamber of Commerce. So what's it supposed to be? Because it's the only way we can come up with a solution that will be accepted by craftsmen and for which craftsmen will stand and will be the foundation of their work. Unfortunately, he's a demonstration of your power towards craftsmen. But don't worry about it, every force of time. Be sure of that. And the other thing, when you talk about schools, craft schools couldn't exist if they didn't exist. They could not exist without a craftsman, who would teach these young schoolgirls who wanted to learn certain crafts, crafts, etc.? To take away certain instruments that are related to the operation of the craft chamber will indeed lead to the degradation of craftsmanship and it is clear to you by craftsmen, but with this message we agree, too, because this law must be the result of dialogue, not the monologue and demonstration of force by the ministry, and therefore this is indeed the last appeal that you really sit down with the Chamber to find the best solution because in this way you only charge the craftsmen and crafts chamber. So the chamber and its branches are run by craftsmen, so you know it very well. They themselves know best how to arrange this system to be truly effective and to be at the service and to the pride of all craftsmen. And the other thing is why you didn't advocate that the tax collector Linic doesn't do the errands for two, three, five, ten, more of the craftsmen who came into debt because the ones they asked for money didn't pay them because they were much bigger than the banks, etc. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58006	Thank you. Time. We have an answer. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58007	I think you, Mr. Matusic, have the wrong impression. There's no conflict. I'm proposing a law that I think is best. Well, you don't think I'm such a masochist that I'm gonna make a law that's gonna be bad for craftsmen so they can be mad at the Ministry and me. Well, I just told you before, so the agency that deals with it plus 73% of craftsmen back the law. Most of the things inside are acceptable to people. The vast majority is with very high percentages. What Mr Vuksic said earlier to be a voluntary membership, it wanted 77% of them but we took that step back of course with the goal of making it there gradually over a year. That is why we have reduced our contribution to allow the chamber to make its reform. But don't tell you to identify 82 thousand people with several thousand who are active in the chamber system. There's a much wider population, and believe me, it would never occur to me to suggest something that I think would be bad for craftsmen, because there's no need or purpose for that. And as for your will and strength, once HDZ has regained its citizens' trust, let it introduce a greater contribution. Let me put on a commitment as it has been so far and in an economic chamber without any control and in a craft chamber but I am convinced that citizens will not approve it and that that is why you will not get the chance to set yourself up in the future. You'll have an opportunity for eight or twelve years to change this bill, so fine, then you'll have the opportunity to return and increase the burden.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58008	Thank you, Minister. Time. Next replica, Branko Hrg, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58009	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Ministers, I would really expect that the ministry that the craft chamber wanted so much, caused the foundation to really go hand in hand with that same chamber and together try to find solutions to help craftsmen in Croatia or how to keep as many craftsmen in Croatia as possible because I don't know if we live in the same country, but this data you're saying doesn't match the data that we walk the country around Croatia regularly. It's that number of craftsmen. As far as I know, the number of craftsmen decreases from day to day. You said it was the most in the hairdressers and the caterers. So here's those hairdressers who basically have a specific situation in the business, so they're like doctors, you might say. They live with their first-haired customers who grow up to their death. Interesting. We never think about it. Have you considered how to help these hairdressers to repress this daily from various state inspections, remove the institution from their necks. Maybe this law should make it possible. That's why it takes a chamber to protect these unprotected people fighting for a place under the sun, for bread for themselves and their family because they can't protect themselves. Whether the chamber's working enough or not. Probably not. But I'd put it this way, if the ministry is paying for craftsmen, it is the consent of a craftsman in the survey how many percent of craftsmen think the ministry needs such as crafts and small entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58010	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58011	Mr. Hrg, you seem to be reading my thoughts. It's just the hairdressers thank me most that I have a little more needs to go to the hairdresser probably would never pay for the haircut, no, I probably would never pay for the haircut, but that's how nature wanted it, so I don't have that need, I'm getting a haircut myself. But I'll tell you why they thank me. They thank me for not knowing if you've taken this in the first two years of your term of office that we've raised our rate of entry into the VAT system from 80 to 230 thousand kuna. Do you know how many hairdressers have come out of the VAT system because of that decision and now they're much happier to cut from the crib to the grave. I noticed because of what a service activity is where there is not much input VAT. They all became more competitive, they remained, they didn't lower prices, they had those 25% to survive because that's what's really an interest that's not easy and I would say is traditionally in some way but they just had the biggest benefit of it. It's one of the moves. Here's the move that shows that this government and that I've fought for something that has helped these people very much, 25% of the money is left with them. On the other hand, of course, we don't use these polls in a way that we measure what they think about who and which politician they trade. But what matters to me is that the vast majority of craftsmen in that survey supported this law and that people call me every day and say when more laws will come into force, and the most criticism we experience is that we went to this modified model, which is not a voluntary membership that was applied immediately at the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58012	Thank you. The next replica is Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58013	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, here in this bill of law, in the second reading, you listed all the remarks you caught and which you didn't. However, there are those in the debate in the first reading that you do not mention at all, and they are very important. My colleague Shuker and I spent three hours in a first reading debate on Article 36 and there is no mention of why you did not accept it. The crisis and the great entrepreneurs didn't hurt anyone as much as the craftsmen because we want to help them with this law or finish them off? Let's say Maksimirska, we keep telling them how we're helping them, Maximirska, who I live in for 40 years, was the street of the craftsman, every ten meters was a craftsman, 50% of them closed in the last two years, 50%. You probably helped them raise 35% of the price of gas and electricity with excise duties on fuel and everything else. And when they want to register property guaranteed by a craftsman and to be entered into a crafts register, I don't know what motivates you that it's not inside, that it's not an integral part of the law. What's behind that? What's behind that? And who will do business with them if they don't guarantee anything? And most of them do business either in an apartment or in something that will not be charged or guaranteed. What Article 36 says first is that it guarantees total assets and then reading further does not really guarantee anything. This leads to a dangerous zone that no one will be able to guarantee neither the regularity of the works nor the bank will give him a guarantee instead of what he uses and what he acquires in craftsmanship, all the property, to guarantee it and what he enters into the crafts register. So why is there a register rather than a list of property? And if that's not against craftsmen, but that's what the amendment is, I don't know what has to be such a big reason and motive in the background that it's not accepted, and you don't even mention it in the explanation of this bill in the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58014	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58015	It is against what we discussed during the adoption of the law on both the working group and the government, and it opposes what people who have said about it professionally say that this is not possible. It's very simple. It is not possible to do this because you cannot separate the property of a natural person in a way that you have special for a craft, especially for a life. And on the other hand, it's not the separate property, it's the ban on the execution on one part of the property, so there's a difference between what you just said earlier and the fact that the property is divided because the property didn't split here, it's still in a commitment but it can't be carried out in one of the parts that we listed here. There was this variant. I wasn't reluctant to do that, but since we talked to the ministries that cover the legal issues of the judiciary, etc. Finally, there was a solution not to go into it because it was simply not possible to define it that way. So here's your answer. I didn't mind it just not possible to define the law that way but we found a model again to protect people from being left without a roof over their heads and without me I'd say the means to work if they needed to survive their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58016	Thank you. And the last replica of Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58017	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, respected ministers, since you have repeatedly mentioned the current HGK affair, in fact, only this confirms that perhaps this is not a good time for the biggest scandal in the history of chamber organisation in Croatia to actually be held in this debate. As I think not, colleagues have already said not really a moment at six, half seven evenings actually in a completely empty assembly to discuss such an important law as the Law of Turn. Now, on a human level, I actually fully understand your frustration as a minister of entrepreneurship, craftsmanship in this government that in the past two years has actually done almost everything to destroy entrepreneurship and craftsmanship in the Republic of Croatia and has made it difficult for him to recover. So I can understand it in some way, but that doesn't mean that this bill must be first full of contradictions, and the second one, past agreements and dialogues and agreements with 161 years if I remember the old crafts chamber well, and I have only one question in the end. I won't be long because I speak on behalf of the club, and the question is, You often say that HOC can provide some services and that power will provide services, so I'd just like to hear what services it is that you see that the Croatian Chamber of crafts can provide, especially if you're actually taking it away or transferring that whole educational segment to the resolution ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58018	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58019	I honestly don't see any connection between the affair and the moment the law was passed, we started to prepare the law, the first debate was almost six months ago so I don't know what should be done in Croatia now because the money was laundered in HGK as it would have been said, so on the other hand, I don't see any connection between that and this debate. I would love to, of course, but since the debate is in the morning hours, but what's there is also important laws tomorrow that will go, there is a budget etc. So given the captain's assembly, I'm glad I can present the law here at any time. As far as dialogue is concerned, there is always a dialogue but there is also one that proposes. So if you can't agree on everything then someone has to propose and say it again after all I would never suggest that I think this is bad and think there's no support for such a law among craftsmen and that tomorrow they won't be better off than they were yesterday. I don't think I'm going to be at risk of an institution 161 years old because there's plenty of space to keep it running, and as far as services are concerned, for example, these education services, those in Croatia, and that's one of the things I'm proud of in the Republic of Croatia that we have free education, it's never been charged or charged as far as high school and higher education is concerned, at least in the part where students carry out their duties according to those rules that the university has, and the service can be as much of the advisory services, the organisation of fairs, etc. There's no need for me now to elaborate on what they can offer, who's creative can always offer enough of what is required in craftsmanship.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58020	Thank you, Minister. We've exhausted the report for the replica. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club Mile Horvat, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58021	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome Mr. Minister with his associates. It's a rare case that a debate of a legal proposal will come full-time in front of the promoter, and I'm pleased. At the same time, I welcome the other interested party in this debate, and these are the people, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce. We said a lot in our first reading by discussing the proposal that was then the subject of the debate. Now in a few sentences, I'm going to try to tell the SDSS club's position on this very serious subject. First of all, out of respect for a category of activity called craftsmanship, we have a certain attitude toward it. I grew up with craftsmanship and mother and father tailors, at a time when the tailor could have had seven, eight and nine scientists but could never have had a loan, got a loan to buy a house, an apartment, a car. He didn't even have some kind of retirement, so he had to work on it to strengthen it anyway. I mean, the craft was never some kind of child system. He was always on some kind of conditionality to tell the other side of the non-popular side that was never attractive in society. That's why I need to say something about this ministry's efforts to sort of introduce some newspaper about how we're experiencing it, not to tear the system apart, but to get the system to quality. If this bill does this, time will show. In any case, this type of law can always be corrected even though life shows that it has some need for correction, if it shows some negativity, it can be corrected by simple or motionary procedures. So let's not look at this thing so dramaticly. I'm experiencing it as an attempt at craftsmanship, not talking about the chamber system now, I'm talking about an institution of craftsmanship to somehow introduce some more dynamic form that might be able to improve the position of craftsmen today. And the position isn't great. According to the data we got, it's terrible. They say there are over 33,000 insolvent craftsmen at the moment. It's over with some billion being mentioned unpaid debts, the obligations of craftsmen, and then probably followed by the dangerous process of various activities, and then followed by what we call a personal bankruptcy behind it. So the situation is not at all great, even though the potential and we all know it in craftsmanship is great, so I don't know how much it's said here to be employed right now or to live off the craftsmanship of over 100,000 people at the same time. More than 100,000 people live with the OPG and when we put it in line with what big economies are praised for saying they employ so many and so many workers. So the greatest potential actually lies in these two segments both in crafts and in the quality family agricultural economy, when we look at the number of employees. I'll say a few things about the law itself. I think they're here because for the second time I'm not going to comment on the same things as the first time, so now I'm going to focus on two key things that I think the measure of this law is. The first is an attempt to arrange a new form of craft as an institution, or to give it some kind of to commit its character to the future and the second thing that is here in this law is clear, and that is to edit itself in a different way the chamber system itself. It's two big things that we can now factor into certain proposed legal provisions, so I'm just going to say a few things, let's just say what's the matter with me for discussion. For example, I quote here in Article 30: "The craftsman can be helped by members of the family household in his presence." So this is the original proposal for the text that we got. I have this in front of me, and that is why it is not clear to me how the introduction is said that this kind of activity will be allowed, or help from the family household, to take place without presence, without the presence of craftsmen, of course not based on working relationships. Well, we're not going to ask the housekeeper to clean up the tailoring shop and make money and necessarily be the boss, I think these things can be done in a different and more casual way. So I'm not quite clear on this wording of Article 30. I think that if what the minister said were to be traced, then this should be changed in terms of some kind of amendment to the government because, as suggested, it stands out that a craftsman in the craftsmanship could be helped by members of the family household in his presence. So there's something that doesn't suit me very well. So the famous article of the 36th we're all talking about is the key thing. So how to protect craftsmen today from possible family collapse. It's the key to why people commit or engage in twisting or not. The fact that you can today establish a limited liability society with minimum money is so-called. Like a company ficus, do a job, pick yourself up, go and ask if you'll answer. Only craftsmen match their assets which, of course, is not good, which of course is not good. I am on the trail of the proposal that the Chamber of crafts has made in that amendment, where it is said that the obligations created in the craftsmanship of the craftsman corresponds to the entire property intended for the performance of the craftsmen and which is entered in the craft register or we call it whatever we want otherwise or we define it but therefore there is room to separate that part from both the accounting and formal legal in terms of some formal legal responsibility in the business to separate it from its own property. And I think this article needs to be done no matter what this is about another final reading. Besides, if he turns out to be an inefficient life, he'll be forced to change. The other two attitudes I think are good, they're good protection, but only at the moment of the execution. Clearly, then another model of the establishment and registration of these crafts should be defined here. If we want to protect them here and put them at least in the category with other companies, then we should define the underlying capital in the establishment of crafts, crafts shops, and then it's some kind of tank from which the demand can be charged has reached disputed, etc. I don't want to spread the subject any further. But I think I understand what we're talking about. In my opinion, the good articles 37 and 38 speak about the transfer of the trades in the case of retirement to the spouse as well as the transfer of the crafts in the event of death to the heirs, and here it is said in what sense, therefore the heirs are defined. That's good because if we want to have some continuity of traditional family crafts, then this is a very important thing. That's the quality of the West. So these traditional family crafts are quality, it's a trademark in one part of Swiss and Austrian craftsmanship. So that's what we used to have. Once Croatia was a country known for its traditional crafts, I have no illusion that this time will return but it is important to say something about it. In Article 41, there is something that is not clear to me, so in paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 you mention PPDS, crafts established in the PPDS area, areas of special state concern, and now I expect to see whether I have correctly interpreted so as to avoid manipulations in terms of tax relief requires that a PPDS man be employed, who lives on PPDS. If the intention is like that, the legislator is like that, then it's a totally acceptable thing to me, but I'm saying it's possible that I'm the wrong thing to do. Legal people see that all forms of association, I'm talking about the second sphere, the one about the chamber organization. So, legal persons are also the association of craftsmen and the regional crafts chamber and, of course, the Croatian Chamber of crafts, the assumption is that they as legal persons have employees and we said how busy they are, so at the level of the Croatian crafts chamber it is about nine hundred employees, nine hundred employees. On the one hand, it's good because these people have to work somewhere and on the other hand we've turned the craft chamber into a bureaucratized office apparatus. If that's true, in the craft chamber it works 300 plus 6 hundred in the administrations of these branches. That's how it was said here today. Article 77, which is the subject of all discussions whether membership is mandatory or voluntary if we give it a chamber system legal subjectivity. If they are to make decisions or acts of public character and it says here that chambers make acts of public character, then membership must be mandatory in the logic of things. And when we have now compared what they say are the advantages of that membership of a voluntary or compulsory one. On the side of the mandatory public and influential chamber, the benefits of craftsmanship and the economy are at the station of mandatory balance of interest, meaning representing the interests of all craftsmen equally, discharging the state budget because it is only financing which is a very important component of money and 99% of craftsmen are micro-entrepreneurs, they need a strong professional organisation otherwise they would, they would have led to the collapse of the chamber system if they were on a voluntary basis. If I'm not mistaken, strong economies in the EU have this mandatory chamber system, so we too tend to this position of the ministry that membership should be mandatory even though when it comes to chambers this debate comes at a very bad time, an unpopular time when to the chamber system, generally to the chambers, a media hack because of course of one of the chambers. I don't think this debate should be conducted in the context of that atmosphere. I don't think it should be under such an atmosphere that Croatia's craft chamber is under duress. I think she has a completely different character and I think she has a different attitude. In Article 81, what is most interesting for members of the crafts chamber, which is the percentage of the separation, so if the membership is mandatory then the means are also provided to say what is a great advantage today, it is today a privilege to have secure sources of income in the economy. Whether the best solution is 2% or 3% or 4. I now as a layman I have little data I can, I can't speculate, the promoter said 2%. We are going to bow to this because we think the Proposer has concrete arguments for this proposal. Besides, from what I've heard, 50 percent of the chamber is going to be incomeing about 50 million kunas a year in real terms at this point, it's not a small amount of money. So it's not small money. I'm not going to talk about opening up here and the theoretical possibility for additional sources of income. I'm not going to get into it, but realistically speaking at this economic point, not 50 million kunas of real income, permanent income is not a matter of negligibleness. And in the end, I think that craftsmanship should be relieved of these very 250 parafiscal loads. It's amazing that for forest licenses, here's what he says about small crafts, to do services in forestry, you have to pay 8,000 a year, these are amazing things. So what kind of work can bring that kind of coercion back? It is not good if this chamber contribution, as well as the chamber contributions, some others have been forced by force lately to do so so that because you have not paid the chamber contribution you lie on account, the business of craftsmen is blocked. That's not good. That's something to take care of. Of course, it's not popular for the chamber either, and it's caused a lot of revolt in people. So, notices are coming, if this is not paid, of course each of their reasons refers to that obligation, but the fact that it is charged thanks to the famous executive law where the biggest profit is actually earned by lawyers who are pushing in this way chamber contributions. All in all this legal text is acceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58022	Thank you. We have one replica, colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58023	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Horvat, look at the law says that legal persons can be craftsmen, but it is very interesting not to draw the same parallel in Article 36. Article 36 is full of contradictions. First, paragraph 1 states that the craftsman guarantees his entire assets, and then paragraph 2 says that it cannot be completed, and then paragraph 3 says that he cannot spend over the properties he lives in and then paragraph 4 is said but if the craftsman has signed with someone that he can do all that he can do then he can't oppose it. Why doesn't a craftsman have the property, why don't he guarantee it with that property? And it's clearly drawn from his private property, from his house, from his apartment, from something else, but if he wants to go to risk and if he knowingly signs a statement, then it's his responsibility. But we keep forgetting that the craftsmanship, craftsmanship, the craftsmen's cooperatives used to have a completely different meaning, a completely different function. We've let the craftsman into the markets today, and we expect them to behave that way. And where we like it, we'll do it administratively, we'll do it administratively, and where we don't like it, we'll go on that folk road, "get on the road, lose on the pot!". So this article is 36. I repeat, all craftsmen who run business books have the pre-recorded property in their books. If HAMAG provides a guarantee for stock companies, for a loan because individual stock companies have no assets and cannot give a guarantee, why not give HAMAG to tradesmen, or Mr craftsmen establish a limited liability company for ten kunas, in HAMAG by guarantee, in a bank by credit. That's the smartest thing for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58024	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58025	Thank you. The proposer will probably explain a little more in detail what it is, which was therefore the basic idea of protecting craftsmen with this model. I'm the one who's going through it. I see this as an attempt to protect their basic assets after all these unpleasant experiences. Here it is also said that it must not be the subject of an asset, so the building in which the executioner resides in the scope necessary to meet the basic needs and that is the matter for discussion. I mean what it means in terms of scale, who's going to define the extent necessary to meet the housing needs in each individual case. It means this thing needs to be done. I just wanted to suggest that the promoter was on a good track and he wanted to protect a craftsman who was not the only one in this system protected, so he was not formally protected. Is this the best solution? And that's what you'd be able to talk about?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58026	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58027	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The respected ministers once again with their associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected crafts and craftsmen, I also saw a few ladies upstairs. Well, first of all, I'm sorry that there hasn't been a chance in the past six months that outside the assembly, you and we who are in opposition together with the rulings are discussing this law because if something shouldn't be a matter of political debate and conflict, it's this law of twisting. So, we should all be there especially after five years of crisis on the line of defense and the last craft and craftsmen, which makes our entry into the EU even greater, will make even more pressure on craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. If a much richer country, much richer than Croatia, such as Germany and Austria are fighting for each craftsman, it means that, of course, by the order of globalisation, every small entrepreneur and craftsman is under pressure, so it is logical that all of this will be reflected here in Croatia. I've got to reach out here, it's not my goal to politicize, but the fact is that some members of the ruling coalition disagree with this bill, it's saying enough that it wasn't really thinking about the ultimate goal of this law. Now, this morning, we had a really sharp discussion on the Committee on Economy, and I mean a good debate, but what we missed in the end, which is that, of course, the Law on crafts can't solve the problem of employment or unemployment, or, in fact, the essential maintenance and progress of crafts and entrepreneurship, but above all, it can be the right policy, the economic policy of the government. For two years from the HDZ Club, we warn that the current economic policy is completely wrong and that it will lead to exactly what it leads to, which is that we have crossed 350,000 unemployed, that we have an economic downturn. And here's eight quarters that will be, unfortunately, in a row. So instead of structural reforms, we have a rise in tax burden resulting in a fall in the purchasing power of Croatian citizens and then of course that whatever business you do, and I'm talking about trades, you just have less and less and less work to do and that you have less and less employees. And so, unfortunately, we're in a chain circuit. What I have to say at the beginning of the speech on behalf of the HDZ club on the law, and that is the fundamental observation of the minister is that this bill will collapse the chamber system that we have been saying over 160 years. So I'm going to go and I'm going to end up with the same one, and that's if you think it's possible to adapt any system within a month if you take half his fixed income, so that's impossible. So, I'll come back later in detail in the debate but the simple way, deadlines and everything, so it says you haven't got the strength or time in dialogue with craftsmen to find a joint proposal. The HDZ has been saying that for the past two years. Well, of course we will support anything that reduces the cost of business and craftsmen and entrepreneurs there is no dilemma about it. But you shouldn't go from extreme to extreme. So, yes, I need to make some sort of reduction plan, but that's why I'm a little before and in yours, and I mentioned it to you in the replica, which is that I understand in some way the frustration of the entire ministry, given that everything else that would actually not only happen to craftsmen but also to entrepreneurs should make life easier and business in this situation not happening. Therefore, instead of allowing small entrepreneurs to pay VAT per charge and craftsmen are expected to pay VAT immediately instead of charge. I think you'll agree. I know you spoke publicly on the subject that it is absolutely unacceptable for small entrepreneurs, craftsmen to pay VAT immediately instead of charge. Even there are European directives, i.e. suggestions that up to 500,000 euros in annual income is made possible, so especially in terms of now that craftsmen affected by the crisis are also expected to finance the excessive and unrestructured state. So we would expect your ministry not only to make it stop, to be with 1.1.2015. The VAT pays immediately, rather than at charge, to apply the same to all small entrepreneurs most affected by this crisis. Secondly, we expect, of course, to remove parafiscal burdens especially for small entrepreneurs and craftsmen. There were a lot of them in the term of the HDZ government. I think we've listed 256 of them. I think they're parafiscal. I don't know, though, how the current government got a number of 500. That's not clear to anyone. No matter how many hundreds there are, it's too much. So there's really a whole series and it's very, very large loads of parafiscals that should have been abolished especially for craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. Finally, at least we expected to restart the story of HITROREZ or simply remove bureaucratic obstacles equally for entrepreneurs and craftsmen. All this, of course, raises the question of why it could not have happened in the past six months, so if it took another six months to come up with a joint proposal between Croatian craftsmen and the resolution ministry. We think this is how you break an institution and now I don't just mean financially. It's just not a good team anymore than many logically and expected. So, many craftsmen today simply after five, six years of crisis from despair will say, so look, I really won't pay a hundred kunas or eighty kunas a month anymore than I will pay 40, 50 kuna. So it sounds good. However, we all know together that this is not a solution to the progress of Croatian craftsmanship and Croatian entrepreneurs. That way you simply kill an institution. A few sentences about education. I'll try not to say it again. It was quite said here and by my colleagues, in fact the most if I understood well from both you and from the bill actually an explanation that the Chamber of crafts could withstand the reduction of this fixed part and it was overnight so that in fact the complete system of education in crafts was moved to the resolution ministry. I find it hard to believe that this would be the first easy thing to do and the second one not to generate a new cost. And I let myself end up saying that it's hard to imagine, and since '89. I was an entrepreneur in Croatia by 2010. I can hardly imagine that suddenly the public system would become a more efficient cost than it is within the Croatian Chamber of crafts. And that's why I just mentioned, maybe we didn't understand this affair. So, it's not the time when this biggest scandal breaks out when we're talking about the history of chamber organization that we're actually having this kind of debate, but it doesn't matter. We have this different attitude, that's clear. So these are too big and too serious to change laws in some way without a common attitude with the craftsmen themselves. Now a few more sentences, so hopefully you'll appreciate a whole series of amendments submitted. We hope that you will accept that what has been done for decades is not bad. So any system can be improved, but we need to build the systems and institutions of Croatia, not destroy them. Therefore, if the Croatian Chamber of crafts is there to provide as you said and a whole series of services yes, but they do it today as far as I know for free. So, as part of what craftsmen today pay for a whole series of services is somehow covered by this cost per month, as 80 kuna today is on average for Croatian craftsmen. But in that total cost, it happens, and in fact, this one system of education is a craftsman, so now I'm not going into detail. But we do, so you want to change the entire philosophy of passing the auxiliary exams. So why more, so why cancel the testimony issue. I can even read it to you, I hate to read it, but I'm going to read one of the arguments that I think we all need to think about. So one of the reasons for one of the amendments to the correct one says this: "The final proposal of the law of the legal person who performs the business of the tied craftsman, the mechanic, the cosmetologist, the electrician, the hairdresser and others must not, unlike the craftsman, have a professionally trained person." So they don't have to have a trained person. "This craftsmanship and vocational education are directly threatened, and their expertise is impaired. In the absence of the obligation to hire a highly qualified person, the quality of services provided and consumer protection are at stake, thus jeopardising the life and health of citizens." I think this is a serious enough remark for all of us to bring order, of course, to your resolute ministry. Here, I could now for a long time list you a whole series of details and amendments but I end you up because in fact in some way it all comes down to whether you will go by force within a month to halve the income of the Croatian crafts chamber. So I repeat once again in the end that business needs to be cheaped out in Croatia and for entrepreneurs of craftsmen, but this should be done with reason both with measure and in agreements with those you want to help. It's hard to help someone so you don't ask them how to help you, he tells you, and you say no. I decided to help you how I think you should be helped. Here, thank you. If you are not ready to accept a whole series of these amendments, HDZ will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58028	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58029	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a dear fellow thank you for welcoming our esteemed craftsmen. Indeed, in 2010, the HOC declared women in craftsmanship. They're 32%, they're self-absorbed, but they're very valuable and they work hard. And my colleague, I agree with you, I agree that this chamber contribution story is really not going to solve any problems in craftsmanship. And you're right, if someone was supposed to talk to, then it was supposed to talk to a HOK who probably knows in cooperation with craftsmen what they'd want in their law. And you can't do the law of someone like the ex-Catedra who's never been raised in his life at 6 a.m., 16 a.m. worked, didn't ask for holidays, for Sundays, for saints and Fridays other than religious holidays that care, whose children were equally working in that craft, who knew everything they needed, whose wives were sacrificed to raise children and suddenly someone was doing the law without asking all those people at all. You're right, it's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58030	Replication response, Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58031	Yeah, well, thank you, comrade twilight. I will just say that over the past two years HDZ has supported in this assembly absolutely every government proposal that we have been convinced will preserve jobs or will contribute to Croatia's economic recovery and we have criticised unfortunately much more often because here now I am not exaggerating but 9 out of 10 unfortunately or perhaps more of the laws concerning the economy have completely led the economy in the wrong direction. When we criticized it, we didn't do it infuriately. So now I repeat here to you, so we will continue to support every proposal leading to a reduction in the cost of business of craftsmen and entrepreneurs, but not in this way and without agreeing with those who are allegedly trying to help. Here, I think that's crystal clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58032	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58033	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Is it not logical for you, fellow Milosevic, if a body has acts and if those acts need to be harmonised that it is responsible for comparing these acts? Should someone be sending to a supervisory office something that's self-conceived? The logical thing is for the Statute of the Croatian Chamber of crafts to be in accordance with the law. If it is passed illegally, it is known which body in Croatia reacts to such things, given the HOK status, that the Ministry of Administration must do so by default. And there is no need for the law to determine, says the harmonisation of the Statute of the Croatian Chamber of crafts with this law is determined by the ministry responsible for crafts. You're not in charge of interpreting legal acts, it's none of your business. It's not the Department's job. And how much contradiction this law has, see only Article 81 paragraph 2. brings a financial budget to the fourth indent. What is the term of the financial budget, what does that mean? The budget is clear by itself and the Chamber Assembly can only come up with a financial plan. The financial budget does not exist, this is not worth the financial budget in the Croatian financial dictionary. The budget is known by itself what it is to account for income and expenditure. If it brings in the budget, it brings in the budget, and if it brings in the financial plan, it brings in the financial plan. But he can't make a financial budget. And that's just confirmation when you want to standardize, impose, you have to work as I tell you to go into extremes and make up a financial budget. Now, I don't know how we're going to look for what he needs to deliver a financial, non-financial, material, immaterial budget in this House of Commons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58034	Replication response, Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58035	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, yes, and more of us have found that there are a lot of contradictions and one of those contradictions that are not currently of course written in this law is that you're saying that someone on the outside needs to determine that craftsmen, or within their chambers, are going to function and decide. It is not good to in some way show mistrust as if they do not understand or as if they do not care that all those who are still, because it is not a voluntary chamber but is mandatory, so everyone is invited and as far as I know can participate in the work of their crafts chamber. So to some extent, let them clear their relationships under number one and number two and I'll tell you from basic experience. Because some people don't understand that they have rights in their chambers. Let's not judge an institution, so you have a whole series of entrepreneurs. Now I'm speaking from personal experience that didn't even bother to look at what their rights are in these institutions, let's say in these chambers, and that's why they didn't use their rights or use some kind of service, and they're willing to criticize. So let's put it on the table, which is it, we're just going to educate people who are their rights, I mean in this case on membership which are those services that provide chambers, why they do it, and how we can in some way, all together still go ahead and not crash what we've built so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58036	Thank you. Minister Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58037	Thank you very much, here is when after the first two clubs I have the opportunity to say something, in the end I am sorry that my colleague Shucker and member of the Legislative Office and the Legislative Committee are not technically making very good remarks, so it would be very useful. I think it's very clear that it means you've now nomotechnically had an objection so I commended you, that means. On that side, it is clear what was meant to be said with that provision. There's no need, you know what the financial plan and the budget of the organization is, and I don't think there's any doubt about it, but here at first I'm just saying, I'm sorry that it's pushed into the first plan, especially here I see in front of the HDZ club a debate about the chamber organisation itself and the chamber itself. I think there are much more important things in the law itself that are directly related to craftsmen and that are much more important to them than whether the contribution will be two or three or four or five or seven percent, of course many of them, or a large majority of them would like to have voluntary membership in the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen, but a lot of things in the law itself go in favour of the craftsmen themselves, and I'm sorry that you haven't paid any attention to it, but you've caught yourself again here in the corner of the eye that you have, as well as the last time the suggestions of the Croatian Chamber of crafts and you've read the reasoning of their amendments, which I say again, are not entirely correct because there are laws in Croatia that regulate certain activities. That's what I said on the board this morning, too. There is no fear of health and any threat of consumers on the market with these provisions that we have applied here to companies. Because there is a law if we talk about food preparation, if we talk about trade there is a law on trade, if we talk about gas, there is a law on gas activity, so there are things that are defined, which in themselves determine the education of those who should be in commercial societies. So there's no fear, and I'm sorry that you're reading these arguments that confuse people who are looking at this because it wouldn't have occurred to this government, especially to people who were giving their opinions, and they're in other ministries, ministries dealing with both the economy and the ministries dealing with the judiciary, etc., who are making sure that some of the laws and the positive regulations defining consumer protection don't come under question with this law. So that's all we are, I'd say very detailedly check and there won't be any problems for consumers, be sure. But while I'm a minister in this ministry, I'm going to fight to make it as simple as possible, we don't have too many norms, so if you want this 10 gross salaries for the domestic level of secondary activity also goes in that direction and if you're fighting for it, and just before you said you're fighting and that you're going to give support to work easily in Croatia, then that's exactly the way to support this bill. If we're talking about reducing parafiscal burdens here, I'm going to give you some exclusive information today, over 7 hundred million kunas we've agreed on today on coordination will go to discharges of small and medium-sized enterprises and larger companies, meaning all craftsmen and companies in Croatia, further discharge through the Ministry of Agriculture and their laws covering water, forests, etc., through here and this reduction. Seven hundred and twenty million kunas of parafiscal burdens. In the first year of the term of office, there was also a reduction almost to billions of kuna, so I would say about those figures when during HDZ there were tens of billions of kunas of parafiscal duties, we've already reduced almost 20% in absolute amount, and that's an absolute amount that applies to the state, we're not talking about those revenues that went to local self-government units, so we've done a lot, and if you're going to be honest you'll admit, you'll say two billion kuna in almost two years isn't a little of the ten billion that HDZ had while it was in power and while you were in government. So here's what I can be proud of. Here in front of everyone. I'm sorry that Croatian citizens don't hear it more because the debate is already too late, but two billion kunas have been taken off, to ignore, this is a little shorter than usual. I'll get back to you then.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58038	Thank you. You have five minutes when you report in during the debate. Miss twilight replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58039	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Minister, I'm interested in the following. As you will under this new law, then, domestic activities are allowed that have in principle no limit, the list of activities is abolished then they do not have to be even fiscalized, they do not have to issue accounts. We keep fighting the gray economy. How do you plan to prevent in reality the gray economy? How do you think a craftsman who works for, say, three workers and one worker remembers, okay, I'm not gonna be here anymore than I'm gonna be doing at home, so I'm gonna take the customers to my master, so I'm gonna do it at home because nobody's controlling me anyway. Well, we've been fighting all the time in the last two, four, five, and here's a fellow Shucker right against that gray economy, and now you've been able to tell her in one way and open the door wide.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58040	The reply to the replica of Minister Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58041	Thank you very much. Mrs. twilight, I am asking you as an advocate to prepare yourself in such replicas, so it is not true that there are no restrictions and that there is no respect for the issue of bills or that this is done in the gray zone. This is all regulated and accounts will be issued and income will be reported and there is a limit to how much you can do on an annual basis and there is a limit that must be in line with the laws that rule in the Republic of Croatia, so all this is very standardized. I'm here maybe it's lucky it's a little later so there's less viewers but for your sake, please next time you give a replica, get ready. It's not true what you said. So this is all you said isn't true. This is the way it stands. Mrs. twilight is not true what you said. ... I didn't say I did. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Bills must be issued, there is a limit, and it would be good to read the laws a little more carefully before such a replica is given because you can lead the citizens who are watching this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58042	A fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58043	Madam Vice President, I answer for the word on behalf of the club. And you and I have been in this House for a long time, and no minister has ever allowed himself this kind of communication with MPs, ever. Well, you, Mr. Minister, can't touch the MPs to discuss it. You can't, you just can't, and you have no right to. You can make your arguments and with these arguments you can disprove the arguments, but you can't touch the MPs. You're a guest here in this house, you're in our house, and you can't behave any way you like. It's another pair of shoes that you're allowed to wear. But really embarrassing how you address MPs, embarrassingly. You make your argument, she'll take it or it won't be her thing, but don't insult it, you have no right. It offends me when he's teaching someone that he hasn't prepared himself to tell the truths you insult and you have no right to do so. I ask you nicely, Madam Vice President, that we have a polite debate in this House so that everyone can make their arguments, and the viewers and the worse craftsmen at the gallery may judge who is right. And don't be a cadiya and everything. Kadiya's suing you, cadiya's judging you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58044	Thank you very much. You're the one who said yours. I didn't think I should react, but really Ministers, when you respond to the replica, answer to the replica not in the way the replica is expressed. Col. Domagoj Milosevic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58045	Madam Vice President. Dear Ministers, first of all support if you have disbursed 700 million kunas from the Croatian economy. However, if you, on the one hand, make a decision to relieve the Croatian economy through non-taxable taxes and raise taxes, introduce new taxes or new charges, then in total mass, and this is what we are talking about here for two years you have not contributed to the recovery economy. The result is obviously poor, so two years of economic downturn instead of economic growth. The number of unemployed is 60 grand higher in a year. So it's obvious there's something wrong with math. It's great if you or your ministry have fought to have some of these non-taxable duties either cut or abolished. That's what the HDZ government did to make it quite clear here for those who might be looking at us. The former HDZ government did the same. A whole series of water contributions was a lot of things. However, it is crucial that the overall burden must fall, if we want to create new jobs, get investors and preserve what we have from the economy. Let me repeat it or ask you again, do you really think it's possible to reform or reorganize the system in a month by halve someone's income?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58046	The reply to the replica of Minister Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58047	Thank you very much. A little in fear of misreading the answer, but you're not as sensitive as Mr. Shucker, so I'll be a little more free. What you just said earlier is that we've reduced the economy I said nearly two billion kunas or we're going to cut by these 700 million almost two billion kunas of non-taxable taxes. The economy hasn't raised a single tax. What tax went up in the economy? Will the VAT drop from 25 to 10% now go to 13% of the rate but again from 25 to 13%? Is the zero rate reinvested to get taxes to the economy? I don't know a single tax in the economy that went up. So exactly the opposite, all the time we've been dropping tax taxes in the economy, and in the first two years we've done it, so look at the budget just how much less profit tax is, not because of the dramatic decline in the profits of some companies but what people invest. So over billions of kunas, people took advantage of the possibilities of reinvestment. Is that some kind of help? Yeah, we're working on it, and we'll be working on it by the end of the term. As far as reform is concerned, I am absolutely sure that it is possible to implement the reform and in a shorter time, especially if you consider it, and I also said today that there are unpaid revenues that the chamber system has over 300 million kunas. If some can understand those who are hard to charge, there must be over 100 million kunas that can be charged. So there's a reserve where you can still use the money to make reforms. And it doesn't fall by 50% of the total income...... The chamber will drop by about 35% when all revenue is taken. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58048	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58049	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. And it's illusory to say anything, all of what the minister said is seen in the financial budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58050	The answer to the replica, now you can answer, was not a replica before. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58051	That was pretty funny, and here's just a little smile.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58052	Okay, then we'll laugh. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58053	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with the Deputy and Assistant, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen Representatives of the Chamber of crafts, colleagues and colleagues. Tonight has not been said yet, but I would like to say that the Law on Trade is a fundamental law that regulates status and other issues important for the work of economic operators that exist in the market in the form of crafts. I would also like to remind once again that the previous Law on Trade was passed in 1993 and that in the meantime, it had six amendments to the Constitutional Court's decision, which abolished the 20th paragraph, excuse me, Article 20, paragraph 1 of the existing Law on crafts. So, with all the rapid and dynamic changes that condition the modern market for goods and services, we can say that the past law was outdated, so that I would express one other rudimentary term and that it certainly needed a thorough change. As this legal regulation is important and the fact that after the first reading, I think it was already mentioned in this House, there were a lot of stakeholders who came forward for a public debate. That is how the ministry received over 200 proposals and opinions in a month of consultation before the first reading. And he kept paying attention to this bill after the first reading, or in the second reading, and certainly the amendments that we all received as MPs in this House. We think it is very important to highlight some of the more important issues related to the crafts that are governed by this law. First of all, the question of the transfer of craftsmen's lives is being arranged, and we believe that this is extremely important. Thus far, the legal solution did not foresee the possibility of passing crafts for the life of a craftsman to a member or members of his family. This was a special problem when the craftsman retired. The craftsmen sought different ways, often long - term and complicated to transfer the craft to their successor, or heir. This bill allows craftsmen to transfer their craftsmen to their mate or blood relative in a straight line for life. At this point, there is a list of activities to define those activities that can be carried out in the domestic activity or in the secondary profession. However, practice has shown that such a solution is lifeless. This has also resulted in insufficient use of these forms of activity. This bill allows all authorised economic activities to be carried out in terms of domestic activity and secondary occupations, subject to the same conditions as crafts. The intensity of the law is primarily directed towards pensioners who want to be working and ensure their additional income. In this case, they do not pay contributions and the other contributions continue to receive a pension or do not have to freeze a pension with a provision that is possible up to a maximum amount of 78 thousand 630 kuna. When performing domestic work and secondary occupation, it is mandatory only to pay taxes. We are convinced that this will affect the reduction of unfair competition, or so on. Grey economies in a way that those who wish to have additional activity will not have to resort to illegal work. The new law leaves the possibility of enrolling in the records of legal persons performing crafts, legal persons carrying out activities on, let's call it that again under quotes "a craftsman's way" but only if they want to implement a training programme. According to a record owned by the ministry, there are now around 1,400 legal entities mentioned. Since craftsmanship is seen as a family business, it is especially commendable to legalize the institution to assist members of the craftsman without being obliged to establish a working relationship with the craftsman. In so far as aid is concerned, without the presence of the owner of the craftsmen, as the minister and members of the household must meet all the specific conditions required, if the craft is prescribed by education, if it is related to the craftsman to the health conditions prescribed by the special laws. The provisions of the applicable rules in the field of education and education have also been brought into line. The professional curricula for the acquisition of professional qualifications for tied crafts brings the minister responsible for education with the previous consent of the Minister in charge of crafts. After successfully completed secondary education, the student shall pass an assistant exam conducted by the professional education and education agency of adults and secondary schools. The competent authority for carrying out the external evaluation procedure of the auxiliary examination shall belong to the mentioned agency, thus achieving added quality assurance. The government of the Republic of Croatia has launched an amendment to a series of laws aimed at disbanding the economy, primarily by reducing parafiscal burdens. One of the parafiscal burdens is the chamber contribution of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, which must be paid by all registered crafts in the Republic of Croatia. This law introduces a newspaper in these relations by proposing the introduction of a single rate of mandatory chamber contribution to the Croatian Chamber of crafts and the possibility of paying an additional voluntary chamber contribution. The provisions defining the uniform rate of chamber contribution shall enter into force on 1 January 2014 and all for the purpose of the immediate effect of parafiscal discharge of craftsmen. We believe that this measure will significantly relieve the craftsman as an obligor of payment of the mandatory chamber contribution which, according to the bill, cannot be more than 2% of the basic personal income deduction in accordance with the Income Tax Act, i.e. Forty-four kunas. The Chamber's establishment is therefore further established by the Law on crafts and statutes of the Chamber of crafts. The chamber independently decides on the height of the voluntary chamber contribution, its structure, the choice of the chamber body, etc. Finally, this legislative proposal brings a whole range of quality regulation issues related to the operation of crafts in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the unification of parafiscal burdens related to craftsmanship as a measure of discharge of craftsmen. Due to all this, the SDP club in the Croatian Parliament will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58054	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58055	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Hajduković, yes, you spoke about the importance of education and, of course, that education and education of craftsmen and other factors in society are very important. So the craftsmen to run their craft must take different exams, among other things... it's a master's exam. I would like to know how you explain how you can support this law without making any comments when it comes to mastery or professional or any other examinations, the exclusive legal persons wishing to carry out any economic activity set out in the list referred to in Article 6 and paragraph 1. Mr. Hajdukovic, these are those companies that open up for 10 kuna and then someone thinks they can be, or that they're going to be smuggling or something, it doesn't matter what the fabric or what the machine is, but he's going to open up the firm fine, he doesn't have to..., someone's going to hire inside and who knows what he's going to do. There will be competition for craftsmen because, of course, it will be unfair competition, that at least loyal but unfair. Or what tools or crafts would say, but he certainly had money from somewhere that would work that way. So how can you support it, so at least warn it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58056	Replication response, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58057	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Comrade Sumrak, yes, I deliberately didn't want to talk about some of my views of public authority that... speak for the club, I will speak for myself, and I believe that the minister will listen very carefully, perhaps some parts and then install the amendments into the law. As far as you're concerned, it's a great topic, and I'd also like to discuss it and I'll discuss it, but it's a problem that trades and companies have recently, i.e. a little entrepreneurship and crafts, that the differences are almost gone. And then we need to ask ourselves how to get there, what is the future of the trade in that setting of the market and some answers here I believe I will be able to offer in my debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58058	On behalf of HNS representative club colleague Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58059	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, respected craftsmen and craftsmen. Here I am today, on the Committee on Economy, expressing regret that this law is actually in the process of 6 months this year, that it goes into two readings and that today we discussed on the board as if it were the first draft of the law. From all the debates today it is clear that there is a serious lack of communication between the ministry and the Croatian Chamber of crafts, because however we turn it around and watch the Chamber of craftsmen at this point, and I, of course, welcome the Minister's initiative to communicate directly with the craftsmen, but it is clear that only some flat-rate reviews and attitudes can actually be reached in such communication. I have to say, it's a similar thing with the same polls that were led here, and they're actually going through the whole public debate. Some polls show that craftsmen are not satisfied with the Chamber of craftsmen, some polls show that craftsmen are not satisfied with the ministry and now, as my colleague said today, that now someone is doing a survey that people are satisfied with us in the Parliament believe me that they would also be quite dissatisfied. But this does not mean that institutions need to be cut off, or not provided enough air to survive what unfortunately turns out to be the intensity of this law. We, of course, need to reorganize them, we need to reform them in order to function as well as best and as high-quality as possible and in order, of course, to benefit our citizens, in this case specifically our craftsmen. The situation in craftsmanship today is extremely bad, we talked about it several months ago in the first reading. There's been a lot of talk today about a lot of numbers. I can only say here is a particular one for Varazdin that in the city of Varazdin, a quarter of the craftsmen have been closed since 2008, so more than 25%. And somehow everyone was, at first I have to say satisfied, optimistic when the craftsmanship within this government got its own ministry, so when it finally started to make a new whole law and then suddenly one story that was supposed to be good and positive turned into a pretty ugly fight in the media and what was actually the worst was a complete suspension of communication between the representatives of craftsmen and the ministry. And today, when fellow Horvat here on behalf of the SDSS Club spoke of it, he welcomed on the one hand the minister and his associates and on the other, as representatives of craftsmen. Those certainly aren't good messages. The problem became clear when the law was first read, in which many remarks were made in the debates, but many very high-quality proposals were also made, and I am sorry that no more of these quality proposals were introduced in this final law proposal. In fact, both comments and suggestions referred to a truly large number for craftsmen of vital importance. Today, there have been a lot of words about this, and I will only count those that I think are really important and that should really be considered before this law is passed. So one of them is certainly putting craftsmen in a more unfavourable position than companies. It should be considered whether it is good for a craftsman to perform a certain activity to require that he has completed three years of vocational education, that he has two years of training, that he has to pass the master's exam, while on the other hand someone can open d.o.o. For ten kunas, none of this has to be mentioned. And that is, in some ways, unfair competition that goes to the damage of craftsmen, but what is extremely important is actually going to harm the quality of service. Further to what she would have specifically warned and what she specifically warned about was the issue of professional education and the passing of the assistant exam. This work has so far been carried out by a crafts chamber, and this is listed in the EU frameworks as an example of positive practice, and now we are changing this system and, in fact, bringing it to two institutions, to a professional education agency and to an adult education agency and to a national education evaluation centre. Which, if I understood that correctly, means that something that so far the chamber has financed with a million kunas and that worked well, will now be financed from the state budget and of course we'll only see how it works. And now as for the very functioning of the crafts chamber, that was a lot of debate, and I have to say that I and I understand and support the minister in his intentions and wishes that the chamber works better and better and of course with as little cost as possible, and that is an absolute initiative that needs to be supported. But here I think it is, of course, important institutions, and they must generally give their users and the economy full results. The chambers need to reform, they need to rationalise their business without further ado, but that goal will not be achieved in a way that breaks their legs before we give them a chance to run. My proposal is to support that memberships are reduced, that craftsmen are dispersed, but that craftsmen are given such a reduction that they can function, that they can adapt, that they can implement their reforms to the end and that what is really crucial and important is to continue to provide quality services to craftsmen, because the liberalisation of the market absolutely does not sharpen quality and not at the expense of craftsmen. As few as some think it is, as they contribute to the GDP product, I would actually say that they are both the pillar and the foundation of every healthy economy, and even the strongest economy in the world, and today it was here that one Germany has first and foremost a strong and stable craftsmanship. And that is why our task, and especially the task of the Ministry of crafts, should be to create conditions for better and more productive work, i.e. at this time actually creating conditions for the survival of craftsmanship. I'm going to point out once again that I'm sorry that all this time they haven't been able to crystallize my best solutions because this law is too important to be passed in this kind of rage. Here we are, and in Varazdin three weeks ago, we had a debate where there were over 150 craftsmen, and I have to say that they were not just representatives of the chamber and association, but they were quite the craftsmen who were very interested in what this law would ultimately look like. And the unanimous conclusion was that dialogue had to be established that the proposal was very concrete to form one working group so that the working group consisted of experts and parliamentary representatives and craftsmen and, of course, the ministries and resolution ministries and the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance would therefore make the best solutions, went once again through this law. So it was an emergency call for dialogue. I have also suggested today in some discussions that this law goes into third reading and it is not the idea that, of course, it takes another three months now, but I think in a very short time, this group can be formed and that it can be passed through that law. Here's the minister didn't accept it, but he's still about to change his mind. Here I believe, by the way, that the minister with his professional team had the best intentions and that the law was passed, I have now looked back at those things that I consider to be controversial, given that everything that is good, quality and positive and the law provides a lot of positive solutions, a lot of important, good changes, has been presented in front of the SDP Club. But I would suggest this if we passed this law to make one revision of the effects of this law in the next six months and see if the law in certain areas will not work and will not do well for craftsmen to move into its amendments and supplement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58060	Thank you, colleague. Domagoj Hajdukovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58061	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Martincevic, I like to open up that I know the situation as far as the craftsman is concerned, since I worked with them in my career on the market, I have worked very hard. I've talked a lot in preparation for the debate, first of all my personal individual debate that I'm about to present. I've talked a lot to both craftsmen and craftsmen, associations of craftsmen of county craft chambers, etc. But it would also help me trust the public if they told us, you mentioned that we cut down the legs of the chamber before it could run, to deny them the possibility of some reforms before they spend it all the way. But none of my chambermates told me that they were planning any reforms at all. Many have agreed that reforms are necessary but I have not heard of reform here, so I would just like you to explain it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58062	Replication response, Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58063	Yeah, I'm sorry you're not familiar with that. I've been intensive for the last six months and talked to both the craft chamber and the craftsmen, so past the association and the chambers. The Chamber of crafts carried out a whole series of reforms, a whole series of reforms, a whole series of start-up restructurings, and we should support them in this way to implement these reforms until the end before we can prevent them from actually being blocked through the lack of funds because we are now forcing them to change their business and operations completely for a month and a half from 1.1.2014. So we see in this government how reforms go. So, it doesn't go fast, it doesn't go overnight, it takes its time, so if we take our right to reform for a while, to see well how we're going to and where we think we need to give both craftsmen and craftsmen a transition period, so provide them with the opportunity to carry out the reforms further.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58064	On behalf of HDSSB representative Krešimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58065	Thank you, well-respected vice president, respected ministers, ministry presidents, colleagues and colleagues, respected craftsmen, I welcome all of you together. I wanted to say something on behalf of the HDSSB Club but also on my own behalf. Just before my colleague Hajdukovic said something I'm going to do on behalf of the SDP and I'm going to do something on my own behalf. So when I speak on behalf of the HDSSB, I always speak for myself and at the HDSSB club. My opinion and my views never differ from the opinion of what we agree within the party because it certainly is important messages, that attitudes are important, but there are also elements of both our craftsmanship and the Republic of Croatia. We have before us the final proposal of the Law on crafts, I would say before about the destruction of the Croatian Chamber of crafts. There are several articles that just refer to the crafts chamber and looking at the amendments prepared by the crafts chamber but also all the suggestions that you received in the ministry during and debates both from individual clubs, individual institutions, but also from craftsmen, I think it took a lot more to respect them because it is an institution that is 160 years old, has survived a lot of things and certainly has a rich experience. But what is the first question, and what is often mentioned today in the debates, what is paid? which is paid and the key is what is obtained. So, often in conversations with our craftsmen but also well-known work and crafts chambers are important educations, seminars are important, talking about certain problems is important, especially looking at the border problems that our craftsmen have but salty and clearer attitudes have. That's what the craft chamber does. This is what the problems persist when they appear in practice, surely to try to solve them, jointly, borderally with that part of the craftsmen they refer to and certainly represent a respectable institution. But by looking at the history of the chamber, we can say that this is a difficult crisis for and this law that you will probably pass, but right away, I say on behalf of the HDSSB Club that we will be against, surely it will reflect on business but I believe that you will think carefully in the coming months and make changes that will certainly characterize the changes in relation to the crafts chamber but also in relation to our craftsmen. Looking at a number of agencies set up in the Republic of Croatia, new agencies under the European Directives must be worrying us. From day to day by day by mushrooms after the rain, millions go to the agencies and the institutions we have I would say for centuries try to shut down, try to belittle and try to distract their contribution. That's what's not good. What we're talking about in craftsmanship is clear. Without the big ones, there's no small ones, and without the little ones, there's no big ones. But it is evident that just the craftsmen at the end of the chain and the best feel the burden of the crisis are both in construction and in other sectors because when you're a gas-installer and some builder's got a job then you're the last in line and the last in the chain and the good part of them felt that bill of pre-fashion that he hit pretty much there as if they fell on the lowest branches. While looking at the amendments that the craftsmen have said and who have written it safely and looking at certain articles, looking at the final proposal for a law that applies exactly to certain activities, and just now Mr Milosevic talked about it. So I'm asking you when it comes to a gas-installer who started a ten kuna company, who doesn't need almost any reference, so I'd be afraid to give it home to fix my gas-installation and a craftsman who's been educated for years just to provide such services and protect our consumers and come up with someone with ten kunas and start a company and go do a job. This is certainly not what I consider a professionally trained person but it is exactly what our craftsmen are competing for and that is why we have recorded in the past year since 2008 with 101 thousand craftsmen that we have fallen to 82 thousand. I wonder where the end is, where is the end of the decline of the number of craftsmen and the breaking of craftsmanship. Just in craftsmanship there was a tradition that had been developing for decades, which had developed, I would say for centuries and carried from knee to knee. By looking at certain articles such as Article 30(1), it is necessary to wipe in his presence, meaning that he can clean up his dad's shop, move and talk to someone and he will not fix the clock if he is not educated or will not fix his shoes even though when we talk about traditional crafts we do not even have them, for example, looking at the unit of local administration from which I come it is the city of Osijek, looking at the number of crafts that went out, the other day my shoe was ripped off, I could hardly wear shoes in the area of the city of Osijek and he had tradition of both the leather industry and the shoe industry and today we don't have one crafter where we can fix shoes. These are questions where our craftsmanship occurs and why and the few craftsmen we have run away in d.o.o. Well, it's the legal framework. However, looking at the absurdity of this situation in Article 30, the HDSSB’s view is that there is no need for attendance and that it can be helped within the family on simple matters. This Regulation shall enter There are several items, for the obligations arising from the performance of the crafts, the craftsman shall correspond to all the assets intended to carry out the crafts that are entered into what is important in the craft register. Because so far we have seen the mass of craftsmen who have fallen, whose houses have gone to the drum and then put themselves in a more unfavourable position compared to the d.o.o. which corresponds only to the limited property that has been entered. But that is why craftsmen should be given a chance to match only what they have entered into their crafts, and what is related to their books and their registers, the value of the crafts that are intended to perform crafts is entered in the craft register and cannot be less than 20 thousand kuna. That would be some kind of suggestion like the old days. you've established. I think it's one of the chances for people to go into craftsmanship and sometimes when they get into a difficult situation and we know that there are cyclical problems and in crafts especially that are related to the construction, so that kid will get into trouble first and certainly need to give him a chance and a chance to get out of this problem. For example, by looking at Article 50(1), it is important to do domestic work under this law to understand the production of certain products from the activities of free crafts carried out by natural persons at home by personal work if they comply with the regulations governed by certain activities. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. But looking at the article related to Article 51 on paragraph 3 of this legal solution, the institution’s domestic work on secondary occupation is nothing more than a trade with limited income that does not encourage new employment, which creates a real danger of closing the crafts. Since business will be more favourable for the net VAT amount, and 25%, it is also important to say that it is proposed to the Institute that more adequate inspection supervision be done in black as well as not to report much of the revenue. This is what we had the opportunity to see and therefore give the opportunity and opportunity to the craftsmen through this proposal. In addition, Article 62 of secondary vocational education relating to crafts completed with the production and defence of completed work. We often talk about the crafts chamber but the crafts chamber should be given jobs and not take jobs that have worked so far, from their exams to all other things. So, looking at EU entry, we need to give our craftsmen a chance to also help our craftsmen prepare and implement individual projects. But also when we talk about article 81, I would say application from 1.1.2014 for this part relating to the chamber contribution, that means killing chambers from 1.1. nothing can be done overnight, and I would also say reduction of certain duties we had the opportunity to see and they are called parafiscal impositions. But first, when something should be reduced, it always moves away from the state, from the forest, from the water, from all those parafiscal loads. Thus, looking at the chamber's contribution cannot be reduced overnight but it depends on the regions, depending on the units of local administration, it should be allowed to be limited in units of local administration and not by one law, because the difference in Slavonia and Baranja and crafts and activities that are in Slavonia and Baranja to those in Istria or Dalmatia. There are differences in development, there is a difference in the branch activities of individual crafts and at the level of craft chambers. It is also necessary to give a transitional period for the crafts chamber to adapt to these needs, although they are already being restructured on the ground, to do rationalizations, to also have certain other incomes, from accounting to all other things they do for craftsmen, and it is certainly a good service to the craftsmen themselves. But I'm more concerned at this point when I saw the budget being carried out in 36, so I saw that almost the ministry didn't spend anything on the budget. These are the questions that we need to ask the minister today why, in the first part of the year of 30.6., no support has been given to our craftsmen, perhaps the reason why the minister has never worked in crafts. Well, he doesn't feel that kind of confirmation. But craftsmen need to keep up the whole year and call the competition and give them the opportunity to get support but also support to use it throughout the year. Looking at the implementation of the budget, it seems to me that 15% was just the execution of the first six months, but when you look at those other finance ministers, then we see that some 65% spent the budget, but the Minister of crafts, but also the Ministry of Economy as if they were saving funds in their ministry or simply doing nothing. What is important, and just European funds are important, and we haven't prepared our craftsmen enough, but we also often have information that people who have been educated in our premises and have gained knowledge that they are highly respectable in foreign markets, so you would be famous for Germany, so many people from Croatia have gone to Germany and are doing their job, are appreciated there and certainly we can say that the knowledge they have won here is well used outside and we are interested in them staying. But when we talk about reforms and surely that any caterer or our craftsman would sooner welcome the suspension of the ZAMP fee of tens of millions of kunas and some other parafiscal charges than the abolition of these precisely, I would say a few dozen kunas relating to the crafts chamber. I'm not saying the craft chamber has to make moves, it has to adapt to the market as everyone adapts, but there is a tradition and I'm sure based on our tradition, on the productivity of our people that we have a very good future. Therefore, the HDSSB is against such a legal solution because we believe that, by looking at the generations they created, we want to destroy them in a short time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58066	Thank you very much. Domagoj Hajdukovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58067	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Bubalo, here I am pleased to see your opinion as well as your party's opinion or vice versa. What I was about to say was that I wanted to make my personal contribution to this debate, or to convey in the rest and something I had committed to my colleagues to craftsmen and craftsmen, and I cannot do it on behalf of the party but also on behalf of myself as a representative. So you're the former mayor of Osijek, I can help you in Osijek, find training, there are more, you won't believe. If you're talking about the initial role of 20 thousand kuna for the crafts, then I'm asking you what's the difference between the crafts and the company because I don't see it anymore. The only difference is then it's actually staying is the collection of VAT per billed invoice and not issued but it's because if we're talking about the twist that it's mostly service activities, we're talking about caterers, hairdressers and the like. These small amounts are mostly charged immediately in cash, and they are not the problem with paying taxes. The builders you mentioned failed because of the irresponsibility of the greats, not because of the lack of them as such. They were often under contractors of large companies that didn't pay them, and that led to a chain result, and in the end when you talk about the rationalization that the chamber is carrying out, I have to tell you that rationalization and restructuring is not the same. So rationalisation certainly, all institutions are going into rationalization. However, restructuring is something else entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58068	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58069	Thank you very much, colleague Hajdukovic. In my discussion, I spoke on my own behalf and on behalf of the HDSSB. I appreciate you having an individual discussion. I'll be glad to hear that debate, so I'll be able to say more after you. I hope it doesn't differ from the one you had on behalf of the club. But when we talk about the building. This assembly passed laws, for example, I told the prime minister in the current hour the other day. Payment law relating to payment within 60 days. What kind of builder fulfills his obligation within 60 days of a craftsman? How many construction companies in Croatia were punished, which did not pay craftsmen in 60 days. Or any craftsman, I'm not just talking about the building, these are the problems we need to talk about here in the assembly and what's been done to get punished. And I was also interested in the current watch that the prime minister replied to me by the Ministry or the Croatian public system in the predominantly owned Republic of Croatia, the public enterprise also does not fulfil its obligations within 60 days. If everyone was doing their job, doing their duties, they wouldn't have the kind of problems we have in crafts today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58070	Miss twilight replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58071	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my dear colleague, I agree with you, especially when you were talking about traditional crafts. They are really the most endangered, I really must say so since Zagreb, Grič and Gradec, and probably always have been and have existed in all difficult times and existed and are indeed the foundation of a society. These are productive, mahomous production traditional crafts. They're the hardest, I don't see that there are any words here in any way, which will help them, in which way they'll think that they're being subsidized or encouraged when they're being saved, you said I don't know how many millions and because they didn't think. And besides, here's what I'm going to say about service activities and this part of the story in Article 51(1). You've noticed, for example. When we get into one pizza place, it means a man who has a pizza, let's get all taken, pay his taxes and contributions and everything else, and now someone will come home to his kitchen, into his basement, make a neat pizza, and he'll deliver them finely, tax or nothing. And as for Zagreb's traditional crafts, where they used to be scavengers, there are now bookies, where they used to be tailors, now they're buying gold and silver, where they used to be umbrellas, today they're automatic clubs. They increased because ten kunas opened their so-called. entrepreneurship that I don't even know why you're not talking about. When the law of twisting is right, you said it well, and really well, because I said it too. The law can't speak and write. Ministers with all respect to you and your men, One sentence please, but someone who doesn't really have any touch points for any twist, except maybe he goes to hairstyle, here. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you very much, colleagues timed out.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58072	My colleagues, it's worth as much to you as it is to others. The answer to the replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58073	Thank you very much. You're right fellow Members, when it comes to traditional crafts to be a little bit of the ministry, they may invest more units of local administrations from their modest budgets towards traditional crafts, but that's also why we're running out of licensing hearts to cobblers, to folk costumes, to... to hators, tailors, but what is booming, so you saw recently when we had reports that exports to Croatia increased by 300% and you can think of buying gold, buying gold. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are the questions that we ask every day in front of us, and we see every day more and more purchases of gold per unit of local administration and in the main squares. The minister was saving and he was saving on the budget, he didn't provide support for the first six months, I hope that he will fix it by the end of the year, but what they were rewarded with, I would say to our craftsmen and our businessmen, are a significant increase in the price of energy from steam, electricity, gas, and to all those I would say the price of energy that greatly affected the final price.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58074	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58075	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My friend Bubalo, none of your hopes. I don't know if you've had a chance to see budget rebalances, four economic ministries minus nearly a billion and 100 million kuna, of which 200 and 70.80 million ministry of craft, 300 million Ministry of Economy, slightly less than 300 million Ministry of Agriculture and about 260, 270 million Ministry of Regional Development. And all this talk just falls into the water. We can't at times if for purely psychological reasons when we have 250 grand unemployed, when we have a decline in gross domestic product, what kind of message we send with budget rebalance, and the economy is crying out for money, it just needs it. So that's it. And the other thing is very interesting that in this law, according to those who have a tradition of 20, 30 years and have proven themselves, and even a few generations, we want to do everything restrictively to them at the same time a very small work space is being released by some companies who unfortunately participated in that huge debt, not charged bills, because over 65% of the blocked companies and over 68% of the blocked funds are companies, companies with limited liability without one employee, and we are now giving them room not to mess up a space where there is a tradition of 160 years. It's really amazing. Because I don't see any reason if someone wants to be a craftsman so let them meet the conditions, let them open a craftsman's shop, if someone wants to open up a society with limited responsibility and open it and perform some activities according to the law. If some jobs can't work without a professional employee, he hires them. But it's crazy in the craftsman's association to say that it can be done by a legal person if at the same time we're saying that the craftsmen...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58076	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58077	Thank you very much. Comrade Shucker, I'll take my turn. You mentioned four ministries that were probably supposed to spend the most money in the first part, and they spent the least, they spard with those other ministries that spent the most. They needed to replace the roles and this very creative part of the budget to develop the economy of craftsmanship, which is what is left in the policies of this government. And when we talk about Plan 21, the plan was 21. It also mentioned craftsmanship, states and economies. From Plan 21, this has grown to plan 71, and you know what 71, there will be 71 billion deficits in this term, which will run in these four years, and this is also written in the budget projection for the next two years. What I want to say today, in agriculture generations have been creating, generations have been doing ol farms, processing the country to the final market, and one day there is Minister Linic who says you can think of me in HBOR we forgive the loans to farmers. Well, they had a business plan based on which they got credit and today they're forgiven for not being able to repay it. By the same quality they work, same way they process the country, they just don't have the incentive of those who had four years ago when they were doing a business plan. Now these are changes that neither craftsmen nor our businessmen can react to and then come before a bankruptcy settlement that still ends this part of healthy craftsmanship and economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58078	Minister Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58079	Thank you very much. It's not good to argue on the basis you get, and you're not sure if everything inside is true. So Mr. Bubalo, try to analyze other things a little bit other than the base you got from the craftsmanship, that's my suggestion, because then you'll be much more precise, so you won't be able to say that the gas installer can do some things because it can't. There's a law that defines it. And even when you have a master's exam or anything else from the craft chamber some gas boiler manufacturers won't give you unless you have their education to install gas. This is just a little clarification that everything you get on the bench doesn't have to be true. This isn't true. A gas installer under this law won't be able to work on a ten kuna company unless he has the necessary education. The second thing, as regards only approved support, means they are all approved, you probably have a problem in the fifth month after the election for the city of Osijek, so you stopped following, but enough is to go to the Ministry's website and you'll see which companies they've all got and from Osijek and incubators and engineering technical school, so a lot of them have received support from the ministry and they've been used and used. Of course, there is no sharing of support in the way that we could follow in the media that was shared by Osijek-Baranja County, that there were few girls. So on this side, the support is very transparently shared and there are certain procedures but they are carried out with maximum responsibility and maximum transparency and maximum efficiency. As for education and crafts, 16 million kunas were spent or used this year, we had in the budget to use. As for traditional crafts, unfortunately we didn't have enough applications, so we used a little less money. But everything we've been planning to do, and this part where Mr. Shucker says what he's reducing the budget, most of it is about the unusableness associated with the projects of the funds of economic co-operation. Look it's an investment in E QUI UITY funds. So that's the part we cut, but we'll make it up next year. If a ministry has grown in these three years of budgets, then it's exactly my ministry that started with 350, 400 million, and next year it's going to be over a billion. So that's what Mr. Schooker is up to, that's what I'm trying to tell you. Investments are in small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, craftsmen, but, of course, in a transparent way, not to their own, but to those who deserve clear criteria, and therefore, if there is a tender that lasts a certain period, if there is an evaluation, then they have a certain period when it has to be used. I know some people take advantage of it very quickly because they already know who they're going to get, but that's not how it works in the government, Mr. Bubalo, it's going in a transparent way. And as far as Mrs Tyrell's family is concerned, there's an objection to the presence of a craftsman regarding the assistance of Mrs Tyrelli's family has submitted an amendment. We'll accept it, so it's really the intensity of this law, and that's how it's gonna be. So you could have submitted the amendment like that, there wouldn't have been any problem. Here's Mrs. Tyrelly did it and we'll accept it and there won't be any need in that article for her to write in the presence of a craftsman. As far as the chamber reform itself is concerned, I simply because it's going through it all the time I now have to enter certain analyses, but I'll tell you that the whole system had more income in 2012 13 million kuna, that only for fees, not on salaries, etc. spent 10 million kuna. means people when they go on the official trip, when they attend the meetings of the Croatian Parliament on a lost day and receive compensation from the Chamber of crafts. So I'm telling you about these things, these things need reforming and changing. Only on those two things is 23 million kuna. And not to mention the wages that go up to $16,17 thousand in gross amounts, but we can talk about that, there's no problem. It's just not my job, it's my job to make some limit that will allow the chamber to function... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58080	A colleague of Miroslav Tudjman's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58081	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister here warned of a dimension that craftsmen must work not only to be trained but to respect the technical and technological standards imposed by this technological development. However, there is one dimension that obviously has not been taken into account by the promoter and where cultural and civilised countries have been taking account for decades, and this is precisely about these traditional and art crafts that have disappeared. As far as I know, in the '70s and '80s, Japan has already taken over, I don't know if it called national scholarships or how for those extinctions, who disappear, who don't even have any more economic justification but in the interest of cultural and national identity that they survive and maintain themselves. Here with these traditional and artistic crafts we have two articles but there is simply no sequel to what is being done and how it takes care of it. And these are things that can't just be done by this ministry, but obviously that's the question of both the Ministry of Culture and some other institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58082	The reply to the replica of Minister Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58083	Thank you very much. We're taking special care of that, but I'll tell you one piece of information that may be partly a failure and my ministry because we may have to go directly to all the craftsmen who deal with traditional crafts, but let's just say that we expected it to be an initiative of the Chamber of craftsmen and the Association of craftsmen. We planned 5 million kunas this year to help with traditional crafts. All those who came forward with all 34 received support and we used 2 million and 100 thousand kuna. Now, let's talk about how much assistance certain support institutions have for craftsmen, which is why this information when we already have such a well-expanded network throughout Croatia and the coverage of craftsmen has not reached every craftsman why they haven't reported. We couldn't use 2 million kunas because there was no application. We have foreseen in the law that we will take special care of this and every year in the impulse, or in the programme of measures, separate funds for traditional crafts. But you asked very well to see what the problem is, so 34 reportedly there are several registered in Croatia. But the information might be mine, too. I'll make personal contacts with everyone next year because I figured they might do a little bit of work and those who support craftsmen through associations and through HOK. 2 million 900 thousand kunas remained unused in that item, of course not used in the total item because we switched to other programs. But it's a shame they didn't use that money.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58084	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58085	Mr. Minister, ever since God and the world and craftsmanship were said, every firm she held to herself has, with a master's examination, insisted that she give a certificate to someone that she could work on or work on her product. And the logical thing is that he's doing it today. And it's in the interest of every craftsman starting with auto mechanics through electrics, etc. to be tied to a company Therefore, the certificate does not mean anything that is something extra. [[Intruder: Please listen to the replica.]] The logical thing is that every renowned foreign company when it comes to Croatia if it wants to have its repairman for the simple reason it says that no one but an authorised repairer can do it because he will eventually be its promoter. And then, in the end, he pushes it, and he spreads the net to himself as it pleases him. Well, that's the most logical thing. And if you want a gas heater or someone to fix some guy who doesn't have a certificate, you're doing it at your risk and more or less in the joint. Therefore, the certificate does not mean anything. But it's just not good to push something in craftsmen that doesn't have room. I don't see why you insist so much that a legal person can be a craftsman, I don't understand it. So where we've even defined tax laws if a craftsman crosses certain boundaries to give him the opportunity to remain a craftsman but that he has to run double accounting, so that he has to be equal on the market with someone. But we're going backwards now, not to some kind of company that founded the company for 10 kuna, you don't have to be D.O.O. You can function as a craftsman. What's the point of that?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58086	The reply to the replica of Minister Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58087	Mr. Schuker, you said more or less what I said and at first means that protecting consumers of quality is not exclusively in the domain, not even in this case master exams of the crafts chamber. So we agree here. But obviously we didn't get along well because I told you that it's not possible legally in fusa can do whatever it wants because there's no control there, but legally it's not possible to repair gas installations unless you have a legal certificate or a certain belief. Had a company of 10, had a trade, had a company of 2 million kuna, any company, that's what I'm talking about. So your concern has no basis. You obviously didn't understand what I was saying. And I'm talking, I'm gonna do it again. It is not possible to do gas installations legally, I say illegally, who can do what they want because it is outside the domain of any law, it is not possible to do gas installations unless you have the certificates that Zagreb City Gasker recognises in Zagreb. But that's also for 10 kunas. So someone can't open a 10 company without having those certificates and going to repair the gas installations. ... Well, okay, so you were saying that now I'm legally allowing it to be done, it can't, this law can't do it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's the whole story. He can't. You don't get it. You don't get it. But I'll get two more, three more times to explain myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58088	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58089	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'd like you to be right about the gas-installers, I'd like to apologize to you right away. But based on my information, your information is incorrect. But I wish you were right, and I'd apologize to you first. But I think we've read the same law, so there can be no difference in law and law enforcement. What I expected you to say when it comes to spending funds from the ministry that you spent more than 15% of the first six months, but I didn't hear that answer, but I sincerely hope you spend the funds you have in the forward ministry. But you also mentioned the city of Osijek, I must admit as a unit of local administration that I have had quite good cooperation with both your ministry and the ministry where Minister Vrdoljak is. But following, there is now a little more time, the last six months have not been much support for the city of Osijek. Therefore, I expected you to provide much more support. What I want to say is also when you talk about the transparency of my experience and my knowledge that what you say in Osijek-Baranja County is more transparent than in many local administration units. But when we talk about your job your job must be results. But it is evident at this point that these results are gone and they are missing. What I suggest you learn from those who know and do not make mistakes that you do as this law does. But I would like you to fight for craftsmen as you fight for this legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58090	What's the problem? Just a minute. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, but you didn't just say.]] The reply to the replica of Minister Maras. [[- Yeah, Mr. Shucker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58091	Thank you very much. But you didn't just say who you were supposed to learn from. Which are the better ones? I hope you're not referring to this case of granting support in Osijek-Baranja County. That's not what I'm gonna do. That's how we give support. That's not how it's done, it's transparent. As for the support, it is very simple and accessible to everyone on my ministry's website so you can hear what happened in Osijek-Baranja County. 126 support, 7 million and 800,000 kuna. Since you are covering a slightly wider area, I will give you all of Slavonia, Požega-Slavon County 49 support, million 50,000 kuna, Vukovar-Srijem County 96 support, 3 million 254 thousand kuna, Brod-Posavina 76 support, 5 million 190 thousand kuna, it seems to me that I've still skipped 63 support, 5 million 972 thousand kuna. Here it is, it's all clear by the projects, where whoever, very much in Osijek, two incubators, the engineering school, so all we've done is go to www.minpo.hr and you can see everything. There is no need to wait for the budget report next year. You can see everything right now. Why wait six months?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58092	Miss twilight replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58093	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here it is, Mr. Minister, the basis for our debate today is your law. The basis for our debate today is, of course, co-operation, as well as objections and the Croatian Chamber of crafts and craftsmen themselves, and I have to tell you individuals about us, experience because some of us come from a family that deals with craftsmanship. I hope your family doesn't get hurt tomorrow because of this show. But I wanted to say, of course everyone welcomed the establishment of a ministry like this. And on the other hand, you ministers should have made one positive climate for craftsmen to feel like you're their ministry. Unfortunately, you were wrong. You were wrong, the first thing you did was conflict with the Croatian Chamber of crafts. And that's bad. So all of this base comes down exclusively to the Croatian Chamber of crafts. And it's the fact that they are in the most endangered crafts, traditional crafts, that as colleagues Bubalo and Milosevic and colleagues Tudjman said, and you know it yourself is not defined. The fact is, you're talking about someone who sets up gas installations, etc. that we all consumers work on our own responsibility but the fact is that those who can work in the house like I told you can work neatly, now I've thrown myself on a pizza roast, they can bake pizza without a problem, they don't need to order a certificate, right? But in order to open the pizzeria they must have both space and conditions means work, from hygienic-sanitary... not to be longer now. So it would be very good, and maybe I would support a colleague of the HNS, if you really tried one more time...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58094	Hey, buddy, check it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58095	Forgive her. Think about this one more time, lower the tension and say let's do it one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58096	Thank you very much. That's why you have a screen here, so watch, watch the weather. Follow the time, don't watch the minister. [[I'm looking at the minister.]] Replication response, Minister Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58097	Thank you very much. Mrs. twilight, I didn't know that until today, but you're obviously in the twist before you go into politics. So you had a windscreen, right? ... Okay, so that's information that I'm not familiar with today, but I can see that you're very much on the subject of craftsmanship, and that especially here from the HDZ Club, we've got amendments that have been faithfully copied from the amendments sent by the Chamber of Commerce, but that's a good thing. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So that's the same attitude means club, it's amazing to me, and in the last debate, the same attitude of the HDZ Representatives Club was the Croatian Chamber of crafts. It's just identical, that there's not a single decimal difference, so it's almost amazing how it always fits into the eyelash that they say. But good, so it's good to have that same headline or motivation that you're in this fight for an institution that works very hard and that's okay. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to tell you that everything we've suggested and, of course, third reading is out of the question because we've been preparing this law for over six months and in a public debate and in two readings. Since the first reading, it's been six months, there's been a lot of communication about him, people need him, and we're gonna bring him in. Not because someone wants it over their knees, but because the craftsmen need it, because there's a lot of good things inside that people are waiting for. And it doesn't occur to me to let a yearly 300-400 performances be made on craftsman's real estate, to shut down two or three thousand crafts because someone's going to retire, etc. We're sure to apply these things right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58098	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists-Party of Work, colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58099	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, respected craftsmen, colleagues and colleagues. We've heard a lot about this law on crafts, second reading. I'd like to try to make things as clear as we can, make it easier for everyone and make it as little confusion as possible. I am pleased that you will accept this amendment that I have given which is extremely important because otherwise that article does not make sense because the family is here right now to help the craftsman at the time he has other obligations, so it is physically impossible for them to be together. Maybe it was a mistake that we'd like to correct. So we came into one situation that we formed a new ministry, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, forgetting that essentially all craftsmen, entrepreneurs, because entrepreneurship is just one way of carrying out some kind of activity, cutting off certain profits, creating some new value with a normal vision and some goals that every craftsman or entrepreneur has. And if what's probably been our problem for a long time now is that entrepreneurship and craftsmanship are looking at them in a different way and we're not looking at them with the same eyes, and a lot of mistakes have happened exactly in what we've been pushing craftsmen to the other side all along when we're talking about the development of entrepreneurship, projects, programs and the entrepreneurial spirit that Croatia would want to achieve as a state. There are mistakes in our footsteps, there are mistakes in law making, and then what happens to us is that this craft as a natural person who is so registered, always remains at one point at the end of the chain, and at the end of the chain is always when you should get information, resources and all that you need, or at the beginning of the chain, when you have to pay the dues and when you have to settle the payments, then from the Tax Administration to the inspection, everyone is most likely to come to the craftsmen just because they know that every mandate and criminal punishment will be charged quickly, and because they will generally have the least problems with the craftsman, and the reason was that everyone who registered as a craftsman was responsible for their entire assets. He didn't act like he meant his property but he acted like that because of this culture, the tradition of craftsmanship, and everything that especially a craftsman, a second or third generation lives on from his predecessors. So a craftsman in this context can and should be viewed differently, but always as one size of which we have very much and from which we get very much, rather than different from entrepreneurship. The problem we have now is next. So on the one hand, we have the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, which means the ministry that aims to be the well-being of craftsmen. On the other hand, we have a Croatian crafts chamber with the sole goal of being the well-being of craftsmen and in the middle are craftsmen such as those belonging to both the Ministry and the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen, and at some point we probably don't understand why certain things are happening and what's wrong. So what we need to define is that both the Ministry and the Croatian Chamber of crafts must work exclusively for the benefit of craftsmen. We don't have any more philosophies. One and the other objectives must be to make a craftsman as easy as possible, as soon as possible to obtain the necessary information and that information is to him the capital that will serve him to achieve added value, so that he can earn on account of these added values, pay workers and to the state to pay taxes and all taxes on this matter. We are now in a situation where the craftsman was left at the end of the chain again. And what the craftsmen complain about when it is the Croatian Chamber of crafts is that Croatian crafts chambers do not receive inputs that they believe would help them develop their craftsmanship. And that is a fundamental problem. So we need to know if a particular service, and in this case the service is called this chamber contribution I pay x kuna. What I get for those x kunas as a craftsman, no matter what the law tells me, I must be a member of that chamber. We are coming up with another problem, and this is definitely the problem of restructuring the Chamber of crafts and adapting the Chamber of crafts with all due respect to all the centuries of tradition that it has to adapt to new opportunities on the market. And new opportunities on the market are Croatia's entry into the EU, European funds and entrepreneurs who need these funds. Each entrepreneur complains that the Ministry of Economy has called a tender, that the Ministry of Agriculture has called a tender, that the Ministry of Environmental Protection has called a tender and that such competitions have at one point a terrible number. However, the craftsman has a basic problem. In order for it to earn and economic, it must carry out its basic activity for which it has a registered trade. And he doesn't have time to be on the Internet and be on the pages of various ministries to know at any moment what competition until when it lasts and what this competition gives him and what he can through that competition. There should be a main and key role played by the Croatian Chamber of crafts where the craftsman will open only one single or possibly two pages in the morning, depending on who takes the obligation to serve it neatly, which is to open the site or HOC or the site of the ministry and to see the competitions opened in one place, see the required incentives and see the dates to which it can be reported and what conditions it has in a particular competition. At that point, both the Ministry of crafts and the Croatian Chamber of crafts will fulfil one part of their obligations. When I talk about reorganising the Chamber of crafts, one of the goals should be, and that is for the sole reason to regain that trust of craftsmen in the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen, the transparency of business during whether three months, six months, nine months or a year. So, you quarterly, you do yearly. Every craftsman must at any time know what the Croatian Chamber of crafts spent money on, how much the craftsman costs the president of the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen, how much the centre costs, and how much the area office costs. And it is one of the tools for the trust of craftsmen to return to the Croatian Chamber of crafts, and on the other hand, it is a tool in the responsibility of people who are in the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen to spend money in a transparent way and that this is exactly how spending money remains more money that will then be placed on the ground by craftsmen. And that should be some of the questions for us. I'll just use the Ministers now that you're here, I have a few questions. So now we've been fighting over what the gas installer has to have in the craft, which must be in the legal entity. I'd like to go see a hairdresser, and I'd like to paint myself. I, as a user and as a consumer, want to have maximum service, so we're not talking about explosions, we're talking about something else. In this law, I read that even a legal person must, therefore, have certain conditions or must have an employee who fulfils the conditions of a craftsman. Now, we're about to come to a particular problem about the rulebook in tied crafts. We have an inquiry and I think you've got a question from our club and we're waiting for an answer to answer. So we have a rule about tied turns and we're specifically talking about a hairdresser. I am the owner of the hair salon, I have a master's exam, and I want to open a separate drive. In order for me to open up this isolated drive under the Rules on tied crafts, and this is a hairdressing activity in that isolated drive, I need to re-establish to the manager the person who has completed the master's exam. I have a problem because there's no person at the Employment Service who's finished her master's exam and isn't employed. Because in most cases, that person, at the time they pass the master's exam, opens their own crafts. Now, on the one hand, we talk about entrepreneurship, the development of entrepreneurship, the promotion of craftsmanship, the opening of new plants, that is, new ones, and we come up with a situation that I simply can't open up a new hair salon, I can't hire another person because they don't exist physically. And what would be extremely good for, I tried to give the amendment but I couldn't put it anywhere in a way that he would be appropriate to it. But I think we could change that, or you could change it through the Regulation and my proposal just to be enforceable is next. So, if the craftsman has in his hair salon a worker who, for example, works for a year or two years, has completed the High School of Hairdressing, has two years experience, that I can place her as a craftsman of the facility in that second separate drive in one within the time of, for example, the Brdsko-Moline Area or this special area, where the person will then have the opportunity to pass the master's exam within two years. I don't think we'd lose anything, and on the other hand, we'd give the craftsmen space if they could open up any more power plants, or any additional kind of hair salons or anything else where they'd hire a certain workforce again. And that also raises the question of how long is the working time of the craftsman, or the owner of the craftsman? Why can't I, as the owner of the craftsman, be the host of one facility for four hours, let's say, a four-hour host in another facility and hire a person with medium professional training without a master's exam. And I'm telling you that no craftsman who does business will allow himself to open another drive or another facility, put in it a person who is not an expert, a person who does not know, and will do anything on purpose to harm the consumer or the user of his services because he is the one who lives out of these consumers and of those users. So these are some things that are life and that we need to solve, which is the task of both craft chambers and the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts. Another problem, the big problem we have is the predestination of the crafts or the relationship of the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration pardons the craftsmen entering the pretense. The situation is very unpleasant, very, very questionable. Now we have a case last week called me a craftsman who couldn't get into pre-war because it was given him eight days that he had to pay for a second pension stake and a crafts chamber so he could go to him for the rest of his debt in advance so he could even talk about a pre-war deal. So we're coming up with a problem where a craftsman who, we're saying is important to him, must first settle his debt to the Chamber of crafts so that he can open up a pre-fashion procedure at all. Now, I don't want to get into whether this case is isolated, whether it's just the IRS where it happened, but I really do appeal to the Chamber of crafts, and also to the Ministry of crafts and entrepreneurship to take the most of it, and that it's just all the powers that it tends to solve these things because when we start to solve these things, and for these things every day we write to him a guide which, where, where and for whom, which laws apply, what it must do, we don't need to be afraid anymore that the Law on craftsy will not go away or that anyone on the Law of Turning will have any misunderstanding other than those small technical ones that can be solved and can be implemented. Finally, I would just like to see here the Minister if you have such a big influence, so when you go to craftsmen and communicate with them I know that you go around a lot especially in these County Chambers, I would really ask you to take at least an hour to go to development agencies or when you are in development agencies and you're talking about big entrepreneurship projects to use a little time to talk to these development agencies and about those craftsmen who, as a rule of development agencies, believe me get me no or very, very small inputs in making any projects. And again, we return to that story that the craftsman is left alone and must draw 60, 70, or 80,000 kuna from his own pocket to pay someone who has a license to make EU projects and money to satisfy their needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58100	Thank you, colleague. Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58101	Thank you very much. You ask your colleagues what the Chamber of crafts is giving you? We know exactly what the powers of the crafts chamber are and what it gives. In fact, you were talking about saving money a little while ago, so they should be making money. Well, it's not a chamber bank to place money to craftsmen, but she does it in a different way. And when it comes to transparency in the Chamber of crafts in certain cities and municipalities, and I have been here for the last 4 years as mayor of Osijek attended congregations in the Chamber of Commerce and I know well that the report is always being submitted, but they are also making plans for the next period. Therefore, everything is transparent I would say in lip amounts to what the funds were spent on and whether it is falling away from the plan, and never happened to bounce away from the plan. And I believe that's true in other local administration units. Therefore, in these craft chambers, funds must be spent transparently.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58102	Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58103	Thank you. So here's a respected colleague I didn't say in terms of spending money in any other way than to let the craftsmen know, and I didn't mean those craftsmen sitting on boards and boards. So, I didn't talk to those craftsmen, the problem with craftsmanship is non-communication. The information doesn't come to the last craftsman, and that's where the gun comes back to the craftsman's chamber. And in that part it needs to reorganise the craft chamber, especially in that the craft chamber has a perfectly solved scheme complex throughout the Republic of Croatia. So the information needs to come to a craftsman precisely because the craftsman trusts in that craft chamber and knows what he gets for that money, which is not the case now. Because the craftsman's chamber normally won't go for the sleeve and say look you got from me you can get that, that, that and that and you have for that money you paid in the chamber right to it, that, that and that. No, but systematic education, systematic transmission of information exactly like I said because when will the craftsman be interested in the chamber? Then when he gets what he needs in the chamber at that point. If the VAT Act changes tomorrow and the VAT law changes for the hosts then we must understand that all the hosts do not live in Zagreb, that all the hosts do not live in the big city but that we also have those hosts who live in small rural areas that come to information later. Then the task of that craft chamber to warn that particular craftsman has changed your VAT, will come to you with the Ministry of Finance's inspection and see how you're going to calculate VAT from today. So these are just one little thing where the craft chamber should be available to a craftsman so that the crafter has confidence in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58104	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58105	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Yes, colleagues of Tyrelli, you spoke well. So now we have the ministry, we have the Croatian Chamber of crafts and of course they should work closely together but also with craftsmen alike. I'd warn you again, so I don't want to go to high and small entrepreneurship when it comes to over 50, 60 employees. I'm going to warn again about traditional turns where the older population works. Unfortunately, children see how they treat their fathers and parents. Rare are they, and I congratulate them on this way, who either daughters or sons inherited those turns. They're rare and they'll be the bearers of one part of society tomorrow. They really will, but they need help. They are many, ministers in the premises are in the town of Zagreb. Let's say one part of the funds you call them, see you have information, cooperate with the chamber, help, co-finance the purchase of these business spaces, co-finance, no, there's no, there's a crisis, 317 in the city of Zagreb has closed down these small crafts, no tailors, no more real goldsmiths, though there may still be, no furrows, no cobblers, no clocks, we don't have clocks, there we had in Mišec's passage, no more. But people can't do it anymore, they'll lock up more than this 317. Help them, help them co-finance the purchase of business spaces, wave them in state-owned business spaces, help them because they simply won't solve their existential issue differently, and you're right when you say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58106	Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58107	Thank you. Minister, I'm a minute of replica, you're a minute of replica. As far as traditional crafts, we even have some lines to encourage traditional crafts, and that's what we're going to think about, let's think about it as we probably do at a certain point, we need this thinking to bring us something, but what we don't take advantage of in these traditional crafts, and let's say we entered the EU because these very traditional turns are to say our picture. What we are and what we are and what we should use in one way to present ourselves through these twists and to show our values to the world. But in order for these traditional turns to survive can't survive the twist itself. The man who does the bidding heart must be joined with someone else who also does those bidding hearts. So there's again the task of both craft chambers and ministries to talk about cooperatives, to talk about clusters, to talk about what it means to network crafts. We have other problems now with the craftsmen themselves that the craftsman doesn't always trust and we always have unknowns which are clusters and why I have to go in somewhere with someone else I don't know. So we have a big task ahead of us that we're all working on it together. Education, education and education, and I will again say education because the opportunities of craftsmanship have definitely changed and changed from day to day, and that is why we need that reorganisation that we talked about earlier just to make sure that we all adapt to new opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58108	And Domagoj Hajdukovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58109	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Tyrelli, you took this, you took the opportunity, you discussed it on behalf of the club, and I think it's a good thing that you discussed it because you warned us about some life problems. In these discussions, we have now heard a lot about problems that unfortunately this law cannot solve, therefore from liquidity, the security of charge, etc., etc. However, what I would ask you since your colleague Vuksic said that in organic laws if I understood it correctly your club has the freedom to choose whether it will be for or against. Then I'm interested in the position of your club. Do you have it, and whether you have it personally as far as this law is concerned, because you have warned of problems but you have not said whether it is acceptable for you as such or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58110	Comrade Hajdukovic, it is his right colleague whether or not to declare himself. Don't say that. colleague Nancy Tyrelli, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58111	Well, I'll make it clear in a way, we've got a vote on Friday, and I think every Friday at the polls, when there's a vote of the Law on Turning, look at me, and you'll see how I'm going to vote. That's the answer to that question, and I'm telling you life experiences because I've only been a craftsman for 22 years, so I speak for good purposes, in good faith, and really what I really care about, which I really care about, not only when it comes to craftsmanship, but anything. We must pass laws without these laws being enforceable and understandable because if we pass the Law on craftsmanship this law must first be understood by a craftsman and he must be written in the best faith to meet all those needs of craftsmen. Neither the Ministry of crafts nor the Croatian Chamber of crafts are important. We've been talking about the crafts as something that's been working since the roller coaster, since we've known about our crafts. In this, people who invest their time, their money, their energy, their knowledge, their abilities and create what we all use and what we all need, and these people have to understand these laws and they have to be written exclusively for their sake and for their own good whether we talk about craftsmen or talk about students or about doctors or anyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58112	We're moving on to an individual debate. Domagoj Hajdukovic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58113	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here's at the beginning to just apologize to my colleague Tyrelli, and I'll watch you vote, but actually what I missed out on is saying that in a lot of things I actually agree with you. So why I've decided at all for an individual debate is that I'm just about to make some of my personal views on this law, or especially on segments, when we're talking about a HOC that's obviously a top topic today. On purpose, I didn't want to give too much importance in my presentation on behalf of the club because I think there are a lot of other elements in the law that are worth mentioning. And I don't think it means that in the debate so far there's been a thesis that maybe it's not the best time to discuss chamber systems, I just think the opposite is the right time. I wish we'd talked about chamber systems eight years ago. And right now I have to say that we can't put a sign of equality between HGK and HOK because access to work, mode of work, philosophy at all of these chambers is completely different to me because I've had contact with both of them. And I think there's a HOC, so I'm reading a spear above the HGK when we're talking about some work stuff. However, I must also mention that I have already mentioned in the replica that the chamber as such or the concept of the chamber as such has become obsolete to me. Why do we even have a turn? Where did we inherit this concept of craft? So if we haven't spoken since the 19th century, I really have great respect for one of the oldest institutions in Croatia, so that's exactly the crafts chamber. It flows from the last state where the trade or trade was then so called was the only way in which you could be a private asking to do something private that was not in that famous joint work, etc. And just a lot of debates on this topic went in this direction to make the difference between the crafts as such... and the company in existence at least slowly loses on the market. Because with this simple limited-responsibility society, it has been mentioned to you that it is cheaper to be d.o.o., to do things that you can do as a craftsman or that you can't do as a craftsman if you're not these professions than to be a craftsman to invest in it, etc. On the other hand, with initial stakes with some initial capital which is again the difference between d.o.o. And the craftsman is almost gone. So as I said only means then the real difference remains at the charge of the issued account or not paying VAT on the issued account but on the charge. But it's still not as much of an advantage as I said about a large part of craftsmen who mostly work with small sums and who are mostly charged in cash immediately, so here I'm talking about hairdressers and some similar service activities to caterers in most cases, etc. Therefore, in my view, the differences between small entrepreneurship craftsmanship and in some segments and medium entrepreneurship are slowly disappearing. And because of that, when we talk about the chamber, I think that the transformation of chambers to restructure chambers if you want because we used that expression most often should lead to it becoming a HOK chamber and a small chamber or maybe even middle entrepreneurship, but I definitely think that's the way we should follow. There is also a big difference between the association of craftsmen, county craft chambers and ultimately the roof organization of the crafts chamber. For these craftsmen's associations, at least with those I've spoken to are mostly examples of good practice. But you also have examples of bad practice and again we agree unfortunately on that human factor where we do not have unique criteria that all craftsmen, regardless of the areas in which they exist, could give equal and quality access to the information and services that the chamber offers. Now what it's like to prescribe it. I'm not the same advocate that everything is prescribed by law, but I'm afraid sometimes we just don't have a choice is the only way to try and make some changes. So the craftsmen's association are with their membership I can say you have exceptional examples because craftsmen's associations as such and should provide craftsmen with information exactly what you said, provide expert advice in the field of rights, techniques, taxes and such. So if you're an auto mechanic and you're opening your craft, you want to hire another person to put together a working contract thing with which you're dealing with, and it's exactly the role of the chamber, among other things, to support you there. I'm not just talking about legal issues, I'm talking about technical laws, regulations that you need to respect and everything else. I was a little interested in preparing for this debate as the chambers were resolved in some EU countries. First of all, I have put emphasis on whether the law requires membership in chambers. And here I have to tell you that the solutions are very different and diverse, and that's where I would single out three. You have a Republic of Romania that has a similar regulation as we do where the law precisely recognizes the revenues of the chamber and membership. They call it membership, now whether it's right in the original language might have gotten a little lost in English. You have, for example, the Republic of Austria, which states tax-basedly in the legislative regulations that are the revenues of the chamber, including membership fees, allows for the possibility of membership and very strictly prescribes how this membership fee is calculated, while, for example, the level of membership is left to the regional and federal chambers, since their state organisation is something different. You have our neighbouring Hungary, where the law does not recognise membership or regulate it at all, but it is regulated by the statute of the chamber. So one very different system, different approaches as such. In my view, since I'm running out of time, this is my humble contribution to the entire debate on the chamber, I see two possible paths where the chamber can go. So one model is that the chamber remains mandatory. But what does that mean? This means first of all that I need to regulate a mandatory contribution by law. Anyone who wants to give more who thinks the chamber has earned a greater contribution can do so and no one will defend it. The chamber must certainly be transformed by me from the craftsman to the chamber of crafts and small entrepreneurship, there we could talk about the middle but it's still a matter of discussion. In any case, stricter supervision of the spending of public money should be introduced, not only in the chamber system but also in each other, because unfortunately we also see examples of other chambers, which means irresponsible spending of public money. And, of course, if the chamber remains required to remain the public powers it has exercised or therefore, if we are talking about the issue of master's diplomas or the maintenance of master's exams, I do not find them controversial. I think this law is now at least on the trail of this and I can personally greet it. Another way, or another way we can go so that the chamber does not remain mandatory. Now what it means to the chamber system as such. In my view, this would primarily mean that the chamber would then definitely be on the market for certain trade associations to determine their own contribution. I missed the mention, actually I didn't miss mentioning it, but if the chamber doesn't stay mandatory here you have another problem. Since the chamber does not function as a single legal person unlike HGK HOK, each association is a legal person. So what about the property, then, is all the property the craftsmen have built for generations. What's gonna happen to her? So, if I don't know, the chamber is shut down, or one pre-empted association of craftsmen whose property is going. Certainly, if the chamber does not remain mandatory, it needs to be transformed. So, to me again, from the craftsman only to the chamber of crafts and small entrepreneurship but then, first of all, because of the chamber that is on the market to increase the simple market. Because craftsmanship participates with about 5% of our GDP, small and medium-sized enterprises mean when it's all summed up it's more than 50%, so it's a very large market for you. But then the issue is actually entering the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. And certainly if the chamber does not remain mandatory here I agree with the minister it is necessary to provide for a transitional period, what it will be, whether it will be a year, two years, three years, it is again a matter of debate and agreement. But you can't cut off completely and say now you're mandatory, now you're not, you just have to consider that the association of craftsmen of the county chamber, and even the state chamber must get used to the new situation, or adapt accordingly and reform. However, if the chamber does not remain mandatory, the issue of public authority, i.e. master's exams, remains open. In that case, the chamber in my opinion shouldn't have that authority. But then the chamber becomes just one consulting company that can make the market better or worse but does not change the fact that then it is no longer a chamber in the right sense of the word. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58114	Natalija Martincevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58115	Here is Honorable colleague Hajduković, you at the beginning of your debate with full right have expressed concern about the existence of craftsmen and craftsmen by actually asking the question which is the taste of this debate, one part of this debate, which is actually the difference at the end between craftsmen and what is the difference between d.o.o. for 10 kuna. And I think it's actually the goal of this debate and this law that's being passed that we create the right policies that will help our craftsmanship. And other countries today we talked about this strong economy fostering craftsmanship and their legal solutions encourage craftsmanship because many times it has proved in the greatest crises and in the most difficult times that it is actually craftsmanship that carries an economy that is actually a solid pillar of society. And we also need to regulate the activities of craftsmen and craftsmen legally. And you also mentioned the VAT as so one advantage of craftsmen and the collection of VAT at the collection of claims, I don't know you're probably familiar with that legal provision being lifted from 1.1.2015, which will indeed be a very difficult additional blow to our craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58116	Replication response. No, I don't. Boris Blazekovic, Josip Boric and Suncana Glavak are not present, so they lose the right to debate at this point. And the final word of the minister, colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58117	Thank you very much for the debate, but here he is at this late hour, but we've brought it to an end. I'm glad we discussed the very detailed provisions of the new law. I'm a little less glad that we discussed the chamber more than a lot of these good things that are legally defined and that will help people to make tomorrow easier for them. And yet when we all vote on this law we also vote on 300 commissions per year on real estate for 20, 30, 40 thousand kunas which will not be passed when the law is passed. When we all vote on this law we also vote on a few thousand pensioners who have retired and who can pass the trade, I can't do it right now. All when we vote we vote on safe 70, 80,000 family members who will be able to help craftsmen in their work and will not have to start a work contract and will not have to be present on site, so the craftsman will not have to be present at the place where the craft is carried out. All when we vote we also vote on certain financial reductions, burdens on all 82 thousand crafts regardless of how much they are and whether a craftsman who wants to contribute because no one in this debate has mentioned in this debate that there is the possibility of funding the chamber system from through additional voluntary contributions and through certain services, and even in these contracts, all of this can be defined and done. And the development agency, you mentioned work, provide support. And I'm going to tell you again, I spend a lot of time on supporting institutions because it's a very important tool to use the funds we have. Because basically our goal next year is to spend everything that is available to us from the European Union. And without supporting institutions, we won't be able to do that. But here to start by answering my question to my colleague and asking her how and what if they have isolated drives there's no one on the market with a master's exam, the answer is simple, you need to take someone who's qualified and pay him a master's exam and we're going to refund the money. As a ministry last year, 1263 craftsmen were thus co-financed or employed by craftsmen. So they weren't all craftsmen, but 1263 people got 75% refunds for a master's exam or for expenses costing 2600 kuna. And we'll keep doing that. So here you can see that the state indirectly and from the budget is funding a certain I would say the activity of the craft chamber because it is the income of the craft chamber, so that 2600 kuna is the income of the craft chamber. And we do it indirectly through other programmes, the IT competences of craftsmen where we are also working together, and through me I would say co-financing of scientists or students, so we have a lot of programs and this entire programme of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship will be even bigger in the coming years, and we will especially use the funds available to us for self-employment from European Structural Funds where Croatia will open up a whole range of new programmes that are ahead of us. But what we should insist on is I would say that people in Croatia are at a lower risk and this is what we do with this law, and all of which, of course, we will give support to this law, regardless of certain differences and different views of certain provisions, we have to agree that a large part of the people will have less risk than the day the law is applied, and that will be soon and in some ways I am looking forward to watching more of those scenes on the real estates where people live. And on the other hand, if we protect one person in this way, we've already done a big thing with this law, and that's why we shouldn't put into the first place some things that have dominated here and some things that have already had to be reformed I'd say 20 years. So some things don't change or change slowly. When you have the ability to reform any organization, I know it's not easy to do in a short time, but if you don't have the incentive then it's very difficult that it'll ever happen. And here's the incentive right now for the chamber to move in that direction, to start offering services, and again I say it won't be as dramatic as some think it is because there are claims that are open, there are additional revenues that aren't just about the contribution. The contribution will decrease more than 50%, but other revenues will remain at the level of such that the chamber will again have as a system 70-80 million kuna at year level. Well, that's not a very small amount of money. And I think that when we look, and we mention housing development agencies that I think are one of the best co-workers in the use of both the European Union and our budget incentives, they function with minimal resources. So these 20 development agencies, if on average they have a million, a million and a half kuna, that's the top of their heads. So something that's total opposite I'd say point, so with someone we're working with most, much less money than I'd say chambers that are available, well now we're not going to talk about economics, I agree with my colleague Hajdukovic that it's not the same pair of sleeves with regard to the organization, and also in a way that exists because they're still the foundation of a craftsman's association, and he was the foundation of a roof organization, or one person who's been there for an alpha and omega for 18 years, and normally it can't be the same. But there is still a great opportunity for progress. And I said, if we're talking about reform, only 2-3 data and 20-30 million kunas can be made, I don't see that problem if there's a will, and that's why I'm not worried that something will stop working. But I still can't get involved in internal organizations and propose these things, I can't think of that. This will have to be agreed by colleagues in the chamber, meaning with clear gauges that exist and the way they will function in the future, means the Croatian Chamber of crafts. But what I want, I'm absolutely up for it, and I'm going to do it one more time, to move towards voluntary membership. I'm sure it'll be within a few years where we'll have institutions people want to pay for because we didn't invent something, we're not new. Otherwise, what counterpart Hajdukovic was saying refers to chambers of commerce, not craft chambers, right. So if we were to talk about mandatory craft chambers then there would be even less countries to talk about, probably just a few. Here we have now the last case of Slovenia that left it half a year ago. And just to remind you once again, it means voluntary membership, I didn't have the information for 28, I had 18 countries, so I apologize. So Luxembourg, Belgium, Italy, Spain, Poland, Finland, Sweden, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Slovenia, Slovakia, Ireland, mandatory membership of Greece, the Netherlands, Germany and France, which has a special model where money is also left at the disposal of local self-government units. So that's the income that's directly income from local self-government units. So I don't think we're wrong about anything too much if we're going in that direction, if we're going to have a model like that in two years, because that's how it works in most European countries, also where they have a tradition not 160 but maybe more years than we are, and where there's this model that you mentioned that people are getting information that day, but then they know that, I've given an annual membership fee and I know that every morning I'm going to get a notice about everything, and if there's a seminar somewhere, where I can report to the competition, and that's those services, and not that you have to come to deinstitutionalisation to have someone fill you with a virman. They don't need that, they learn that very quickly. They need a way to get the funds, how to fill out the competition. So here's me, for example, for the European Union funds, I've had a competition where I choose projects to help consultants make tender documentation because these are procedures that require a profession in a way that I can even compete for the project. That's what craftsmen and entrepreneurs need to do for help and trust me, no one would mind paying for such a favor if they knew it would ultimately benefit them. But again, I can't do it. I don't work there or that's my job. But what I can do with legislation is I'd say that there's no such absolute security anymore. No one in Croatia has absolute security in the way they know I'll get that money tomorrow and I'll distribute it as he wants. And if and how many favors I'm going to deliver, nobody's going to ask me, and when he asks me, then I'm going to call on what. So on that side absolute security when you have then things happen that you're not proactive, that you're not present, that there's this feeling that Mrs. Tyrelly was talking about, that you have these responses through and through the media, through reactions, through research, etc. And that's why I don't see any tragedy, no problem. I think that's possible. I think the state is enough I would say able to assess that something can be done especially when we're talking here said by colleague Hajdukovic it's about a lot of separate I would say organization and legal persons 120 and several. So they all have here I don't know my colleague Bubalo went to Osijek nine employees. So 5 at the POK, 4 at the Association of craftsmen. I don't think I want to arbitration whether it's too much or not, or in Zagreb where we have 50, almost 50 employees in HOK and even in POK more than 10 who have trust me very, very decent incomes. There are people out there who earn more than a minister. So there's space. I can't do it, but I just can't tolerate it anymore that people have to do it after they pay for it. Whoever wants it can vote to keep it that way. But I, as a promoter and minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia who proposed this law, simply want things to change and things to change. And what's best believe me is the support of craftsmen in that sense was shown and the most criticism I received during the debate in this law when they got the information that they were returning the proposal from voluntarily to mandatory membership. But we still decided I said to take a step to voluntary membership in this way to reduce the chamber contribution. And that's something that I think we should all respect and ultimately what I'm most pleased about is that all of these things that I've listed before will bring a lot of benefits to Croatian citizens, especially those who want to earn something even more in retirement, craftsmen who will have a lower risk and who will have greater help from their family without fear and in some way that we will have a law that will be more appropriate at this point. Of course, all the things that show that I can improve thank God we'll change, it's no problem at all. But the great progress we've made with this bill of artisans will feel very soon, I hope from next week. Thank you very much for the discussion and have a nice evening.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58118	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. Tomorrow we will begin at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax and a half, further on the agenda, so far as we can get there. Thank you very much and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58119	Final proposal of the Law on crafts, second reading, PZE No 370. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline laid down in its Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, we will first vote whether we will discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 98 votes, we have accepted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the proposing representative to explain the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order. Amendment No 1 of the Ministers of Respect to Article 81
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here after the debate in Parliament, we decided to replace the word plan in Article 81 paragraph 2. It was also part of an inspired debate by one of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58121	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement on Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most 82 votes in favour and 15 abstentions have been accepted by amendment number 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to article 81.zakon. Amendment No. 2 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Ministers of Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58122	Amendment 2 to Article 89 of the Alley 4 of the terms of power shall be deleted in the implementation of the education of craftsmen. It means Article 78. The law is set out precisely by public authorities, so this definition is not necessary and will be deleted in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58123	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Article 89. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state who is for amendment number 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most 82 votes in favour and 15 abstentions were accepted by amendment number 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Ministers, we're moving on to the amendment table. Article 1 of Amendment 1 to Article 2 of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58124	The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that there is neither legal nor sub-legal act which condition the performance of a particular activity exclusively as a craft and there is no legal basis for access in which a legal person, in the case of carrying out such an activity, would be subject to operating under the Law on crafts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58125	On behalf of the applicant for the change of the HDZ Club, honourable representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58126	Thank you very much. Mr. President, so the minister doesn't make any remarks again, I'll point out that these are the HoC amendments. Given that they have not come across the possibility of talking to the minister, and also that they are not sent through the board, I would like to say here that there would be no later comments, that those amendments to the HDZ Club would be submitted to them, so I say there would be no comments. However, this amendment is submitted for one simple reason, so the proposal for this law gives legal persons the status to deal with the craftsmanship to practically enter the craftsport. It is always in this country and during the former state and 23 years of this government it was clear what a craft is, and what a company is. However, it is very interesting that a craftsman who has a tradition of 160 years would carry out certain activities such as auto mechanics, cosmetologists, electricians, hairdressers and the like must have a person who did the job, who knows how to do it. But if a legal person goes to do the exact same job for her there is no obligation to hire such a person. Now you can think about what kind of unfair relationship craftsmen and legal persons are put into, I'm telling these more than these laws give legal persons the opportunity to gain the status of craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58127	Are you asking for a vote? ... Please state the amendment number 1 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 2. The Committee on Legislatives, Deputy Minister, shall, on Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58128	It is accepted because it is legally processed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58129	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 3 of the same committee to Article 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58130	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58131	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58132	So I don't have to explain it?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58133	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58134	I don't have to explain when it's accepted? There's no need.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58135	4 HDZ Representatives' Club on Article 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58136	It is not accepted because the Law on crafts as a law governing the status issue of carrying out activities in the organisational form of crafts cannot be spontaneously applied to legal persons. A trade law shall not impose an imperative obligation on a business entity which is not entered in the trade register.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58137	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58138	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. It's extremely strange that the Law on craftsmanship gives legal persons the status that they are craftsmen but at the same time when certain things are to be fulfilled by craftsmen then they are not given to them. Therefore, in accordance with Amendment 1 it is necessary to supplement Article 23(2). In such a way that legal persons engaged in the business of tied crafts must have an expert manager in their separate facilities as prescribed for craftsmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58139	A vote is required. Please state the amendment number four of the HDZ Representatives Clubs which the government does not accept. Who's in? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number five of the HNS Representatives Clubs... I have an indication that he's been withdrawn. We agree. Thank you very much. Amendment number 6 of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58140	It is not accepted because it means that a craftsman when he is present, when he is not present, must have the necessary education to carry out these activities because otherwise it is not possible to perform them. So this amendment is not accepted on that side.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58141	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58142	You see, colleagues and colleagues of this amendment speak clearly of all the absurdities of this law. On the one hand, we say that it allows family members not to sign up to be employed and that they can help a craftsman in a craftsmanship. On the other hand, we say if they're not professionally trained as a craftsman, they can't do that. And on the third hand, we let legal people do this job without highly trained people. Really craftsmen throw what is said on the floor and let them be trampled by who has the time and who arrives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58143	You're asking for a vote, Your Honor? Yes, thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. Six. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. Seven respected representatives of Nancy Tyrelli. Your Honors Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58144	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58145	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 8. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58146	It is not accepted because the craft has no legal personality and in accordance with the applicable rules of the financial sector and is carried out by a natural person who corresponds to the entire assets for obligations. And there's no such thing as a defined property craft. And according to the position and some previous positions of the Constitutional Court, it is not determined so that we do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58147	On behalf of the applicant's club, the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58148	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like my colleagues from the Department of Trade to take a look at the Income Tax Act and regulations, so you'll see that all craftsmen who run business books and calculate depreciation are obliged to keep a list of basic assets and a list of small inventory. As soon as something's bought and it's got tax treatment, it's considered the property of whoever's working with him. So it's incorrect what the minister says all the time that the craft doesn't have its own property. Another thing, if you in one part of your apartment want to engage in entrepreneurship, you must apply for a re-use of space to the competent authority in the city. It's only when you get a re-purpose of space and when you get minimum technical conditions that you can carry out your activity there. With the re-use of this space and everything you have invested, you are practically leading it into the inventory of the means of crafts, and it is not true that it is in the integral part of the residential project of craftsmen. Why? So if you look at the Act that approves the activity then you will see that no craftsman, no legal person can establish an activity that has not received a technical certificate for it. So, colleagues and colleagues, this is simply a lie that the minister is saying. And I think it would be a logical thing if legal persons were to make contracts guaranteeing certain assets then it would also be just that craftsmen with craftsmen who have guarantees for certain liabilities. And if they want to enter into a contract that is finally written, I think in Article 4 of this Article, paragraph 4, of this article, if they want to conclude a contract that they want to further strengthen their property with their own guarantee, then what the minister proposes cannot prevent from being charged and from doing so. Therefore, I see no reason why we are constantly running away from what is true, which is in the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia and again we push the craftsmen against the margins of legal persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58149	You're asking for a vote, of course. Please state the amendment No. 8. A Croatian Democratic Community representative's club that the government does not accept. Who's in? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Moving to Amendment No. Nine. The Legislative Committee. Dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58150	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58151	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. The 10th of the same board?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58152	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58153	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 11th of the same board?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58154	The same thing is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58155	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No. 12. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, respected ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58156	It is not accepted since we have so far had such a provision in the law that has been defined, where certain activities related to domestic work and all of this has been used by 1300, so it was not enough, 1300 people were not of sufficient interest. This way we'll make it a little more flexible, and that's why we didn't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58157	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58158	So, uh... [[Employee: Microphone Honorable Representative for the record.]] limit to the amount of income achieved as some kind of limit to which some household activity is, something, actually home work and some crafts simply don't decide. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since both craftsmanship and home labor are not in the VAT system, we create something that is uncompetitive and practically enables someone to do far more favourable things for a particular activity and we swear to the market economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58159	You're asking for a vote, Your Honor? Please state the amendment No. 12. [[Intruder Shucker: Yes.]] A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. The 13th Club of Representatives, the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58160	It's not accepted and the explanation is similar to that of the previous one. With that I would like to add that there is no unfair competition there since the government has raised the threshold for entering the VAT system to 230 thousand kuna, which means that tens of thousands of craftsmen will also be able to be out of the system and are outside of the VAT system and there is no unfair competition. And on the other hand, there is no unfair competition because that benefit will not be enjoyed without enjoying some special benefits used by anyone other than pensioners who are no longer bonds I would say paying a pension contribution. The person who works if he does his homework will pay taxes on that personal income he already has during the year and has no advantage over craftsmen. So we don't see any problem in defining things in the Law of Turning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58161	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58162	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In an explanation, the minister should have been given according to the previous amendment, not according to this, only so much to see how much he mixes the articles, but very interesting that someone is competitive to someone, someone pays only 15% or 20% of income taxes and plus taxes, and someone pays pension, health, all of these other contributions, pays income taxes and the rest, and now that all these contributions are summed up and compared to someone who pays income tax and then deadly coldly you say that their obligations are equal to society and that they are competitive, and the logical thing that the one who doesn't pay the contributions can be so priced and more competitive if he wants to provide some kind of service. Because look, they're not exactly at the annual level of small service, it's 10 average gross wages. Therefore, someone can make another salary decently for that, but at the same time, it also has the decency to destroy a craftsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58163	Are you asking for a vote? Please state the amendment number 13 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Please, who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 14 of the same club representing the respected minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58164	It is not accepted that the provisions of the Law on crafts in the field of education are aimed at termsological and logical alignment with the provisions of applicable rules in the field of education and education, primarily the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools and the Law on vocational education.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58165	On behalf of the Club, the applicant for the amendment is the Honorable Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58166	Well, just one sentence. This is definitely a confirmation that those who have proposed this law do not understand at all the philosophy of the crafts that lived in these areas for 160 years, past 4 countries, past various political arrangements and agreed economy, market economy and practically some semi-fed system, and someone now wants to change that philosophy of scientific assistants' education I don't know why. And I guess someone's general education is more important than if someone knows how to fix a stove, a water heater, or something like that, or shoes, it's probably more important to someone. But I'm saying it's a philosophy and this is just another confirmation that someone wants to push a turn down the hill from which no one will ever rip it out again. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58167	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number 14 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment number 15 of the same club representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58168	It is not accepted and the explanation is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58169	Thank you very much. The obvious...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58170	Since no previous amendment has been accepted, there is no need.../The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58171	He's retreating. Amendment number 15 withdrawn. Thank you very much. Amendment number 16 of the same club representing the respected minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58172	It is not accepted because membership in the Croatian Chamber of crafts is established on the basis of enrolment in the Rotary Register, not on the basis of enrolment in the records of natural persons performing domestic work or secondary occupation. Physical persons, companies and other legal persons may be voluntary members of the Croatian Chamber of crafts based on paragraph 5 of this Article.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58173	On behalf of the applicant of the amendment...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58174	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58175	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number 16 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing that he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 17 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58176	It is not accepted because the Croatian Chamber of crafts is not a budgetary user and there is no need to submit the report to the Croatian Parliament, and the same conclusion stems from the debate in the first reading of the Law on Trade in the Croatian Parliament, especially by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. ... That's what you asked in your first reading so it wouldn't be in the law. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58177	An indication of the applicant for a respected representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58178	So I will say openly here, given the lunches that the minister brought to the account of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, and since these statements hurt tens of thousands of Croatian craftsmen, the Croatian craftsmen began to send e-mails to the HDZ Club to support them in the fact that the report on the work of the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen until 30.9. debate in the Croatian Parliament for the simple reason that honest and honest people who do their jobs and craftsmen who have traditions through 5-6 generations in certain families and no one is in the interest of throwing themselves at their grandfathers, great-grandfathers who have been engaged and those colleagues and colleagues are cordially asking you to support this amendment for us to work in the Chamber of crafts, and later to support you on other amendments, we discuss in this high house and to take off those ministers who are on board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58179	You're asking for a vote on Amendment 17? Please state the amendment number 17 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 18 of the same club representing the respected minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58180	It's unacceptable. A single rate of 2% of the basic income deduction has been defined and there is the possibility of Croatia's crafts chamber income and through the exercise of public authority and through voluntary contributions so that we think that it is possible for the chamber to transform and function the most normal way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58181	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58182	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In the first draft of the law, the minister insisted that the report be submitted, the minister insisted on how much membership they will be, and the minister insisted that all acts are practically confirmed by the ministry and therefore the craftsmen agree to cut their membership fees, but that they are asking for a transition and that, in the first round, so to say, this membership is reduced by 3% because as much as we now talk about that there are a lot of employees, colleagues and colleagues in the chamber, if we reduce the contribution from 4% to 2%, there are a lot of mayors and mayors, three or four people who work in the Velika Chamber of Commerce will be able to pay just one, two will end up on the stock market, and Velika Gorica can only paint on any city, whether there are one, five or six or six or more of them in Zagreb. So the craftsmen's association prayed that if these 3% can be brought to some period, to be found, that no one can adapt within a month, to find some sort of transitional solution and then let's say after a year or two to reach a rate of 2%. It is therefore proposed that this amendment contribute to this craftsman's contribution to the Chamber of crafts be 3%. Well, I sincerely hope colleagues and colleagues especially those who are mayors and mayors will... a craftsman who fills their budgets with a very generously raised hand for this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58183	Are you asking for a vote? I'd like to make a statement on Amendment 18. [[Intruder Shucker: Yes.]] A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 19. Legislative Committee, Honored Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58184	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58185	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 20. The HDZ counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58186	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 20. The HDZ counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58187	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58188	Well, it's traditional that master's exams took place in the crafts chamber. It's traditional. Therefore, I really see no reason why you did not accept this amendment, but this best says the relationship, the personal relationship of the minister not politics, but the personal attitude of the minister towards Croatian craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58189	No, no. You didn't hear. With the second amendment, we brought it together in government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58190	Are you asking for a vote on the amendment? Here you go. Please. You're looking for a vote. I ask you to come forward with an amendment number 20. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 21. The Committee on the Legislatives of the Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58191	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58192	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 22. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58193	It is not accepted because, as I said, the provisions of the law are harmonised and in line with the Ministry of Science based on which it is not possible to return the assistant exam to the chamber's jurisdiction in this way and there is no need to leave it in force.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58194	An indication of the applicant for a respected representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58195	Now, look at your colleagues and colleagues, with this amendment, you're simply looking for the possibility that those who are for master, for the status of assistants. According to the regulation that they went into education to complete education under that same regulation and to keep these rules in force until they complete their education. But what's going on? The minister's half-school act says it won't be like this because it's my decision. And if you raise your hand, you will give him the right to change the rules of the game in the middle of education.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58196	Are you asking for a vote? Please state the amendment number 22. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Please, who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 23 of the same club of representatives. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58197	The explanation is similar. So there's no need to stay in force.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58198	Do you accept it or do you not accept it?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58199	I'm sorry. I don't accept. So there's no need to leave it in the hands of these rules. Just to say that our vocational schools and our students who pass exams, the final exams in vocational schools are all, almost everyone who went out has always passed the assistant exams and doesn't need children on two sides to send for something that can be solved in vocational schools. And that was the basis why we went to that shape. And I think eventually the students will be happy with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58200	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58201	I would like to refer my colleague Marasa, the minister to the Bavarian Chamber of craftsmen, to see how a country far more developed than we are is related to craftsmen, as it relates to the taking of basic exams and how it relates after taking master exams. And when you see craft workshops competing there, you have master exams worth 100, 150000 euros. Why? Because the master, the craftsman's workshop simply wants to point out, is advertised because the work remains as a permanent exhibit and exhibit in the Chamber of crafts. Whether we aim to go to it or our goal is definitely and you will see it later in the next amendment to close all craftsmen's homes that we have at the moment so that there will be no trace of the entrepreneurial activity and innovation of Croatian craftsmen, because you will not be able to see any work for the master's exam because there will simply be no work here at the Association of craftsmen, nor what the assistants have done but will be somewhere in some schools. And unfortunately, there's too much of it in one school. That's what gets lost. Why tear down a tradition that has nothing negative, it only has a positive one. Well, we can't say that we are against the trade tradition of the Republic of Croatia. But I'm saying, go to the Chamber of crafts in Munich, Bavaria, and you'll see how the state treats its craftsmen. You just need to see it because this is a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58202	You're asking for a vote from a respected colleague? Please state the amendment number 23. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 24 of the same club as the minister's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58203	It is not accepted, as the Association of craftsmen may make up for part of the funds to repay loans from a voluntary chamber contribution, as well as part of its own income. It is also possible to reprogram the financial liabilities on loans as a rule for business premises, and the same property can be put into service by renting and the like.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58204	On behalf of the applicant's club, the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58205	Mr. President and colleagues and colleagues. Thus, in some past times, the Chamber of craftsmen and the Association of craftsmen were based on their financial plans, not on financial budgets, as the minister wrote in the law, creating some obligations in the future, editing spaces or even some who did not have enough funds in their congregations to pay for an increased chamber contribution for the next 4, 5 or 10 years in order to arrange their home. And here, for example, in the vicinity of Zagreb, you have not one such example in the towns of Zagreb County, that the craftsmen have voted for a larger detachment to arrange their own home. And now look, we're fucking them in half, say, time to pay back the loan. Now ask yourself a question. Could the bank that granted the loan sue the one who proposed a bill like this, why? because it violates the rules and does not ensure the return of credit, rules and conditions under which the credit is given, because the credit is given according to these income data that are planned on the basis of the membership fee. Someone doesn't cut the membership fee by 5 or 10% but cut it in half and question it in general that these craftsmen can exist, that they can exist. So not only are we going to throw hundreds of people on the street because they won't have as soon as they fund it, but we're going to be in a position that the craftsmen's associations won't be able to repay the loan. My colleagues and colleagues, we have a conscience. I keep thinking this has nothing to do with politics or anything. This is life. We have just voted in favour of helping Croatian citizens who have taken up credit in Swiss. Now look at how we treat Croatian craftsmen. Don't they have the same right to protect them, but we just knowingly throw them in that they won't be able to repay the loan? I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58206	Please state the amendment number 24 of the HDZ Representatives Clubs which the government does not accept. Who's in? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 25 to the Legislative Committee, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58207	He's taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58208	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. And last amendment number 26 of the HDZ reps.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58209	It is not accepted because there is no need to delay the effect of the Law on crafts, because the provisions of the law do not have a direct effect on the structure of the HOK because it is defined by the Statute of the Croatian Chamber of crafts. The Law on crafts does not define either the number of craftsmen's associations or the regional craft chambers. The Ministry considers it possible, i.e. the Government, that it is possible to align acts on material financial operations of the single system of financing the income and contribution structure until the application of the provisions of the Chamber Contribution Act is started. For the association of craftsmen of the regional chamber and of the Croatian Chamber of crafts exclusively within the jurisdiction of the HOK Assembly and its structure of the statutes and regulations and other acts, the Croatian Chamber of crafts will comply with the law within 6 months of entry into force. And what's important is to say. In the vicinity of Zagreb there are no such credit obligations for the property which is, it is all a few space in all of Croatia, which can also be financed from a voluntary part of the membership by craftsmen. No one prevents the craftsmen from deciding that we want such spaces to continue to have and finance, and the simple association of craftsmen can request a voluntary contribution from their members and let them continue to finance in the way they have financed so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58210	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58211	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In view of these amendments, you have seen how drastically the receipts and rights of Croatian craftsmen have been cut and how their financial commitment has been brought into a very difficult situation because of their lack of consideration. I think on these drastic changes would be logical to get some time period to apply this law. 'Cause look, it's safe that the craftsman's association can't pay anymore, here I am talking about my Great Gorica, can't pay three employees. They simply need to reorient that from 1.1. there will be only one employee who will be doing a job that has done three people so far and must see how these two people who are excess and simply have no place to pay. And who will. Do you think that because we passed this law, we will reduce the needs of craftsmen to provide them with certain services? My colleagues and colleagues have disappeared from the craftsmen's associations, and frankly speaking with this law, the question is how we're going to be left with the craftsmen's association. Maybe it'll all come down to three, four associations, and then who... At the same time, we are full of mouths to talk about how entrepreneurship should be encouraged, how entrepreneurship should be given space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleagues and colleagues from the famous... The theory of economics, craftsmen, take that triangle as important and without craftsmen and small medium-sized entrepreneurs there is no economic benefit of any country and we are definitely cutting hands and feet off those who are supposed to be this economic grace. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: select chamber craftsmen?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-20-0.u58212	Please state the amendment number 26 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Please, who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We've exhausted the plate. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I would like to ask the result that most 74 votes in favour, 18 votes against, and 2 abstentions have been passed by the Law on Turning in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. Good morning, respected fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament, respected fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament. We continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. On the established agenda, it is now up to the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on value added tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 514; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Reports from these committees of working bodies of the Croatian Parliament were received at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Finance Slavko Linic. Here you go, dear Minister.
