ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31960	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, before you there is a final proposal of the Law on the right to access information, a law that in two readings in this High House, and beyond it has indeed experienced a fruitful, long, quality debate and we seem to be bringing it to an end today. One very good project we bring to a normative end, one project that will need to be fully brought to life then in public. It is certainly also the result of long-term open debates not only professional but also political, but what is very important to the general public. It is of its own nature, it seems to me, and it seems to us to those who have been working on its resuscitation and achievement in the opening and democratisation of this area in Croatian society in the last ten years. We know that the law of 2003 came into force. What's his goal? Its aim is to enable and ensure the affirmation of citizens through a clearly regulated legal instrument by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia of Croatia of the right to access information owned by public authorities. So it has a very high goal. It also has a second secondary objective – to make public authorities more open and more responsible in legislation, legally insist in an open and then good government. And the third from the citizen's stand is to revive their postulate on the right to good administration, to good authority. This constitutional right is also guaranteed through Article 38(4). The Constitution and citizens, above all, to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The content of the law is defined primarily through the Constitution itself, through the provision of Article 38(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. One strong, constitutional guarantee of availability of information to citizens. Secondly, it is also defined through the kind of Europeanisation of Croatian solutions, the installation of good practice. What is good in most EU countries, a kind of democratic administrative standard is also introduced into Croatian legislation. It complements, Europeanisation is also under way in concrete solutions, solutions supplementing the existing law and working out the European Parliament and Council Directive of 17 November 2003 on the reuse of public sector information. It seems irrelevant, but you will see that it is actually an important directive that is good and that really needs to be implemented in Croatian legislation. And they link what is some kind of political action, the government's Action Plan of the Republic of Croatia's Open Authority Partnership with legitimate expectations of citizens. That's exactly what the content of that law was mirrored. And the specific content itself can be summed up as soon as possible in several postulates, several solutions. First of all, the bodies of the public authorities and their obligations are clearly defined in the process of informing citizens, informing the public. Here on the legislative framework, the legislative instrumentation is actually moving towards, developing the concept of proactive public authority, pro-active administration. It's not the administration that's waiting, it's the administration that's really the real service, the one that's the service of the citizens. This seems to be through a very specific way in a very specific way by spreading mandatory information that public authorities are obliged to give on their websites or by other means to make available to the public. In this sense, the law has given very comprehensive precise solutions and has complemented the solutions that have been worth since 2003 and have been nivelled in later years. What is equally important and also seems to be an important step is to publish documents for public consultation. In a two-way process, the administration and the public authorities shall exchange everything they create with those to which these documents will apply. What is great with the new law and what has crystallised the debate in the Croatian Parliament as well as the debate outside the Croatian Parliament and where a high degree of consent has almost been reached, which is the establishment of a new independent body of the Commissioner for Information. This is about a kind of authority of the Croatian Parliament. One amendment that the Government will offer, and has been crystallised through the discussion of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the expert, the academic public has proposed this solution that would bring the independence of the Commissioners, its specificity of one guarantee to implement this law even more clearly in line with the implementation of this law. In the Commissioner himself, the institution that is being elaborated very carefully in this law and very closely elaborated on its choice, its position, and seen what is very important, its independence from the executive body, complete independence from the executive authority, which has not yet been sufficiently guaranteed by any solution. It also seems to us that through a normative solution of reputation and authority, but also the powers of Commissioners can be guaranteed are a very strong assumption of the good implementation of this law. What are his strong powers, he is, above all, an appeal body, a strong second-degree body compared to all bodies of public authorities without exception. He has a role that sometimes looks minor, but it's actually very important when you don't, when an institution starts to develop and it's an advisory role, harmonisation of practices, instruction of those who will apply this law. He has a supervisory role, which is a big new and inspection role that sometimes causes and which in our relatively unregulated system of public administration causes a small, small odysum, but it is also a powerful instrument in his hands and we think that this novelty, in fact, gives him a stronger position. He has criminal, misdemeanor powers, he reports to the Croatian Parliament on everything he has seen, reports annually on what he has seen right to access, in the realization of this right. What's most important is that he settles the metrics. The Commissioner is not exclusively in the review of the Commissioners in the appeal procedure that regardless of whether the information he wants or not to give is classified or marked by the degree of secrecy or the high degree of secrecy, it is the Commissioner who will ultimately, to the extent that he will judge and say, is here about secrecy, this is not about secrecy, this information must or does not have to be made available to the public. It's that solution that's embedded between the two readings that gives him the most powerful powers I deeply believe in. What I also said, the institute of re-use of information is not exactly some institute which, in public very much, I would say to myself lightly, well-observed and very observant, but in any case it affirms the right of a natural and legal person to use information from the public authority and shows that the information is not solely property or the right of the public authority, but the good that should serve the interests of everyone, means, like, information as added value. And somewhere towards the end. What is the value of this law, above all the value of this law, of this final proposal is that access to information, the right to access information, determines as a rule, as a constitutional rule and legislative rule, strongly confirms it. And data from the highest level of secrecy can be subject to review by the commissioners, that means there is no untouchable. The full restrictions are an exception, an exception already prescribed in the principle, general norms of this law, which refer to the security-intelligence system and refer to classified data from international organisations and other countries. This is the only real exception to the application of this law, and the restrictions and it is important to point out in this House, can be determined by no more general act than by law alone, but such restrictions can also be subject to such information as has been established by law that the classification can also be subject to review by the Commissioners. Finally, the importance of the law is to implement into the life of the constitutional principle. The difficult task of the legislator will be even more difficult for public authorities bodies, but it will indeed be an indicator of the systematic democratisation of Croatian society through the opening of the bodies of public authorities, responsible authorities and authorities, and responsible administrations. And with that, it still seems the most important fulfillment of the legitimate expectations of citizens to have good bodies, responsible bodies, that they have bodies in place. Law enforcement won't be easy, law enforcement is actually a normal addition to this normative framework, law enforcement will be as strong as this high House, be as good as this high House with full responsibility chooses a prominent person, professional person, person commissioner. It is, he is a strong guarantee, a strong guarantee of the implementation of this law. The second part is, in the implementation of this law, certainly lies on great responsibility, more responsibility than it is now for all public authorities and it will require something else, while at the level of the central, central bodies it will be easier to do so at the level of local authorities, it will not be so easy to implement this law and it is the promoter aware. As a result, it will be joined and it has been promised between two readings and wide education, education through the Ministry of Administration, public school for public administration, education for the implementation of enforcement officers. Here are the dynamics of making and discussing between the two readings and committees, which pointed to a high degree of acceptance, a high degree of consensus on the fundamental solution of this law, and the proposer, among other things in both readings, accepted a series of remarks coming from the MPs and from the parliamentary committees. It seems to us that these reasons, which have been presented for, need what, that there is no need for these reasons, do not support this proposal in the broadest degree of consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31961	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to take part in and present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. There's a replica to the deputy minister's presentation. Dear Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31962	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's Mr. Piculjan with his associates, this law might be good with this definition of commissioners if the commissioner were elected by the two-thirds majority in the Croatian Parliament. Since he is chosen by the majority he currently has in the Kukurik coalition, then we can suspect that this commissioner will be impartial, objective, and will work in the interest of informing the Croatian public. Although it is elected by the Croatian Parliament could be added here if we would like and would like it to be a real person who will be in one high agreement in this Croatian House and a ban and who will share for all equally everyone the same pucks who will not work their legal tasks towards the Croatian public, according to the institutions, according to all those who want information, I think it would be good to put a two-thirds majority, agree among the breaks what the Commissioner for Information is, I would better place the Commissioner for Access to Information, this would be more appropriate terms in this seventh chapter where he is defined in Articles 35 and 36 as being elected. So here's an observation that certainly raises doubts that he will be clear, transparent, objective to all the tasks that will be ahead of him, given that he is chosen by the majority who in the House makes up the position he chooses and the Government, who has left the government's list, so there are many clearer obstacles that cause him to suspect that it will be a transparent, independent body in accessing information.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31963	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is next to the club of representatives of the Croatian Labourers, the respected representative Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31964	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with Associates. Although this seems like a week of good law, I'm not as thrilled as Mr. Piculjan is and I'll tell you why. Here's what I'm about to start with what he said somewhere at the end. He said one good thing that I fully agree with that information is public good. The information should be publicly sound. The law says the information is publicly good. However, it is known what the authorities do with public goods. They're privatizing them. So that's how the information is privatized. Everything you said, Mr. Piculjan, public consultation, available information especially in local self-government units, it's all a dead letter on paper so far. From now on, whether it's gonna be like that or not. If the situation is to be improved, it should be optimistic that information will be available to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia after we have introduced a new institute, it will show time. You said the Commissioner would rule, say what is secret, which is not secret, which should be made available to the public, which should not be made available to the public. We've actually known that by now. However, the problem in Croatia is, let's say yesterday, we talked about it last night, discussed several excellent laws in the area of justice and we can be proud of. But the problem is in practice, the problem is that these laws are not respected, the problem is that judges themselves do not respect what the laws say. That's the biggest problem. And the problem is that so far Croatian politicians have experienced power. First of all, a good part of Croatian politicians do not mean that not all authorities see it as an activity that must be covered by secrecy, it must have some nettle because it is then stronger. Government at all levels from the local committee to the square of St. Mark considers himself mostly untouchable or even worse superior. Politicians are servants of the people, you know that well when you're not in the company. After the election, most of their moves especially those in which there were no words in the electoral company want to hide the public eye. The government mostly works on that principle. There's a film that also continues, the virtues of public vice secrets. The most visible becomes power, the power of the government can be revealed at every step, in all the state and offices of local self-government. And also Tacitus, a Roman historian, and first of all, the speaker said nearly two thousand years ago, we can never have a firm confidence in the power of too much authority. Although it is the best rule in which man must obey only laws. Croatian powermakers from municipal to upper city laws try to bypass, skip and see the world around them with heights. Almost all the reports of the Assembly from those audits to those of the ombudsmans are the beatings and violations of the law, the collection of willfulness and contempt to the public. The public, and the public who has the right to know and on the basis of what he can decide because it is much easier to decide when it is known. What happens to local and national political powers after, for example, they refuse to provide information that must in itself be public. Is there a fine in Prague that the entire public heard about when the highest rank official or the lowest rank gave no information to any citizen, any institution, anything happened to the journalist. For the third or fourth time as chairman of the Information Committee, I have been asking two former VDs of Croatian Radio Television Directors and now also the head director and president of the Croatian Supervisory Board for the signature of HRT workers who have the so-called contract annex. He's been on the stand before, and now he's deafening to it. Although there were several almost clubs here and there in the Parliament, they asked for this information to be public. What happened? And despite interventions, applications, written requests, no one from Prisavia sends anything. We'll see what the commissioner does about it. Normally, the public wonders if we should continue to endure it and how long do we suffer it? How long does such a attitude towards the public tolerate a citizen? The law on the right to access information is one of the laws to which the vast majority of local sheriffs, so to speak, should be called even though the mayors are often angry that it does not mean that all mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, local sheriffs, are not quite certain. State officials who are also sheriffs of their offices, ministers and then the president of the current and current authorities are experiencing a disturbance in their sacred service to themselves. He often says I'll give them information. I don't care about the law, what can I do? Nothing. Practice shows the authorities no matter what level nothing can. What the public has to know is how to spend taxpayers' money, how much the commissioners spend past pay, who they hire, how much they spend on jobs, how much they spend on the team. Are those excessive grades? No, they're not. And the State's audit year after year sees the same problems. From year to year here in the Parliament, we are talking about how the majority of the ministries have been a mess. And what happened? When was any minister, the prime minister responsible for that? when was anyone removed because the audit gave a negative opinion? Never anyone. This is a good law, but he's got a right to doubt it, a dead letter on paper until we start following those laws ourselves. The right to information is one of the fundamental, human, civil rights. Without information, we often make wrong decisions or cannot do the desired work, we cannot do even our duty without the right information, which is a civic duty, we cannot choose well if we do not have all the information. Right now, the government has to let the citizens know. And they need to know how they can function, live a better life, decide. That is why this law is relatively new in Croatian and even in European legislation. Without the Law on the right to access information, neither states nor society can be arranged, nor can it strive for democracy. The law on the right to access information is also anti-corruption law. This law regulates the right to access information. This law prescribes principles that pave the way for a more orderly democratic society. This law should contain social blindness. Finally, by this law or by means of more precise application of this law, we will make life easier for the citizens. The most significant newspaper of the law is the introduction of a Commissioner for Information, an independent body responsible for the protection of the right to access information. So far, the right to access information has protected us all know that the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. Although it is elected by the Croatian Parliament, the Commissioner should be independent and independent of the executive authority, unless the Commissioner is as often happens by party obedience. And that he would not be partyly obedient so that he would not obey the government absolutely certainly that the commissioner should be elected here in the Assembly with a two-thirds majority. The Commissioner should serve the citizens of Croatia and must not be subdued by the definition that this government often speaks, which is what we have taken responsibility for on our backs. The Commissioner is not their clerk. The law will remain a dead letter on paper if the information commissioner is not provided with human and material conditions. In view of the overall nature of the activities of the Personal Data Protection Agency which has been badly teamed up as well, it seems almost suicide mission to commit the Agency to performing administrative technical tasks for the purposes of the Commissioner’s Office, as prescribed in Article 39. And not only from the humane organisational aspect, but also from the status aspect. The law regulates the rights of citizens, obligations and duties of commissioners, however, it is as it was written. So just give the Information Committee, and I know that more amendments have been submitted to the purpose of applying this law in reality. Because it is certain that a Commissioner who has no tools, whose only tool this law will not be able to carry out his duty well. First of all, the Commissioner has no space, no technical equipment, here it is predicted to be used or transferred to some parts, some technology to the Commissioner, which is impossible for practical reasons why I will not be lengthened and bothered by the public. Anyway, this is what I think is a different version of the law, that next time we discuss the law, I don't mean this law, but another law that we're going to pass for sure. It's a step forward. As I just said at the beginning of the week of good laws, however, we need to have a year or years of good practice and we need to do everything in order to really bring this law back to life in practice because if we don't do it we haven't done a good job. Once again, we should agree here in the Croatian Parliament that the Commissioner for Information is choosing with a two-thirds majority. If that is not decided, we will get another official who will serve the authorities today to the Kukurik coalition and tomorrow to another government. If she won't be more democratic then we'll certainly take two steps back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31965	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go to the replicas. The first replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31966	And here's an esteemed colleague, although you've made up your mind afterwards about municipal, city, upper city, county, regional sheriffs, I don't think we should use such names, especially not universally to look at all those who act in government and at the lowest level, so to municipalities, cities, counties, since we're all really different, regardless of what we've come from Adam and Eve or by that Darwin theory. There are also those in politics who do not adhere to the law, but there are also those who adhere to the law and who allow citizens exactly the right to access information, as well as work based on the public of work. The purchases are solved through public procurement, the team does not spend on certain banquets, households, but above all, and part of a team like me. I used to finance a guide dog for a blind person. And I hope that if you get the trust of the citizens of the City of Zagreb that you will not then be the upper city sheriff but that you will serve the citizens and that you will spend the team in the same way, and I responsibly argue that this law can indeed remain a dead letter on paper unless those involved do not implement it, but the last filter that will determine it is themselves citizens who will trust someone for the past work or for what he promises in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31967	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31968	Dear Mr. Winkovic, when you picked up your replica, I knew what you were going to replicate. Many are sheriffs, but most did not comply with the law, most local officials were only a few local units praised in the report by both GONG and other organisations,... which served citizens appropriately, when we talk about the Law on Access to Information. So I am speaking on the basis of the facts, these facts say that the mayors, mayors and mayors are hiding information from the citizens, which is certainly not according to the law, absolutely certain that they are not doing their duty then. It's not just a team, citizens don't even care how much information you spend on the team or how much money you pay. Citizens need other information to make life easier, to get some permits out, to be able to live more normally, and to ultimately decide who to vote on in the local elections. The government of the local government has been acting against the law so far, and that's why I called, and I said not all of them, there are two or three units of local self-government that have been praised, I think it's about Rijeka, that it's about Čakovec, Varazdin, I don't know by heart, for the last time in my first reading I was just talking about these local units that are a model of even some ministries and state authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31969	Thank you very much. A new replica and respected representative of the Sunana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31970	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Vuksic, I thought of a different way of replicating you, but you mentioned the town of Čakovec, so I'll start with that. So for two years now, the town of Čakovec has been given a conditional opinion of the State Audit, nothing happens and nothing is done and nobody reacts. Similarly, according to the Law on the right to access information, it is impossible to obtain information in the town of Čakovec or the height of the salary, for example, of the mayor of SDP. The SDP authority is systematically deafened to such requests and queries. But something else is disputed for me here, we didn't get an answer to the question why would the Commissioner, who would have his office under the law, have his own professional service and set up internal establishment units for certain areas of work, we don't know how many there will be, how many new people there will be. Why would the commissioner better perform his duty than the Personal Data Protection Agency that has done so so far? The answer to that question has not yet been received. Likewise, why the law immediately states that the Commissioner has the right to pay the salary of the vice president of the working bodies in the Croatian Parliament. If we're cheating on someone, let's make a big pay, come in, it'll be a good job, and why it refuses to choose that person over and over and over again for the 2/3 majority. That's what we talked about on behalf of the HDZ Club and in our first reading. Of course, this law is a powerful anti-corruption tool, an anti-corruption tool, but what the law does not, or a resolute ministry, is that the law did not make available to citizens what Transparency International's latest research tells, where only 4.7% of respondents know that such a law must be met by local and regional authorities, and over 50% of them do not even know that this law exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31971	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31972	Dear fellow Glavak, you see even Chakovec is no longer what he used to be, so they no longer act in accordance with the law there either. That's exactly what I was talking about. A conditional opinion when it gets a unit of local self-government or any ministry does not mean anything. It doesn't mean anything, it's a dead letter on paper. What we're talking about, we're making good laws, and I don't know why the Croatian Parliament has such a low score, even lower than the executive authority which should be vice versa, but well, we're probably carrying a burden on our backs justifiably. You asked why the commissioner would do better than the agency does now. A series of reasons why the Commissioner, his independence and separation exactly even I think that sometimes the agency is alone in conflict of interest, it's a very clear situation for me, and I advocate it for the Commissioner, for the service, more separately than it's prescribed here by law. So one special body that works with the agency. However, what you have warned of two-thirds if we do not agree here, and it seems that we will not agree because we have not agreed on anything when it comes to voting on some institutions or representatives of institutions that serve means the Croatian public, and that is also the Commissioner for Information, then it will be questionable and effective for his office because it depends only on the will of a political option which is certainly not good but in the beginning, to the very beginning, no matter who we choose to make it impossible for the Commissioner to do his job bravely.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31973	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31974	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleague Vuksic, you stated in your debate that you tried to find out some information several times, so you listed HTV and some contract annexes, etc. You are the chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Recently, Vice-President Stazic cried out to the director of Croatian television asking him for salaries paid by journalists and HTV employees. You're right to raise your doubts. The theory is great how it works in practice. Here, so I'm going to ask you through my replica one question of an ordinary citizen who wants to know the same information. He can address you, he can address the Vice-President of the Parliament and he can address the basis of this law as the Commissioner for Information. Which one of you can provide such information and which one of you will receive it first? It may be a banal but very important question and it concerns this law. Because practice should then be enforceable under a law like this. Will this Commissioner be the first to receive, or will you, as chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31975	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31976	Dear colleague Boric yes, it's actually a prize game who will sooner? No one will. If the HRT is deafened at the request of both the Croatian Parliament Vice-President and the President of the Information Committee because the Committee has reached that conclusion that we should receive information, if the HRT Director-General has promised to give such information, if this is the case, I do not remember whether or not the chairman of the Supervisory Board was present here in the debate, whether when we discussed the Statute of the HRT he actually heard the demands not to cry for parliamentary representatives, but until today nothing happened in Prisavil. Why? Well, because probably those who asked said let them moan, you don't have to give anything. There's 200, 300 people have an annex contract, secrets are wages, there's a hack of money still looking. No one respects this institution because we make good laws and then they don't follow themselves. So there should be sanctions against deaf people. ... Yeah, and here's Kai's pathetic lawsuit. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31977	Thank you very much. Don't disturb your colleagues, let's be correct. Next replica and respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31978	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Vuksic, I will replicate very similarly as my colleague Vinkovic, clearly not from some Malia or in order to challenge certain things you said in your presentation. I agree with some, and I personally advocate that this law is being implemented in a way that all those people who have powers and use it to prevent access to information from being punished and being punished. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[/Intruder Leko: Dear Representative Baranovic turns to the microphone, we will not record your speech. Be nice.]] It is not good to generalise things and to put all people in the same context, and that may sometimes happen by accident, but it has become a general practice in Croatian politics and I appeal not only to you but also to other colleagues and colleagues in Croatian politics to stop doing a very bad thing primarily to Croatian society, the system of governance of Croatian society, and then finally to ourselves. Because there are a whole series of people who are aware of the fact that haughtiness is the greatest sin, who are competent in the conduct of their duties and who adhere to the law. If we continue to fall into this trap of generalizing things and putting all people who are professionally involved in politics, then we'll create a dogma that we're all bad guys. We will send a message to the citizens that they have no hope, that there is no possibility of responsible, decent and successful authorities. What are we doing? That's not a good message. And finally, when that message prevails, then the criteria stop working and there's no contrast. Then you no longer see negative versus positive. I really appeal to you, as well as to all other colleagues, that this practice at least in this High House of Croatian Politics, the highest level of responsibility should therefore be as responsible people to leave and to begin to clearly differentiate things, the bad guys from the bad guys, and the positive processes from the negative processes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31979	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31980	I didn't generalize with my esteemed colleague Baranovic, I said most of them, I said they weren't all, and most of them are boastful as you said. The greatest sin is haughtiness, you said it to the authorities. Read the report on how many units of local self-government have fulfilled their obligations under the current law, most are not just two three local units highlighted as a model. Why did I use the U.S. Marshals' dictionary, because the sheriffs, in the wild west, only obeyed their law, not the law of the state, not the laws prescribed by the community. If someone doesn't respect the law of the Republic of Croatia, and yesterday we said in a debate that even the judges who were supposed to show the public the property card, they didn't follow that law. Then it's something bad about society. I'm not saying that everyone, the last time I counted you, so this time I didn't want to count it, I counted exactly which local units of local self-government did their homework, which they didn't do. In fact, I have made it easier to count those who have completed their duties under this law. I was just talking about this law, not other laws. I apologize to those who have found themselves offended, and they have fulfilled these tasks under this law and I have no intention, for sure there are also excellent mayors, mayors, deputy mayors, mayors, but most of them are not, I repeat, most of them have failed to fulfil their obligations under the Laws of Access to Information.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31981	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Zvonko Milas. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31982	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with a large part of your debate, especially with my colleague Vukšić, that the right to access information is a fundamental human right and that is why it all comes out. However, I am not sure of the enforceability of this law, so all that is written. The Commissioner's description describes it as about the person who teaches or how we like to say it is an educator, who judges, who decides, who controls, I'm not sure how it will all be concentrated in one person, how it will work. So his independence, let's say by the decision that you said should be a two-thirds choice, I agree with that, then she would be unquestionable. However, the question of his office's independence is raised, because one man himself cannot do it. What about those who will be an integral part, so the Commissioner's office. Who will vouch for their independence and how it will all work. Furthermore, the difference, which is why the Agency for the Protection of the Rights of Access to Information, i.e. for the protection of personal data, is not good, which is why we do not have much experience, which is why it would be good. I have, for example, the experience of HRT Commissioners, he should be the link between public service and the public. So two years ago, if I'm not wrong with the law, it's confirmed in the new law. I have no idea how it works, nor did we ever get a report, as far as I remember in this house about work at all, whether there's this relationship, whether that public that makes all of this exist, eventually, and that commissioner, is it even working. And if it's not the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data Good, then I ask one question about how good it was the moment she approved, say, the right to access data release in the Defence Register, which is, in the opinion of many people, a violation of the constitutional right to the protection of personal data.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31983	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31984	Dear colleague Milos, I will use the words of Mr. Kregar on the Committee on Information and Animal Protection and Hunting Society, but it is a drastic difference. Let's say there's a comparison between the agency and the commissioner. But what you said, you mentioned the most important thing that we're in, I've spoken a little bit and there's been a little talk, but I hope there's going to be more talk, and that's education. It's exactly the data that Mr. Piculjan is or I don't know who's been saying here that very few people know what he's actually allowed to do, which is made possible by this law. The first thing that needs to be done by both the agency and the commissioner should educate the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are their rights. I think that last year the agency has already tried, however not well enough and again I appeal to HRT which is a job to serve the public, not to deal with commercial programs, but to serve the public and to be just the promoter of such actions as should be carried out, and one will certainly be Commissioner and agency that citizens know what they can do, what tools they have to make life easier. And that's the most important job of the Commissioner. However, if you had noticed the most important thing, which is the Commissioner should be elected here in the Croatian Parliament by two-thirds of the majority, then you would certainly have one of the most important guarantees that this commissioner will be doing a job for the benefit of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not just the parties in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31985	New replica and respected representative Anna Lovrin. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31986	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Vuksic is true for the sake of information, perhaps it would be really political for the commissioner to choose the two-thirds majority here in the Croatian Parliament, but that would be counter-constitutional. So if you thought so politically then when they were, you proposed amendments to the Constitution recently, you should have suggested that too. Namely, this will be answered by the Government now and ruling, although in the last term they have also proposed that some decisions be made by a two-thirds majority, and even then they were anti-constitutional and did not propose to amend the Constitution. Thus, the Constitution clearly states that the Croatian Parliament makes decisions by majority of votes if the majority is present at the session, unless the Constitution sets out otherwise and the tax system states what was being made, the transition of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the amendment of the Constitution, I do not know any international agreements transposing certain powers of the constitutional etc. It's right in the National Minority Rights Act, that's exactly what's listed. In these constitutional frameworks, it might be a good outcome, let's say, that the commissioner is from the ranks of the opposition and that he oversees power. And something else might be good, and it's a good practice of Parliament unlike the bad one when we choose or choose a lawyer or when we choose the Committee of Conflict of Interest, when it could come to that two-thirds or maybe full consensus. If the committees in the proposal were indeed to discuss candidates and not to vote in secret without any debate and when, apart from the candidates' hearing afterwards, they would not discuss and seek to reach a consensus. So once a good parliamentary practice might also occur in the context of these constitutional changes, so informally but cannot require a two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31987	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31988	Of course, dear colleague Lovrin, you're right. But you're only formally right. You just said one sentence when HDZ was in power you chose the director of HRT by consensus or two-thirds majority and more than two-thirds majority. I didn't mean to formalize this, I didn't mean to ask for a change of constitution for it. However, representatives' clubs could agree on some of the principles of work. I don't think that would be agreeable to this violation of the Constitution if it agreed that all clubs would be selected by the Commissioner and your club also asked for the director of the HRT to be elected in the same way. As soon as you took the Constitution under the bench and read this article, it means that you yourself do not believe in this consensus and you are not for it and probably this side would act that way. I insist that the clubs agree that we parliamentarians make a deal. This is too important a question to be outsmarted, to vote. The Commissioner for Information must be at the service of the Croatian public. The opposition can't even name him and you said he controls the government. How can you control the power of 555 local units when in every unit of tiger skin. You know we won't hope one party won't be in power in all 550 local units. So you're formally right, but the House can decide that the commissioner is elected by consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31989	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is now up to Independent List and Honored Representative Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31990	Your Honor, Mr. President, Deputy Proposer, the Independent Representatives' Club will share this debate in two parts. In the first part, I will talk about this bill and in the second part, Damir Cain will speak. What I would point out, the adoption of this law and we stand on the defence of the right of constitutional freedom and the right to information of citizens and what should be respected. Constitutional principles should stick to that anything not prohibited is allowed. It is simply allowed that it is not prohibited, which is prohibited and sanctioned. What's forbidden often doesn't sanction itself and then you get the impression that you can do whatever you want. You will not answer to anyone and being on a scale of power on a higher step is less responsible for what seems or does not seem to be. Last summer, I read a book called "The Eighth Sins of Obedience." Seven are the main sins and one writer wrote the book of the eighth sin-to-obedience. Its conclusion is that in the name of obedience in the history of the human race, the most evil has been done. You should listen to some alleged unquestionable authority. People simply defended themselves when they did something. That was ordered. I was in the service, I had to do it. That mental set of eighth sin, hearing, I'm afraid he's also present in this House so that we don't jump out of the collage of party discipline and think freely. I believe that this book of the eighth sin-obedience is good, that it is necessary to read or consult. What I would like to warn you about in this presentation is that there is one problem I have seen as a member of the HRT Programme Council there in 2001, 2002, 2003. It's self-censorship for crazy are laws when a man's already stuffed to say so in environmental, political practice, lifestyle, he's stuffed to behave in accordance with not political authorities or officials in political power, but he listens to his subconscious that's stuffed to create autocensorship and where he's gone and where no one asks him to. This is a problem of education for free information and for free treatment. Autocensorship will unfortunately remain and, unfortunately, after the adoption of this law on the right to free information, it will remain and we will not make a more significant move. We also have many committees that we have established to make the principles of the Constitution work more effectively. I fear that by multiplying the committees we did not come out of the crisis but deepened it, that it would also be by setting up a committee of information that unfortunately, the practice would be the same, the powerful would remain the same and untouchable and would not answer to anyone for anything. There is a need for law enforcement, which is prohibited by law, and should be sanctioned. Then order, work and responsibility will be introduced. Without it, many laws do not mean improving the situation but only deepening the crisis. So much for the first part.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31991	Thank you very much. The second part of the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31992	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy, gentlemen representatives. Well, the law is decided. This law lays down the right to access information and re-use of information owned by public authorities, the principles of the right to access information shall be laid down. It is said here that this law regulates the other obligations of the public authority and the infringement provisions, the provisions of this law do not apply to parties in court, administrative and other in law-founded procedures which are absolutely logical. It doesn't make sense on the other hand that Mr. Vuksic was talking about that the judges don't want to "substrate" the property card and that I don't count on it any further. But what we must one day regulate, hopefully we will, and the government of the Republic of Croatia is on the right track, we must thank these PR agencies representing mainly local authorities. on the same day when the government made a decision when it told the state-level PR agencies in Pula for 400, 500 thousand kuna hired PR agencies plus 70,000 kuna of those local companies, etc. And it just doesn't lead to anything. There are 4, 5 of these PR agencies in Istria, and it's just a shame. And what are they doing? They're renting media spaces and running one of the ugliest campaigns I'd say in modern Croatia but I won't talk about it. What is certainly the point of this is the article of the 5th Law where it is said that the user is entitled to access information and reuse of information in further text is the user of any domestic or foreign natural and legal person. Home and party, legal or physical person. Is that good? That's certainly not bad, but every foreign natural person. Whether anyone knows a citizen of Italy, Austria, Germany, Slovenia, BiH, Serbia can simply communicate with the authorities of the Croatian state or local self-government. Maybe that's a good thing, maybe you should think about it. Maybe we shouldn't be more papal than the Pope in my court. Article 13 states that a public authority is required to ensure the right to access information to establish a specific official responsible for resolving the right to access information in the further text of the Information Officer. And there's a way that we might be able to come up with this law. What does that really mean? To be translated under the table in some way into the bodies of these public authorities can employ another 500, 1000, 1500 people in the function of people to provide information. I personally hope it doesn't work that way. I repeat once again that the government's intention when it proposes this law is absolutely fair, that intention should be supported, the law should be adopted, but that intention certainly costs. It should not be expected that in some way the mayor, the mayor, the Prime Minister, what I know about the head of the MUP or the director of HEP will do and give that information but it means it needs some other official person, but it can and must be with the existing persons. I would put an emphasis on it in some way because it certainly hires 500 or 1000 or 1500 people cannot and must not be the intensity of the law. It is also interesting that, on the basis of the request for access to information, the public authority will decide no later than 15 days from the date of submission of the regulatory application. I think it might be a more appropriate deadline for 30 days. However, as we all know, this law has its commissioner in its replicas. This Commissioner shall carry out the tasks of the second-degree body in order to resolve complaints, monitor and carry out inspection, monitor the implementation of this law and regulations, propose public authorities to take measures to improve and exercise the right to access information, inform the public of the right of users to access information, etc., etc. Later on, something about it. Article 38 discusses the discharge of the Commissioners, but it is not mentioned by the Institute that if the Parliament does not accept the report. I think we should sort of install it into the text of this law. We mean as Mr. Grubisic mentioned earlier with the defenders, the Ombudsman, as we would say by the civil defender of the one for gender equality, for children, I don't know who I don't now get de facto under the quotes of another lawyer under quotes, with powers of the second-degree supervisory body. I think that here, in fact, huge power joins in the function of one man. In some ways, he becomes both a lawyer and an inspector and a judge. I don't know if that's law enforcement, but I dare say too much power is concentrated in the hands of an individual who is de facto becoming a repeat attorney and an inspector and a judge. That it may not be according to that people's religion: cadiya sueth thee, and the incense judgeth thee. If we want to be just as honest, the only government that the citizens are somehow overseeing is MPs. We let go of the election, we let go of what we decide or we don't all decide together. Real power, everyone will probably agree to it in executive power. And where else is in this unchangeable administration? An old director in Istria from the Stone of Pazin, an institution among the directors, told me about it, in a year I would make local, state-owned bureaucracy 100% more effective. What would you do, how you imagine it, so that they follow the simple fate of you. Clearly it's impossible, they stay, we leave. Who is able to evaluate the work of the administration? Representatives are valued by citizens, people who are headed by political institutions also citizens. The second echelon under quotes does not evaluate the work of almost anyone. Clearly this is not the subject of this law, clearly that this other echelon I will call it so should be protected, that they must not be played by anyone it is absolutely clear, but they should work. Now we hear, I think Mr. Vuksic was saying something that some of us don't know if he said it, the PR agencies that we say in Istria are sucking out the soul and body of local self-government and municipal services working at HRT or at HRT pro bono. Oh, gentlemen, who are you? And that's what I'm going to say, the law is good, the law is needed, just so it doesn't turn into one of its opposites so that it doesn't hire 450 under quotes as it's called the official people to provide information in municipalities, so there are 127 official persons in cities, plus 20 official persons in the county with their bodies, and normally in the City of Zagreb, and in 20 ministries, and even in a thousand public companies that we have, whether it's public companies, whether it's these large ones controlled by the Croatian government, and that the predominant state bureaucracy becomes even more glamorous so that with the speakers who have many bodies, I don't know why they have them, we now get hundreds of official persons in the bodies of local and state authorities. I'm sure he can't do that, and it's not the intensity of this law. And finally, on the basis of the Constitution, we cannot choose the Commissioner from the 2/3 majority but I agree with all those who have said or who mention that he could be chosen with a little goodwill by parliamentary consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31993	Thank you very much. Now we have replicas. The first replica of the presentation of the respected representative Ivan Grubisic, representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31994	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I will only repeat to the distinguished representative Grubisic that the Croatian Assembly is a representative body of citizens and the holder of the legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia and that in the Croatian Parliament, if the Constitution is not otherwise defined, decisions are made by majority of votes if most of the representatives are present at the session and that representatives vote in person. Political parties, especially in this hearing and in power, which applies naturally to the majority of the coalition mandated in the Republic of Croatia to get this country out of the crisis, are also determined by the Constitution that we must work on democratic principles. So the parliamentary democracy that we have in Croatia is based, however, on the decisions of the majority that the minority in that segment must make and all MPs, surely most of them, can say especially of the CNS, personally and think and make decisions and have no ear, have only ear and desire in essence that this Croatia
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31995	Replica response, respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31996	It is never good to generalise things and I always believe that there are good, honest and wise people on one side and on the other. As for the very call for the legitimacy of democratic elections and party formation, I could not agree that everything is in line with democratic procedures because it would be normal for the lists to be open and that citizens have the right to round up the candidates they want, not to go first on the list as determined by certain powers. So much for democratic procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31997	Thank you very much. Now the replicas of the presentation of the respected representative Damir Cain. The first replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31998	Dear colleague Cain, not entering the PR agency and in your fight with Jakovčić, but you said one thing you should know that even under the existing law today in all municipalities, these cities were mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors had to designate a person or an information officer. And it's mostly unless they've really acted out, hired party personnel like they've been doing this for the past year, even without competitions from various ministries, cabinets, various companies, etc. were just now employees and these municipalities and cities and counties. This was also about those famous findings of review, of conditional opinion. So sometimes you get that conditional opinion for purely prosaic reasons, not for some illegal business, not to say even possible crime, but for example. you cannot make recapitalisations in a company because you do not have practical insurance, you have a mixed ownership structure and you do not have two-thirds of the votes secured so that you can make one such decision and therefore review, because you have not solved those equity shares and a new and practically new capital injection you get a conditional opinion. Even this Law on the right to access information depends on how many citizens they will and how much they want and how much they want to consume the right to information not only through the Internet, but also on written and written requirements.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u31999	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32000	I am not running for Mr. Vinkovic any fight with Jakovcic, he is running for the European Parliament for something completely different. I'm not in any conflict with him, although I think he's in conflict with the citizens of Istria, but let's let it go now. When we talk about PR agencies, they literally make money. That's the problem. Whose money are they sucking out? They're sucking out public money and it needs to be stopped. Let them spend party, private, such or such donations, that's no problem. Let them direct after that the media however they know, however they want. Let them give themselves to them, but let them not abuse public money. It is true that even so far, by virtue of the positive laws, every local self-government should have appointed this officer to provide that information. However, I am afraid that in one reasonable time we will get a number of professionals who will deal exclusively with this job and at these times of this crisis, many may be sick.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32001	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32002	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Cain, you said in your presentation that the only person who is supervised in Croatia were parliamentary representatives. And then after that, you concluded and supported this law, i.e. said you'd raise your hand for the same. Now, what does this look like in practice, colleague Cain? Article 37 gives the Commissioner for Information a coefficient of the Vice-President of the Working Bodies of the Croatian Parliament 5.70. And yet we're surprised what's going on. We pay him more than we have parliamentary representatives, yet I claim it is not small for Croatian opportunities but I do not know what we reward and what business we undertake them to have this size. Secondly, we are talking about the Law on the right to access information that, through certain articles and through the Commissioner for Information, is subject to the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, the right to access – Protection Agency. He takes out a department, they're his professional service, he's his boss. Next, fellow Caine, you also support the fact that tomorrow, if you are mayor, I hope you will, and perhaps you won't, have to appoint an official who will replace the current mayoral candidate's current spokeswoman, i.e. The current mayor is no longer a candidate and put up his official. These are the facts stemming from this law and you support it even though you are now independent and you can do whatever you want. I don't know why.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32003	And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32004	Not to replace anyone, but it would be best if those brought with them by Jakovcic followed his fate. I think that would be fair. I'm indirectly telling them that somehow you follow the one who brought you. And Jakovcic hired no less than 30% more people in the county administration than there were in 2001. But let's let it go now. I also agree with what you're saying is that the Commissioner is in one way and the Advocate and the Inspector and the Judge and that in his hands, or in that institution, the enormous power, is too much power in one person. And if I were to give that information to the public, I'm 100% in favour, but I think the commissioner has to be monitored. And I would therefore suggest that this Commissioner, like the other defenders, subscribe to the Croatian Assembly at least once a year to his report so that through the form of acceptance or non-acceptance of the parliamentary majority or I do not know what I will call it, decides in some way on its work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32005	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. It is now the turn of the HNS club and respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32006	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party will support the adoption of this Law on the right to access information. We believe that this bill has responded to the challenge of the time we live in, and this time we all have to admit is a good part of the information time. And if that's how we look at it and fit that story into an old saying, which is, "That information is power."and that information is actually except for power, that it is ultimately money and time. Then we know how vital this information is, not only for all of our citizens, but also for stakeholders, and for entrepreneurs, and for potential investors who should come to the Republic of Croatia and who we call so irritablely very often from this pay phone. Of course, this law is extremely important in the context that Croatia has been trying for 20 years to frame itself as a whole as a legal state and as a just state. This law is in some way also a certain bureaucratic, anti-burocratic reform of the public administration system in Croatia. In fact, we are very often witnesses, not often mentioned here by our ministers, once state secretary, today's assistants, so state officials who mean in possession of certain information, manipulated this information. It is not those who may have been the most common actors to manipulate information, but precisely all the structures that are below it, so the overall public administration and bureaucracy were most often the one that prevented that availability. This law, i.e. procedures, protocols and competent authorities that should ensure the public and the availability of information, should prevent it, i.e. should ensure that it is available. Of course, we should protect ourselves at the same time, we here at HNS are particularly committed, the protection and safety of individuals, the dignity of individuals and certain groups so that this availability of information does not go counter-processing, means against individuals, against the freedom of that individual, against his personal security, regardless of the individual being such or a certain group of people or a particular interest group. Since this is, of course, one thin, very thin line, or one walking wire, of course, that this law has provoked quite a lot of discussion on which side it will overcome, especially when it comes to the control system, it means who will control that this law is actually implemented. So most of course the controversy was caused by the appearance of the Commissioner. However, we must be aware that for many years although we had this law, less or more good, we had no body to control the implementation of this law. And regardless of what we're calling for here, some are calling for it, there's a body that's left to it, and that's the former government's decision, and that's the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. We must admit and say quite clearly that the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data essentially has nothing to do with the protection of the right to access information. We in HNS believe that the law, that a good measure has been found, in this part of which I was talking about, means about that line, or the thin line on which side it will be exceeded, and time is likely to show whether this standard line can and must rise and more or perhaps someone will come, God forbid it would be the first time that such a thing happens. This law is about trying to prevent and corrupt, this law is a step towards higher democratic standards, this law is certainly a step towards speeding up Croatia's development, I have already mentioned it. So one of the great regrets is precisely all these bureaucratic barriers, and that is certainly one good part of the barrier related to information that is not available to those who are looking for them, here I mean, first of all, part of the economy and the market, and surely in that part of the law will do its part. I've been thinking about reminding you of one example of where there's been huge damage in the economy, which has just been pushed through and benefited, or damage has been done because it's been manipulated by information, which is our famous privatisation. It is quite clear today that, in most cases, in this privatisation, whoever had the information, who directed them to certain addresses had, above all, enormous power, and what was due to all this, is a huge damage to the whole society, that we are not talking about individuals and workers and all those who died in this process. Where it actually manipulated itself with information. There's a series of examples like that, but maybe this one's one of the most painful ones, so I pointed it out. The HNS is in its programme, so here it has been talking about public administration reform for ten and more years, talking about the importance of its effectiveness, transparency, measurement of its work, and courtesy. It means one correct cultural relationship, authorities, public institutions, from officials to the smallest official within these institutions, related to providing timely and true information to citizens. According to this law, information should actually be available in advance, i.e. most information should be available in a way that does not require any specific requirement for them and is likely to be a problem because our systems, institutions are not sufficiently educated that or did not want to be educated that within these institutions, within the state and public administrations, they make and information available. Today, of course, this should not be any problem because there is a whole series of tools to make this information very accessible. Not to mention being regularly updated by websites, by all other technologies, information that can be done, but of course also in some classic ways that we know and these are some advertising boards of standard communication with citizens. It will probably take a very great effort in these administrations and I think it is the Commissioner but not only the Commissioner as a person but also the team, which will lead him to make great efforts in education. Someone here was saying, I think it's a colleague of Cain's that now it's going to take hundreds of some people to get a job, who's going to inform our citizens. I believe that in most units of local self-government and our institutions there are people who may not be called informers or that they may already be called rather than people who are in charge of providing information and who have certain powers from their leaders, from their directors, directors, etc. to provide information to citizens or to provide these services. Of course, there's going to be extra education, but I don't see any bigger problems here. I know from personal experience that we have introduced certain regulations and laws under which we have introduced internal controls and audits within the body of the public administration, and there is simply the head of the administration appointed the person who is in charge of it and who is personally responsible for carrying out these tasks when it comes to finance. Therefore, in a very similar way within the body of the public authority and institutions it will be necessary to appoint such persons who already exist and who are doing certain jobs and, of course, adequately educate them for the job. We welcome the proposal by which the Commissioner will be appointed. He's sort of the authority of this House of Commons. He will have very high powers, but we will also have the right to him and hear the report on his work and that is the position of the HNS is good. He will also have criminal powers, which we think so far has actually been a huge shortage that could not be adequately sanctioned. Disrespecting the law is why we will, of course, support it. Here, of course, whenever we talk about personal issues and here, among other things, we talk about the choice of the person who will do so, then the position, or the proposer, is called out that he did not propose that the choice be made by a two-thirds majority or even some kind of consensus, and there was a lot of debate about it, or it was pointed out. So you hear me, I believe most of us would like to go to some ideal society that, for the time being, is still my personal court of utopia in which we will agree on the most just and best and decide something by consensus. However, democracy has reached a degree of its development and we are applying the most developed one or trying to apply the most developed one that works and is applicable. Therefore, the two-thirds majority of the vote in the Assembly is intended for certain actions only. In this case, it is not so and we can negotiate and we can talk and we may even come up with a common solution within some lobbying talks within the Parliament but ultimately know how we will vote or should and should if we respect the laws that we ourselves have adopted and the Constitution that we ourselves have adopted. And some of the future times in which we will have this degree of democracy that we will all agree on together then probably won't be necessary either the elections, there won't be any need for political parties, there won't be a minority or most of ours or yours and everything will be ideal and we'll probably all be satisfied. But I think we're all still a long way from it all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32007	Thank you, too, Your Honor. We have reports of replicas on your exhibit. The first one is a replica and a respected representative of Denesh Shaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32008	Thank you very much, President. In a debate, a colleague said that the provisions of this law were bureaucratic and later anti-burocratic. Now, from further exposure, I couldn't figure out whether it was one or the other. However, I would like to say this, my colleague Cain has already pointed out that a number of new employees in various institutions could, above all, be employed by municipalities and counties, even a fine of 2 to 4 000 for the public authority if he does not appoint an information officer. It's probably imagined that bigger towns and cities can have officials, and in smaller local self-government it's someone with their jobs to do it. However, I am not sure that the time of the law is best timed since we are at the end of the term of those chosen 4 years ago and are now appearing, I am speaking from experience, those who failed in the elections 4 years ago will now be very aggressively looking for data on the work of these 4 years and we will be exposed to giving that information back 3, 4 years and our officials will have to dig up 20, 30 registries, etc. and the best intentions of this law will some benefit and cause certain costs in a negative sense, in this sense, that the problem will indeed be bureaucratic, which is certainly not intentional. Otherwise, I support the absolute content of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32009	Thank you very much. And a response to the replica of the respected representative, Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32010	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So when I said it was bureaucratic reform or anti-berocratic, I said it in that sense that we are also talking through the proposal of this law about part of public administration reform in terms of responsibility and body but of course all officials working in the sense that they must act in a way that when they are asked to carry out a particular job or to provide information at any level of the public administration body that they must do so in accordance with this law. In that sense, maybe you're more clear now. And as for the appointment, you read it yourself. In the body of a state administration or a particular institution, the head of that institution or body that decides will appoint from the alleged existing employees someone who will be in charge of these tasks. So that necessarily, I don't know now maybe in some situations it'll be necessary to hire employees, but I guess in most situations it won't be necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32011	New replica and respected representative Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32012	... a state where we will need neither the parties nor the laws nor the work of Parliament. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I think it's about utopia. We need to address specific problems in a concrete way, and our starting point must be constitutional principles and institutions of provisions to be followed in this country. By organising committees, agencies and other bodies only increase the cost of the state budget and we can see that no problems are solved. So the ideal condition won't be easy to wait for.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32013	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And a response to the replica of the respected representative, Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32014	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, I didn't hear everything very well what Mr. Grubisic said, but I think I managed to connect what he wanted to replicate. Well, I agree with you, too. We live in reality, and we have to treat reality practically, realistically, pragmatically, and this law goes in that justice. And also our Constitution has reached one level at this moment where it is practically feasible. And within that we can move. Everything else is of course our wishes of good which in some future and I hope will be possible to realize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32015	New replica and respected representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32016	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you've told your colleagues that it is still utopia to reach consensus or agreement that is being sought in a parliamentary debate in the appointment of some important officials and persons who will carry out important tasks. So it's not utopia, it's a good parliamentary practice, let's say, last term of the Croatian Parliament, where I would warn you that, for example, the Law on HRT was practically passed by consensus that, equally in this House, the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board of the HRT were elected by agreement, by reaching an agreement, and then the two-thirds majority elected by the director of HRT. So it is a good parliamentary practice not necessarily seeking a two-thirds majority but reaching consensus on such important issues as opposed to parliamentary practice in this meeting, which is quite the opposite. So no Utopia has been checked in practice and this good practice should continue in this case selecting the Commissioners for Information which is undoubtedly an important job and an important function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32017	And a response to the replica of the respected representative, Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32018	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, colleagues, Lovrin, I don't argue that consensus can reach some goals and some elections in this case of elections, but I think that they can be done within the framework of parliamentary democracy, but not in a way that we can break the laws and put them in the drafts of the law and we vote here, but in the framework of the work of the Parliament and the agreement of the political options that no one is defending us, and that we will agree on that, we know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32019	Thank you very much. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 207 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have expired at 10.47 hours for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. The SDP Club of Croatia is next in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Josip Kregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32020	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen. Democracy is not one finished act and it will now be... years to develop in terms of upgrade of institutions, but certainly as one form of decision on how we will live together in a way that stopped believing that democracy happens every four years when elections are held. Many mechanisms have been created that are the tools of every democratic government, every democratic system that should contribute to better governance and better government. They often encounter great misunderstandings because they are new, because they have not been tested, because we have not had them applied, but they try to apply good experiences, and one of these is the availability of information. I will not talk about Sweden having such legislation for over 150 years, that this legislation has developed mainly in the Anglo-Saxon democracies in the 1960s and especially in the 1970s, but especially in the late 20th and early 21st centuries. A large number of countries, new democracies adopted such legislation and Croatia in 2003, to commend our predecessors as well. But what we're talking about today is a truly commendable effort to make changes, actually a new law that would systematically settle this issue. That's why I'm going to start my presentation with a single emphasis on a praise like this, in a number of steps like this, it might go unnoticed. It is commendable for the co-operation of the Ministry of Administration with NGOs, with the European Commission and with experts in the construction of this law. It was not one bureaucratic project but an attempt to engage in its creation by all those who can creatively and with their knowledge contribute to its quality. I especially point out such participatory style in lawmaking because there were extremely sensitive things that would come about by misunderstanding and heavy criticism. That is reflected in this debate. Professional criteria on this law facilitate this job since there is a great practice in a large number of countries. Over a hundred countries have passed or changed such laws over the past 10 years, even those who traditionally had such laws as the UK and even the United States have contributed to a series of modifications to such practice, but the real thing we can see is the adoption of similar legal texts in countries of new democracy, transition countries, developing countries, countries where democratic institutions have not fully lived. And that is the framework that has been set up for us as a task and a requirement in negotiations to find solutions to the improvement of this law. We had it, but it did not meet those criteria of democracy which Europe is asking of us. Croatia was ahead of the law in 2003, but something very dangerous has been shown here, that in the application of this law there is actually a whole series of possibilities of obstruction, either by selecting people who do not have much interest in its implementation, or because there is a culture of secrecy and sanctity of data that should not be given to citizens, whether because the institutional solutions we had were not good. But some here in the assembly are a number of mandates and they remember what the discussions on reports on the application of this law were and it was a kind of learning process in which we saw that solutions some, especially institutional ones we had, were not sufficient to guarantee the achievement of the objectives of that law. Some of the parliamentarians, I won't mention them by name, were crucially responsible for the fact that such ideas broke into the public and became an integral part of the intellectual atmosphere in Croatian society. But let me point out some things that are related to the previous and this law that are very important. In the debate in the House here, there has been a certain doubt or misunderstanding about what the real purpose of this law is. Mr. Piculjan said in his introduction, and I think it should be emphasized, that the purpose of this law is not to create one specific or powerful institution of Commissioners, although many refer to it, but rather to give priority to the possibility of improving the criteria of good authority. Good authority is not limited only to open power, it implies the application of the principle of legality, professionality in the work of these bodies, responsibility, but certainly it cannot be a good none of the authorities if it is not open, if it does not try to give its citizens legitimacy, to make it easier to obtain all that information that is important for the assessment of some decision to see if it could be different. And besides, the legitimacy of the government is raised because we share responsibility if we know what is being decided but we are only passively shot if our decisions are served in that form in which we are not aware, we are not informed of the alternatives. Therefore, the main objective of this law is not only to promote the right of citizens to obtain information but to impose an obligation on public authorities, which is why a very important definition of the bodies concerned, and which is very good and expanded in relation to the previous, imposing an obligation on public authorities to inform citizens in due time and time, in truth, of all the things that are important for their action and decision-making. To be clear, of course we've always been objected to, let's just say we don't have a transparent budget spending. Of course, it's one of the things that's being promoted by this law. And that's the right for citizens to get information about how public funds are used. That's what the main goal is. This law is not simply an additional means of media freedom. He will give, after all, and practice has been created in this period precisely through media and free media and journalists on the expansion and application of this law. Well remember, this law was created in such a way that the authorities did not properly explain watches, spending funds or what certain institutions in the system of government are doing. That's what this helps, but it's not just about that. Because the real owners of the information aren't the bodies they have, the real owners of the information are citizens. That is why they are entitled, and the obligation for these bodies to inform them on time and fully. It is also mentioned that this law is indeed one of those anti-corruption laws. Like any good government is unsullied power. This law, of course, also relies on international documents. Let's say the UN Convention on the Prevention of Corruption, which requires those governments and states that ratified the Convention to make those conventions and apply. But this, this task doesn't just come down to it. There can be no fight against corruption if someone is ruling information and giving it selectively. I know how painful and difficult it is to expose yourself to the public's interest. Well, many of you are witnesses of how difficult this is, but it is necessary to give freedom and responsibility to the press, the right to receive the information they seek. There are obligations of other international nature, conventions and Council of Europe, Convention 2 of 2002, you did not mention. In fact, there is one Convention on the right to access information of the Council of Europe, so when Croatia becomes something more democratic, perhaps we will also ratify and sign and so forth. But there is one broad movement that has included all parts of the world, which includes one network and institutions and institutes, NGOs, state bodies, which promotes such activities. The most important thing about the Croatian government's commitment is an open power partnership. It's an initiative launched by the United States that has the best experience in this respect and I think it can certainly be for us in a lot of role models in the openness of government. The Open Authority Partnership is an obligation of the Republic of Croatia, which contains not only the possibility of easier access to information but also the need for government to act in terms of participatory democracy. So it is about informed participation of citizens in decision-making and no less important to promote the professional integrity of people who perform public positions, public duties. All this says that this law has arisen not as a game of the case or an attempt to solve only the problem of the European Commission's demands, although it is indisputable. This is one of the most important things that has committed the adoption of this law, is the need to meet these requirements to show will and political wisdom in this. It is, however, that there is a change in climate and attitude towards the authorities and public administration that is not satisfied with the fact that we have days and ready recipes but that we must have unberocratic and responsible authority. But since time goes, I'm only going to stay at some controversial points here. There is a lack of understanding in the debate, which is a lack of understanding of the position of Commissioners. The Commissioner is not a powerful man, he only has what all citizens should have. He's the one who can get an insight into information that the citizen didn't get, he's more help, some kind of consultant, some kind of help that a citizen gets asking for information he's entitled to. What's unusually important is I'm going to use one example, you know we can generally talk about how a man loses his sight over time but it's important that he has glasses if he doesn't see well. So here and here, if we agree that the information is not available, then we need to know that an institution or an assistant should help. No power, no extra body. Besides, we've had bodies that dealt with these issues before. The other important thing is the cost. There's an idea here that comes to terms, it naturally comes to the idea that the law is going to cause a lot of employment. No, it is simply a wish to determine someone who will be in charge of information, Mr. Vinkovic probably felt quite well from his experience. But in this respect, even the Commissioner is not something that spends money, he is, as is the issue of state audit when we have discussed, some kind of help to make better use of the funds. Whether an agency or an individual is a big question, but there are different good and bad experiences in the world with each of these forms. As already at law-making in 2003, a question arises whether it should be an agency or, as has the agency Serbia, Ukraine, Turkey, Montenegro, Macedonia or Hungary, or whether it should be an individual such as Canada, Australia, such as Great Britain, Scotland, the Czech Republic or Slovenia. I think the choice has been made very well, and that is to be the Commissioner, the person, is and the expectations of the public are that someone will be responsible for it. And finally, finally, let me just comment on the question of the majority in the adoption of this law. After the presentation and replica of Mrs. Lovrin, I think the additional explanations, especially needn't, but there's one experience that we learned in passing these laws, these laws in the past, its changes, and that's that we all say we agree, but then they lower technical and financial details, it turns out that there's no consensus. We learned to recognize false obstructions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32021	Thank you very much. Now we have seven lines reported, so let's go one by one. The first replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32022	Dear colleague Kregar, here's this from the very end when you mentioned Mrs. Lovrin and the question of the majority, not the formal majority, because it doesn't allow us the Constitution. It is a matter of goodwill, of parliamentaryism, of consensus in Parliament. It's possible if he wants power, I'm sorry if he wants power. Do not transfer responsibility or cause obstruction or pre-opposition to the opposition. However, one sentence at the very beginning challenged me in this replica, and that is your line right: "Democracy is not the end of the act.". Is it possible, I ask myself not to answer, is democracy strictly controlled by the media possible? Is it possible for democracy with a chaotic judiciary, is it possible for a parliamentary democracy in which members of Parliament are unspeakable handlifters, either for parties or for leaders, or for powerful people, or for power centres outside politics? Is it possible that democracy is serving state authorities, here I mean not only the Croatian government but I mean all the authorities, I mean globally international corporations. Did the owner, you said, that the owners of information should be citizens because the information is public good, which I have previously claimed, which is not difficult to assert, but how do we achieve democracy in the atmosphere when the public is doing well, when all kinds of privatisation is glorified? These are questions that should be explained, very difficult in two minutes, democracy is becoming less and less and less democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32023	Thank you very much. And a reply to the line, the esteemed representative, Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32024	I'll tell you what I agree with right now, with a part of the last sentence that's not done, that's for sure. And I agree with most of the things you said about the restrictions we have, but here we are discussing one concrete law and a particular problem, which is how to pass a law that will make the government more responsible and open. And if that's our position is like, again I'm going to use one picturesque example, like the position of a doctor who examines your eyes, he has to prescribe you glasses even though he knows you're sick of many other things. But here, this is about citizens having better information, to better see what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32025	A new replica and respected representative of the Sunana Glavak. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32026	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Kregar, you said that you were complaining, that you were complaining about the previous authorities, you were complaining about what seemed and what didn't seem to be happening today. I will remind you, colleague Kregar, only, is it possible for the Prime Minister to ask the MPs about spending budget money, 30 million kunas who are resupplying debts arising from a public-private partnership, says he knows nothing about it and pretends he's not interested in it at all. So, even when it is required that these contracts be made available to the public, it is still complaining today. No law is perfect, and no law will force the public authority to act on it. We need to get to that level to simply cut it into our daily work and start doing it, only by law we can't order someone to do it. And I'll just correct you, you say it's not a new cost, that it's not a new cost when the promoter says in article 39 that it's necessary to secure money from the state budget, so speaking about the Commissioner's office and the new Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32027	The replica matches the esteemed Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32028	I thank you for those three, those three questions or remarks. As for the first, I know that political powers are not easy to learn order, but please support the law that gives you a foothold and gives you tools. Because this law obliges the bodies of public authorities and officials in them to provide information, not to ignore or mock such questions. And that's the law. Please support, as far as the cost question is concerned, so of course there is always costs in every government action. But I repeat this like it's bigger. That the costs of repairing the government are something that would prevent or prevent us from adopting this law or a crucial issue at all. Here is a question of what needs to be achieved and agreement in what way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32029	We'll hear the replica of Ante Babic now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32030	In your presentation, you praised the introduction of the Commissioner for Information for the participatoryness of citizens and you forget that we have the Law on the Ombudsman and the Regulation of the Ombudsman, and in this law in Article 2 it is said that the Ombudsman is the authority of the Croatian Parliament for the promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms established by the constitution, laws and international legal acts, and that freedom of information and thus the availability of information owned by the public authority is one of the fundamental human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32031	Replication response, dear Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32032	I thank you for asking a dear colleague of the grandmother. One thing I've praised here actually has a lot of stops and arguments about it. It's been said here that this is a week of good law. The truth of the public remains less noticeable here that last night's debate was in an extremely constructive tone of welcoming good things. Then let me welcome the adoption of a good law and not pay attention to anything else that may be the subject of criticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32033	The esteemed representative Miroslav Tudjman will also replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32034	Thank you. I agree with most of what you cited as motives and reasons to pass this law. However, what should be warned was missed, that is what has not been said and what has not been done. You mentioned Sweden as having 150 years of tradition, but what has to be said, Sweden has built a lot on the protection of man's dignity, so it can't be mentioned in the papers that someone is a criminal, a thief, or so on until the court has said so. Therefore, this whole complex of laws or what would refer to a man's dignity is missing from us. On the other hand, there is no national strategy, no information strategy. We know today that information is one of the four basic instruments of national power. If we don't have this strategy, then this whole story of this law becomes insufficient for us if we go with the fact that there is an honest authority, that there are those who do good work and how those business interests are protected, is it simply not regulated by this law? Therefore, what is a problem should in any case be supported to make the government responsible but we should also make everything else responsible by the media, which we can prove that the media is as much damage as the incorrect or corrupt government or NGOs. You mentioned the U.S. but the U.S. was the first to adopt provisions on NGOs and rules on how they behave, and if we were to use those provisions in our case, then the question of how this is a very quoted NGO here could do business at all and how it would work. So this law itself is not enough if we don't have a whole bunch of those relationships.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32035	The replica matches the esteemed Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32036	... What is quite clear, however, is that, unlike the United States, regardless of the legislation in our country, civil society still needs one kind of support, understanding regardless of the remarks it can receive. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] It can't take on many tasks. But one task here is for nothing to promote the openness of power, because the question of information you said correctly. Information is a weapon. We're handing it over to the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32037	Now we're going to hear the replica of our colleague Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32038	Thank you. Dear colleague Kregar, with much of your debate, I agree. I've only got one clue. You said article five listed the exact bodies of the public authorities even expanded it fine. However, Articles 15 and 16 limit the right to access information. Article 15 of the first paragraph states that a public authority may restrict access to information when it comes to investigative and investigative activities and that is logical. That's good. However, who is it that the public authorities may know that an investigative or investigative action is under way, if it is unlikely for me that every authority will know about it, and in particular it is illogical that, in the third paragraph of that Article, the 15 public authorities may also restrict access to information, says in the first subparagraph, if that publication would prevent the effective, independent and impartial conduct of a judicial, administrative or other legal procedure, and then should be placed in that sub-assembly if knowledge should be put in place if the conduct of an investigative and investigative procedure should be prevented. That's what I'm saying because of the recent affair that we had with the release of that data, you remember that from the SOA that the listening director of SOA who, according to the police director, had prevented the later conduct of the investigation and, according to them, had not finally been brought to trial. And I'd just like to say one more thing, so I think that article 15th even and 16th test of proportion of public interest should be done a little more precisely. There's one thing I wouldn't agree with from your debate. It's incomplete is your finding that any good authority is an untapped power, it's one of the conditions of good authority. Any good authority must first of all be a capable government that works for the benefit of its own citizens. And if she's unsuspecting and incompetent, then she's not a good authority again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32039	The reply to the replica and the esteemed Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32040	Dear Mr. Buric, limited availability of information is the most sensitive point of the entire system. That is why they are so careful and next practice of international documents and other legislation as well as written. The additional reason is the fact of exceptional sensitivity to external influence on judicial and similar bodies. However, this law has been quite changed in the same way as if you had previously made that observation to resolve the remark you made by having a test of public interest that allows even when there is a ban and restrictions to come to light some data. And the last question of good authority is not my rhetoric or definition. She's defined in... 39 from '99 into five elements he's got. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I couldn't quote everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32041	Followed by a replica of respected Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32042	Dear colleague Kregar, I really agree that this is primarily about contributing to the construction and implementation at the end of this law because if no one sticks to a good law, and I think primarily about citizens who need to know their practical and their rights, but I would say the obligation to get information because it is a circle unless there are citizens in it then this law doesn't even make sense. But simply to enlighten this commissioner, he's not written in that sense, but he's just one other-stage body. If the bodies of the local authorities, the authorities of the state, therefore, all those who exercise authority do their job in a transparent manner, if those information officers do their job then I would say one additional help to citizens on the right to information will not be necessary at the very least. And I really need to follow the experience and I believe that here in both the Croatian Parliament and the Government and in the ministries we have enough professional, capable personnel of full knowledge and that, in practice, this Commissioner and this service should be sought in such services, as in most cases, units of local self-government have done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32043	And the last replica of the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32044	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you said that I don't know anything about the context that you don't need to worry about how the Commissioner is going to choose because he's not going to be a powerful man and it's not going to cost anything. Well, first of all, I don't think I'd agree that he's not going to be a powermaker or that he's not going to be an important institution. First of all, he will have the authority and the considerable powers that come from this law, and it is therefore important that he be responsible for these actions. They will mainly have, not when the body is deprived of negligent information, etc. but when a public authority carries out a test of public interest when it decides it will not provide information, it will appeal to the Commissioner. The Commissioner will therefore be a second-degree body compared to all authorities at national and local level. I repeat, even when the information protected under the Data Securitisation Act has been prevented when the first-degree body requests the opinions of the National Security Council Office as a body that protects national and national security and protected data. If he does not decide to give the information, he will appeal to the commissioner. The Commissioner will also request the opinion of that office but the law does not say anywhere whether this opinion is binding or not binding, which means that this person will be able to make the most important information available for national security unless it is a binding opinion of the Council's Office, and therefore his power will be quite large and it is not for national security quite anyway. Second, you said you wouldn't...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32045	Now we won't have time for another.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32046	Here's what it says in the very explanation that it will...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32047	But we'll hear the answer to this first. Dear Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32048	... But there's also this important thing about things that are protected by the prevailing interest of the state to have certain secrets. [[Specially enabled.]] I think why we don't trust a commissioner who's bigger than our trust in an officer who has it because the commissioner and he's responsible for what he saw and according to what he saw, he's assessing whether the public needs to know or not. I think it's a big step forward. I'm not here to identify secret services with some sort of mentality and tradition of secrecy that exists, but it's quite clear that the public, society with this has a pretty bad experience, not only in political affairs but in material financial business, and then it's no longer a secret.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32049	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. The positions of the HSU Club will be presented to us by our esteemed representative, Zeljko Schamper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32050	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The aim of this law is to enable and ensure the exercise of constitutional rights to access information to natural and legal persons through the openness and public action of the public authority and authorities. The law prescribes the principles of the right to access information, restrictions on the right to access information and the procedure for the exercise and protection of the right to access information. The right to access information shall include the right of users to seek and receive information, as well as the obligation of the public authority to allow access to the requested information, i.e. to publish the information independently of the requested request when such publication comes from the obligation of a specific law or other regulations. It is interesting to test the proportionality of the public interest to assess the proportionality between the reasons for providing access to information and the reasons for the restriction and to allow access to information if public interest prevails. The law of Article 10 now regulates the public authorities' obligations to publish all the necessary information from their jurisdiction, which has not been made available to citizens so far. According to Article 15, public authorities may restrict access to information if, for example, the information is classified by a degree of secrecy. But the concept of secrecy is a very flexible concept, the law regulates what is a business or professional secret. Of course, for example, it's a business secret recipe for Vegeta, but I'm not quite sure that the secret list of workers leaving the company with incentive severance even though I've recently received such an answer. I am sure that, for such a request, the owner of the information does not have to seek the opinion of the National Security Council Office. There are degrees of secrecy of classified information in the Data Securitisation Act: very secret, secret, confidential and limited. In view of the degree of threat to protected values, classified information from the defence, security and intelligence, external affairs, public security, criminal proceedings and science, technology, public finances and economies may be classified if the data are of security interest to the Republic of Croatia. In the data classification process, the data owner is obliged to establish a minimum degree of secrecy to ensure the protection of interests that could be compromised by unauthorized disclosure of that information. Where the classified information contains certain parts or annexes whose unauthorized detection does not endanger the values protected by the confidentiality law, such parts of the data shall not be marked by the degree of secrecy. I hope that this law will open the eyes of the public authorities that some requests from the user will not be unnecessaryly covered by a veil of secrets and provide real and up-to-date information to citizens or associations. I have an example. The Retirement Society is asking for its needs from HZMO for a list of pensioners of its city, and the answer is that the same request should be sent to the city itself, although it is not a list of pensioners with certain censors that would be needed possibly to pay off Christmas Day or Easter. We have heard more than once today in the debate that information is the constitutional right of citizens, and so far we have witnessed that citizens often remain without real information. Public authorities as information owners have not always provided information to citizens. Often, the provision of infrastructures is characterized as a secret, and I am of the opinion that this will continue to be a major problem in the implementation of this law. A key role in the implementation of this law will be given by the newly installed Commissioner for Information, who should inform and educate citizens about their right to information with the resolution of complaints and inspections. Citizens must know their rights to information and must not be victims of red tape. Often from citizens, especially pensioners, they are heard walking from room to room unnecessarily, from institution to institution. The real application of this law must be in the service of citizens and it is not enough for information to be found on websites, but public authorities must find a way for information to be available to every citizen and to our pensioners. And in conclusion, the Club of Representatives of HSU will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32051	I thank you, too. One notice, a deal on how to work. We still have three clubs and nine individual debates on this agenda. How it started with the replicas, and we have to do another agenda point today, at least. We'll do it without a break. It's the only way we can get there, so we don't stay here till 2:00 a.m. And now I call upon my colleague Sunchana Glavak to present to us the positions of the HDZ Club on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32052	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Every time we talk about the Law on the right to access information we repeat and say the same sentence and we all seem to agree with it, which is that there is a strong anti-corruption tool in front of us and it is our duty to realize the impartiality of information and the availability of information. But it's just a question of how we're going to do it. After the doubt in the first reading, in the final proposal of the Law on the right to access information Croatia will receive a new institution of Commissioners for Information. So, once again, I don't know why this independent body will now be said to be more effective in its work than the current Personal Data Protection Agency, and does this mean that the Personal Data Protection Agency has not been an independent body so far? The unquestionable fact is that the level of democratic standards can also be read through the availability of public authorities' information, however, only a legal solution will not be a guarantee that this will be effectively implemented. The law on access to information should make it possible for everyone to have access to information, however, since its first adoption and improvement over the years and the one we are talking about today and the life on the democratic scene in Croatia still 50% of citizens do not know that this law exists, and almost 60% of public authorities at lower levels allow themselves to ignore citizens' demands. The HDZ Club made several well-intentioned remarks in its first reading, as well as our representatives, and I am glad that the promoter has adopted some of them. For example, the final draft of the law determines the difference between the possession of information and the right to have that information. It was equally accepted by the applicant for an objection in the final draft of the law in a provision which provides for the right to reuse of the information that the public authority has no obligation to convert information from one form to another or to ensure that part of the information is used and has no obligation to renew certain information only for the purpose of re-use. Similarly, the obligation of the public authority to publish on the websites the unofficial consolidated texts of the regulations has been deleted. An objection relating to the regulation and method of calculating the fee for access to information has also been accepted, so the applicant says that the Commissioner, as an independent body, will set criteria for determining the amount of compensation and the way in which the compensation is charged. The bodies of the state administration must therefore get to know the public about doing business from their own circle and report their work either through means of public information, official messages, websites, brochures or in some other way that will be made available to the public. However, we also talked in our first reading on the application of information and communication technology that facilitates and speeds up the operation of the state administration but also improves coordination within the system of state administration, makes it easier to contact and when something is published on the websites, it is available to the widest circle of interested persons and that is actually information of public importance. In such a way of communication, I believe that the need for individual requests for access to information will be narrowed down in the future because a large amount of information will be available at any moment. And that's what we should be trying to do. In fact, however, there is no real interaction between citizens and institutions. The fact is that some public authorities still don't know the law enough or pretend they don't know it because it suits them for some other reason. And I repeat, it is much more dangerous than citizens not knowing that under that law they belong to a unit of regional, or regional self-government. So, only 4% of citizens know that this law applies to them, and that is officially from the report, that is, the campaign "I have the right to know" Transparency International Croatia. So, on a respectable sample of citizens. However, what is also the fact that some have understood the Law on the right to access information is completely wrong and that they often use it to solve personal matters, for their personal problems, thinking that by using this tool that is not intended to solve their personal or private unresolved problems. One of the areas where our public administration or public authorities are lagging behind is free access to information that is accessible or processed by computer. We talked about this and the government is obliged to publish information on websites in an easily searched manner in the final draft of the law in Article 10. However, I believe that this is a paradox because the bill published in some formats is not easily searched. So if you have scanned pages of documents, images, the only way to actually see them is to release that document through some optical recognition system and then it will only then deliver you text that will be easily searched. Therefore, all documents should actually be published in a form that allows automatic processing with the help of computers in all available formats. And I have to say that there are some documents you can't get to unless you have installed commercial applications. So you actually have to pay for the app. Additional problems of course arise when the application formats change and then you have to do it all over again. I consider this contrary to the principle of equality set out in Article 8 of the proposed Law on the right to access information. It would be very good, perhaps illusory to expect, but I say it would be very good if such data were available in the way that some EU countries have done, for example, the Government of Great Britain or Austria, you will then, in an easily searchable way, immediately in the interface learns the information you need and then it would be, in my opinion, easily searchable way, if we talked about it. What is actually happening in reality, while we are discussing the Commissioner yes or no, most will say, as so far as we have, that without why, you will say that for another new office, that for the new costs that have been put into this bill, that for the new institution and that for the establishment of an office of Commissioners that will set up internal building units for certain areas of work according to that type of work. So we'll just see what that applies to, it's so nice just packed up in article 39 in paragraph 2. I'm afraid we don't know how much that's going to be, I'm going back to what we talked about, it was a good parliamentary practice and during HDZ, that important officials agree, achieve consensus, and then they actually, we can say, were chosen by more than two-thirds majority. As for concerns about the implementation of this law, the question arises why, for example, we haven't used the whole last year to introduce citizens to the existence of the law. I think that the Commissioner alone is no solution and that the citizens will still not know that there is a Commissioner now, so far there has been an Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. According to all these studies, as well as 80% of respondents have never questioned and are actually most interested in funding projects from the budget, and that's what my predecessors were talking about, do we always think that something is covered by very secret? So we believe that this tool is good, but we leave doubt that the Commissioner will be an independent body, or an independent person, and that it will actually be in the service of our citizens. We are constantly calling for democratic rights, and then we go back to democracy, so we don't end up drowning in a sentence that only the government can take the perfect ink, can put it on perfect paper and eventually make that combination worthless, so that it doesn't happen to us like that with the Commissioner for Information. We have examples of how the elected lawyers are, how the elected committee to prevent conflicts of interest has been elected, and besides that, we have a commissioner on HRT, and we hear that he could soon be abolished, so let us all think about what we will vote on and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32053	Thank you. Now we'll listen to the replicas, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32054	Here's my dear colleague. I've been here 12 years. 12 years mayor, my phone, my cell phone is public. Many citizens get information from me too. To the city of Djakov, here last year thanks to the transparency of work. So, although there is no transparency without citizens themselves, it has not been received, one request for access to information has been received. One single request. And I stayed in your debt, you weren't here when you mentioned in one line, that conditional opinion of the revision. These conditional opinions sometimes come for purely prosaic reasons, you have a congregation of companies where you have to make a two-thirds majority decision and you can't make it. Like, for example. the capital increase of that company, e.g. introduction. Here in the Đakovska Vodavod, three municipalities rebel if the City of Đakovo finances in its municipal infrastructure, thereby increasing its core capital in society and you cannot implement it in the Commercial Court. And the review when she comes, she gives a conditional opinion, so don't do any illegal business or give the God of crime. But what I'm stressing, and I'm going to say now in my debate, many units of local self-government, not because they didn't want to implement, implement this law, but simply didn't have the resources in the budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32055	Thank you. The answer to the replica of the esteemed Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32056	I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32057	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vinkovic is the mayor, and he would like to stay and I understand that. A fellow Vinkovic and you yourself told the citizens not to ask, that's what I'm talking about, whether the citizens even know that they're leging through that law asking you something or they're going to get a cell phone and they're going to call you. So it can be questioned according to the law, and I can do so. What I'm saying is, some cities do it great, but look at some other cities, municipalities. They formally have a website, it's full of data for the first time, and when you look at it there are the same data that changed in the meantime, so you can't find any relevant data, or even the most banal phone number you need. So that's what I've been talking about, and that's one way to communicate, it's advanced technology, and that's how we're going to let the citizens know that they don't have correspondence with public authorities if we let them see all this transparently, but we're not going to solve the introduction of commissioners. Why does someone guarantee that it will be the Commissioner who will now force some city of xy to publish everything on its websites. That's what I was talking about, and as far as the election is concerned, the stage is political here, so we'll talk about it more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32058	Second replica, the esteemed Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32059	Dear Mr. Vice President, in the first sentence of her sentence, she gave a rather dreary finding regarding this law, that this is a powerful anti-corruption tool. I could agree that it's a powerful democratic tool but let's not use such words because it would turn out that everything that's done in public authorities and corruption. And as for whether the citizens know? All decisions from the Parliament are public and so is this law, and so is the role of NGOs that you mentioned somewhere. It's the one to tell citizens that they have this tool and that they can use it, so I'd say the role of the media in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32060	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32061	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't know what my colleague Komadina's problem is, so that's what the promoter said. I repeated a sentence that we all say when we talk about this law, not just today in our first reading, a few years ago. In the first time this law was passed. Besides, that sentence stands in all strategies. When we talk about this law, all the strategies that talk about anti-corruption tools, so I don't see what the problem is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32062	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Zoran Vinkovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32063	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I'll start like this and I'll end up there with what I wanted to say in the replica. The HDSSB club will support this law. Someone said this is a week of good laws and then it would be good to maybe interrupt today's session after this law because it goes very quickly to the minimum wage law, so it won't be a very good law because it limits to 2984.78 kuna gross, which if you refuse all those contributions, taxes and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32064	My colleague Vinkovic, I am obliged to warn you, we are now discussing a completely 15-year-old law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32065	The right to access information is a general human right. So I'm informing the citizens that the law is being prepared under which the gross minimum wage will be 2984.78 kuna. Thus, this general human right, the right to access information, Mr Vice-President, belongs to a third generation of human rights whose development can follow for the last 30-40 years and is related to the idea that the necessary component of democracy is the ability to see into the work of the authorities of the state, local, regional authorities and all levels of government because the public has the right to know. And for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, this law should rightly be given access to information. What does that mean exactly? You see, I'm sticking to the subject only you have to be a little restrained in your vice-presidential observations. The right to access information is the right of a natural and legal person to seek, obtain information as well as the obligations of the public authority to allow access to the requested information. Ensuring access to information is based on the following principles. Therefore, any information they possess, hold or monitor public authorities must be made available to the public to the interested authorities so as to call them the authorities of that right, or natural and legal persons, citizens, companies that have the right to know whether those bodies have, possess or monitor the requested information. So the issue of monitoring the requested information is important. The following principle is completeness and accuracy of information. Therefore, the information provided by the public authorities must be complete and accurate. Because it often happens that many public authorities provide false information for which no responsibility has ever been borne. The next principle is equality. The right to access information belongs to all the powers of that right, to all, not to individuals, and under equal conditions and to the authority of the public authority shall not place any authority of that right, and I shall now appoint citizens and legal and natural persons to the powers of that right to a more favourable position. The following important principle is the principle of availability of information. So a citizen, a natural and legal person has the right to publicly present information. So as a representative and as a citizen, I have the right to say how much minimum wage is proposed and how this week here are good laws in the Croatian Parliament to end. If we are going to be objective, Croatia has so far met very few of these principles and these transparency criteria. We have had the Law on Access to Information so far, and it can be said that certain documents, information, data have never really been available. And even today, when it is legitimately sought, it is not just a question of HRT, and I am also interested if, as representatives, we had to, even under the Law to prevent conflicts of interest, some of us even had those penalties if you didn't publish that card, and I'm also interested in how much the director of HRT now has the salary of all his receipts and the kind of property card. After all, this Assembly gave him some confidence. But here I will start with the official website of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which I have carefully reviewed and on the cover of the website I have not seen anywhere that link for the 2013 budget. On this page there are all of our negotiating chapters, Facebook, Twitter and even up to that last lunch or green Thursday as some ministers have made proposals but there is no state budget. True, one who uses the Internet can put a budget into the search engine and get to it. But the objectively most important document, because the budget is the work programme of this government is not on the government's pages. Now, if I were informically illiterate and I had no intention of seeking a state budget on the website of the Ministry of Finance or by searching the Internet, I might conclude that the work of this government in relation to this law is non-transparent. So what's the fact that various institutions use different technologies, forms to distribute information but these data are not unique. In short, if we look at the databases that are reportedly public, we could, for example, take a look at the databases. notice that the Register of the Trade Court is searching only for two criteria, which would mean that you have to have the correct information to eventually obtain confirmation that the requested information is correct. And there's certainly no transparency, no access to information. I would also like someone to respond to how many thousands of individual bodies of gray public administrations, self-government, including all institutions, agencies of all other legal entities that manage public money and resources in one way or another, exist in Croatia and how much for them it is actually possible to cover this law in such a way as to ensure that citizens truly have a minimum of transparency and openness guaranteed by this law. Certain doubts stemming from this law, and I am free to say that transparency does not interfere with laws but rather something else, which is a lack of fundamental democratic values in this society and that is a fact. But certain doubts stem from this law. I hope the promoter can spot it anyway. In Article 5, public authorities are also municipalities. So many municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and I'll stick to the subject again thanks to this great "decentralisation" no longer even have to pay the Commissioner, not to talk about the deputy, not to talk about everything that the municipality as a local self-government would have to meet with citizens. And they don't even have employees in the municipality as a body of local self-government, but certain financial jobs are done by companies, agencies, they have to have it under this law, and they won't be able to finance it, and believe it today except in humanitarian associations in sports associations, volunteering is long ago and volunteering is a volunteering service for firemen is that someone else doesn't get angry, volunteering has long forgotten. So many units of local self-government primarily think of municipalities will not be able to meet this condition and have this information officer. As regards the existing law, therefore, many units of local self-government and many units of local self-government do not exist local sheriffs, marshals, Napoleons or I do not know what they are already called but responsible people who are doing their job, who have so far had information officers, but were primarily information officials themselves and have had transparency in their work since the announcement of the budget, since the publication of all important documents that are relevant to citizens in a certain local self-government, that I do not praise myself. After all, every mayor, every mayor, every mayor and every politician and every parliamentary representative, and also the minister must be available at any time to the same citizens for whom he was elected who gave him confidence whether they voted for him or not. I believe from experience that the Commissioner should be appointed from the professional service order, either the Parliament or the Government or the Ministry. Whether it is through a public tender, including his entire office, because I believe that this would result in and avoid suspicions that one of the commissioners, members of the office, would be a party like him. I believe that in all these institutions of the state administration, local, regional self-government we have enough quality personnel. The question which is questionable, and is repeated and related to the right to access information is not only about this restriction of the right to access information but is about the Data Protection Act, so often you can't come to the data which has been called for precisely the reason why someone is admitted to a particular job and why someone isn't admitted to a particular job. To conclude, there is no transparency without the responsible public authority of the individuals responsible in that government, but there is also no transparency without citizens. And this is an invitation for citizens, not their right to exclude them, but their obligation to create transparency in the Republic of Croatia, to create and develop democracy in the Republic of Croatia, and this is an invitation that in the largest number, no matter what policy they have, politicians go to local elections, because we cannot happen in every election, and this is also about this law, we have fewer and fewer citizens who are getting worse and worse living in Croatia and who are telling us that we are not doing a good job globally. Thank you. You can see I stuck to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32066	You did it, I admit, you managed to stick to the subject. We have two replicas. First respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32067	Thank you very much, Vice President. In your debate, you told your colleague Vinkovic that at one point, the public authorities did not give complete information, and often they gave distorted information, so no one is responsible for it. What's the information, I looked at the expert explanation of what's information. This is the result of processing, manipulation and data organisation in a way that adds knowledge to the recipient. There's plenty of space to be done that way and based on this law. The information you ask for when you apply its professional quality may turn out exactly that way. Here's an example. A case of a plane to be purchased by the government, which recently appeared in the media worth about 60 million kuna. It lasted one day, the information was given to the media and what we have at the end of the day, we have a suggestion on an information show that says it's not bad, that plane really needs it because it's not only for state officials, it can serve for other purposes. However, where the government was wrong, it misrepresented that information to the public, had poor communication or communication strategy with the public, and dropped out of the plane. That's the problem that arises when we talk about information, because there's that saying it's not true what you said but the truth is what the listener understood and, of course, here and then the Commissioner comes along with his office. So whatever you bring me today and whatever you tell me, that commissioner will have one exclusive and the power given to him by the Parliament to apply what he writes about the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32068	Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32069	You see, an esteemed colleague, he's got the exact information tied to the plane, he's a helicopter in that old Croatian, he's paid for some 90 thousand kuna study, as far as I can remember. Whether or not someone has given up on that purchase I do not know because it is not so transparently said because if you pay tens of thousands of kuna for a study on the purchase of a new aircraft then where there is smoke, there is fire. I'm not getting into how old this plane is, what he served everything during the former government, but the fact that he used to help the citizens. But I repeat what is most important in all of this, Commissioner, staff of that office, inspectors must be people who are already working in the state administration. They can't be party-like, that would be the most devastating thing. And basically I would say action, I hope you know what an action is, so a claim that is not questionable unlike the theorems that you can perform, is that there is no transparency without citizens and probably that Newton didn't fall that apple on his head today probably wouldn't talk about transparency either.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32070	Thank you very much. A new replica follows, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32071	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So this fellow Vinkovic has been touched by certain topics that talk about the choice of commissioners and his need for this law. The choice of Commissioners is defined in Article 36 and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, which, with the previous agreement of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, sets out a proposal of at least 2 candidates. One and the other committee have 13 members, among these 13 members, 8 members are members of the ruling coalition and you know what choice will be? The candidate who corresponds to the ruling coalition. On the transparency of this Commissioner for Information, we can only say what will come from these figures that I have said and prevailed on these committees that bring their final court and Croatian Parliament, which will ultimately confirm most of the votes. If we were to agree as they asked before that the two-thirds majority as we heard it was not the Constitution for these organic laws and fines, but democratically to show such a body which certainly means a lot in Croatian society and which will have a great responsibility to be chosen from all MPs, and not from the ruling majority would be the most transparent. When we talk about the establishment of the Commissioner's Office, there are also doubts as to how many of these employees will be, given that it is defined that administrative and technical tasks for the work of the Commissioner's Office will be carried out by the Personal Data Protection Agency. He has the right to a Rules of Procedure that will bring in the Croatian Parliament to arrange how many employees there will be, they are not defined now. Costs when talking about the projected funds for the new leader, i.e. A civil servant like those who will work in the office will also have the status of a civil servant I think Only one more word if you allow [[Intruder Stazic: Time's up.]] In order to implement this law, additional resources should be provided in the state budget. [[Stazić: So watch the rules apply to you as well as to everyone else.]] We don't know how much or what. Therefore, even this law does not speak transparently about what it will be and how many employees it will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32072	Comrade Djakic, the rules apply to you as well as to all other MPs. If you don't respect them, you don't insult me, you insult all these colleagues here. Thank you very much. They will respond to the replica, respected Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32073	You see, dear colleague Djakic, I was just talking about it by saying that there is practically no new employment, and I believe that indeed in the bodies of the state administration we have enough professional staff to handle this job. Well, we have so many agencies that we don't even know what they're for. And as for these ratios and infatuations, the ratio on boards, it wasn't different in those eight years, hands on heart. So always, but the fact that we all have to rise above it and first of all provide a bar on this law not similarity but expertise, ensure really transparency and involve the citizens themselves. I've been mayor for 12 years, and I'm the headmaster except for one 2001 head of staff who's retired are not party people, they're not party alike, they're professional, professional. And it never occurred to me even though there was pressure to hire party members or I don't know who. I can't think of that. And that's the way to act first. To give citizens the right to information but also to include them in the process and ultimately in Croatia's democracy because at this point we are not in the right sense of that word enough for a democratic country not to pull me by the tongue.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32074	Now we'll hear the attitudes of the SDSS club. They will be presented by the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32075	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister of Administration with my associates, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law on the right to access information is a law which we as a club and as a party will support. The important thing today is information, today that timely information in a particular sphere of social life makes capital and capital advantage, it is a strategic thing, but it is for the majority of citizens and fundamental human rights. There are two groups of arguments for which we will support this legislative proposal. First, there are some general standard reasons. Generally, through this law and through the institutes defined in this law, the institutes of fundamental human rights should be strengthened. The right to have information available to public authorities is one of the fundamental human rights. The principle of transparency is one of the basic principles in the fight against corruption. That's already been talked about here, and I'm not going to elaborate on that right now. In addition, the right to access information is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and its Article 38, where it is cited, guarantees the right to access information owned by public authorities. It also defines a restriction on the right to access information, and it is said that these restrictions must be proportionate to the nature of the need for a restriction in each case. So here we're talking about exemplar situations that limit the right to access information. The aim of the law should therefore be to enable and ensure the right to access information to natural and legal persons through the openness and public functioning of public authorities. The information, according to us, belongs to all citizens. They are somehow citizens' property and they need first and foremost to use the citizens. Let me just say here that the adoption of the new Law on the right to access information is also one of the remaining obligations in Croatia's negotiations with the EU. The law falls into the so-called so-called law. The anti-corruption package and one of the 10 points in the European Commission's comprehensive progress report on Croatia's pre-accession commitments. The other reasons why we will support this law are some of our experiences and experiences of the people they met on the ground. We had a problem with getting information, which is from existential, and sometimes the vitalities of the citizens who spoke to us. So we have cases to say list of housing priorities and purchases of apartments could not be made available to users of these categories. Even on the question of getting that information, they didn't get it. Competitions for employment, application of Article 22 The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, when a candidate is denied, cannot obtain insight into the election process, because the services which have conducted the procedure and who are obliged to give it, do not provide that information. Local self-government units did not receive feedback on the rejected projects they applied to, could not have been able to understand the reasons, therefore in the documentation to see the reasons why their projects were rejected. In the Ministry of the Interior we had a period of eradicating the records from the residence of a large number of people in a certain space and without information from the parties on the reasons why they were deleted from the Ministry of the Interior records, why they were denied these fundamental rights to documents, etc. Despite their request for such information, they did. We have cases of changes in the registration of land-books without informing citizens of many properties have been entered by the state as, the Republic of Croatia as property and the users have not been informed and have not been able to obtain quality information or information as to why it was done. Not to say that it would be logical to instruct, or to give instructions on some kind of legal remedy to these people how to remove such a lack. So these are the reasons, I could list them here more, but we think that, if these few equative examples were enough reasons to seriously think about this legislative proposal that is trying to sort of eliminate the shortcomings that I was talking about. On the legal text itself, I will say that, that the important amendments set out in the final proposal of the law on the relationship to the applicable law are related to the following, so according to our view of the matter, that is, to compliance with European standards above all. We believe that this legislative proposal makes it clear that the concept of public authority and its obligations in the application of the law are clearly defined, Article 10 is taxed at 15 points. We also think that this legislative proposal makes it clear that the concept of information is very important to know how to distinguish, so that they can distinguish some categories of information available to citizens. There has been a lot of talk here, as the paper introduces the commissioner as an independent body for the protection of the right to access information. We experience it first and foremost as a new and basic tool for implementing this law. He has defined powers, clearly defined powers as well as should be, he is primarily an advisory body, his role is and supervisory, he will also form inspection supervision as some kind of extended arm and control mechanism and he also has breaking powers. It is especially important for us to be elected by the Croatian Parliament, so we all choose it, so in one quality debate we will be able to offer arguments for and against individuals who are running for this serious function. It is perfectly normal that most people will have their own proposals, and nothing unusual is it, therefore, comments on that it will be and the majority candidate is something that implies the logic of parliamentary democracy, or the majority. It reports to the Parliament, which is very important because we think that through this report to the Parliament, the appearance of this House, the apparition of facts, the advantages, the disadvantages, the experience, so one subordination, the subordination of the control of this mechanism between the Parliament and that body will be established. And we think it's very good that it's a public perception, one public perception of his responsibility for the conduct of this procedure will be created. This is, therefore, the Commissioner as an independent body and therefore a dilemma that constantly stretches whether the high concentration of power in that function is, if all of this is taken into account above, who will choose it, that he will submit reports on his work here, that he will point to some irregularities and that he will be publicly responsible. So this dilemma of too much power has been removed in this way. There are also good solutions in the law where public authorities are imposed to publish draft laws and other acts on the website, which has so far been in many cases a lack, are listed, long-term deadlines are prescribed in favour of the applicant, which in every case the parties and users of this information benefit from, the concept of the central catalogue of official documents of the Republic of Croatia is introduced, which is also a good quality thing for us, especially for those who use it and who need that information. They're being arranged. Violent provisions have been arranged with high sentences to deny information. We think that this is good and that these very high penalties as some kind of repressive measure will affect the quality of the basic idea of this legal text. We have one comment on Article 23(2), it is said that the public authority does not make a decision on the request or says when it does not make a decision in the request, and it is said in paragraph 2 when it informs the user that the same information has already been obtained and has not expired 90 days from the submission of the previous application. We think that these 90 days should be longer because I'm afraid of the abuse that someone will be short-term again and again by giving the same information every three months so that they will abuse it. We think that deadline should be from 6-12 months, and then this restriction makes some sense. In conclusion, we think that these really form new services but they are also needed to systematically control the flow of information and, of course, that without a serious service being formed, you cannot seriously run a business but it must not be bureaucratized and of course that the topic of debate is always money. In this matter, we estimate that what we're doing is more beneficial than the costs that it's going to cost. We think this law will contribute to a more quality flow of information, to greater satisfaction for people and users of this information, and we will support this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32076	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate by clubs and we move on to an individual debate on the duration of ten minutes. I give my word to my esteemed colleague, Zlatko Komadini.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32077	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I would like to say that I support the adoption of this law in accordance with the position of the club, but not for the reasons that I have heard most of you here, including the motionary in part. So not for reasons of transparent and corrupt work of the body of the public authority. Not for this reason, but for the reason that this law will enable citizens and legal persons to see into the work of the public authority, which will strengthen democratic trust or trust in democratic institutions in a democratic way and will actually enable the prevention of possible forms of corruption and non-transparentity. That's why I told Mrs. Suncani Glavak earlier that it was not a good message to send a message to the public that bodies of public authorities work corruptly and not transparently. It is simply not true and exactly the difference in discussions between colleagues and colleagues who have been on top of the public authorities and those who are not. You can just see it here and hear it. And I understand, of course, a whole part of those who discuss based on perception because other data and knowledge did not have or did not have and the perception is generally obtained based on a media image of the work of the public authority and this perception in Croatia is bad. That's why it's bad. I will say just one example of the fine media, and there are many more, and that many examples are actually very little in percentage of the general public government and very little in the total spending of budgetary and public funds. For example. It would be good to see some 150 billion public money from the state budget of local and county budgets, so if added to the public sector in terms of public enterprises, how legal it is, how affected by corruption activities. I'm confident below 1%. And we have a perception that that 1% is 100% and that's not true. It's not 100, it's a lot more than just perception. That's why I'm saying this law needs to be passed, but we must also be aware that we must both prevent and abuse under this law. And under this law there may be abuses. The simple thing is that you either have a responsibility in public business or you don't have one. No law will prevent anyone who wants to be irresponsible or not to say no transparently or to say corruptly act that way. No law will stop him. And so it has always been in life and in practice and in any activity and not just in the public business. I'll tell you a few examples in particular I've grown over these ten years in creating transparency of public sector work in the part where I was present from the fact that when the websites were being introduced to this day when it's a good day for everyone, from social networks, that work is primarily public if we look at units of local and regional self-government, the sessions are public, it's over three hundred for example. Points of Assembly on various cities, municipalities, counties based on annual levels, decisions, conclusions, reports, etc., over a thousand in colleges, all of this is followed by the media, followed by journalists, all of this is public, published on websites, there are press conferences, and all of this can be seen together and looked at these documents if someone thinks that it is possibly wrong with her. In addition, public authorities have legal oversight. The state audit is an annual obligation to go through all examples for the county is a lot of obligations per year for other major institutions as well. Also, the find of the State Audit goes to the Ministry of State and goes to the State Attorney's Office which can and must by the nature of its work, let's call each suspect shop to further examine and view, and take away the cariole paper and documents during that viewing, I at least had that practice, and if you don't think I had a bad one, over 50% were unconditional reviews, there were some conditional ones, but none were rejected. Now, what I want to say is where is the most public interest, but you know which public? In fact, interested or not to say unsatisfactory or damaged to the public. That's usually the practice. It's about tendering for employment, and it's about public procurement. Whoever loses is wrong, complains and suspects it's set up. Anyone who hasn't received suspicions that someone's been admitted by similarity and that's always the case. And I'll tell you what I don't think is right and I've submitted one amendment here, it's not big, it's very small, but it's important. It is that I am not a supporter of the internal documents of a particular institution concerning some internal processes being copied, multiplied, shared in the media and walked in the streets. Everyone has the right to come to see a personal insight done. That's why I gave the amendment there to be or not, so I'll give you an example, for example. The media is often looking for someone to report to the public tender for the head. I've never put it in the media, nor will I. We'll give you who's chosen. And we only gave those we asked in writing with the returnee whether they agreed to publish their name in public. Well, it's the protection of private data, and besides, these people are working somewhere. He could lose his job at that firm where he works. I don't think that's the way to play with these people. I didn't learn it that way. It's the same for you in public procurement to copy all offers and deliver God and ask where everything is. With the fact that I'm also going into practice so that all those who ask don't usually come into the house and carry out personal insights, and they have a right. As for what I've heard from some colleagues and colleagues of conflict of interest or property cards of officials. I must admit that this law is not clear to me at all in one part, and that is part of the fact that it is publicly available on the Internet. I guess the purpose of the property card is that the commission determines yours, any property at the beginning of the term of office and at the end of the term of office. And if you have a disproportionate that you can't cover with incomes, report to the IRS and the competent state authorities and institutions because it means you've blacked out what you'd say. And this way, with your family and you enjoy all the Croatian public whether or not you have, I don't think I'm sure that was the point. By introducing far more public into something other than cities, municipalities, counties, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Parliament, there are at least such phenomena, but in public enterprises and legal persons owned by the public sector. And where the services are, the works where the private sector contracts are concluded there is actually the possibility of what some of you were talking about. There's so much on my side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32078	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to expose you to replicas. First respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32079	Thank you very much. My colleague Komadin, you are in the debate, I support a large part of your debate, especially in the part of the fact that the information you are looking for is not walking down the street. However, you cited an example of the selection of the head of the county for certain bodies. You, on a concrete request, will not respond to the press memo, but then we come to the space of manipulation and other channels all those who end up in the competition before the media competition, know who will be elected in advance, but determine from which party they come from. It becomes a public policy, they walk information on the street, and the result of such information is that the moment the choice was made that you did not want to write, the media had written it 10 days earlier. That's the problem we're facing. And we can also rely on secrets and secret contracts that are most often sought especially in terms of concession contracts that have built highways etc. They are classified as secrets, but the other part is not to talk about judicial processes that are under way, etc. who started on such information allow what we have today in our country's media space, which has been contaminated by largely and defamation and judgments in advance and all others, especially that picture that we already know in advance who will be selected regardless of the public tender. Unfortunately, this law, no matter how good it is, will not be resolved, and neither will this Commissioner for Information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32080	The replica matches my colleague Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32081	Speaking of commissioners, I'd like to refer you to reading the "8th Commissioner" book there are some pretty formulas. What you said was leaking information. It's always been and will be, unfortunately, you can't stop reporting to the service. And you don't know when it's from who. And what you said I agree with you for public companies and part of the contract that especially those concerning high and high values or public welfare management etc. that it must be made available to the public without further delay.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32082	Second Replicated representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32083	You've pointed out something that no one has pointed out so far, and I think it's very important, and that's not only the problem of providing information that we hope this law will try to improve this giving, but also the publication of information. What we had so far unfortunately, that what was supposed to be public was secret, and what had to be in every normal and orderly country must be a secret it was public, but now it's the subject of many proceedings so I wouldn't do it anymore. But the problem is where manipulation and even the truth abuse of it is one big problem. That is why many of those who have nothing to hide are afraid of the public, because often in the media the truth and the lie experience the same fate, if not the truth even worse. The truth often gets even more suspicious. The truth makes fun of her. She's the one we've made fun of. A person like that at the end of the day if there's nothing to lose looks like a loser because it opens up, because it says everything because it says what it thinks. That's our big problem. But that's why he's looking forward to having a quick discussion here about the Media Act because, as Professor Kregar put it, you've been particularly demanding that the information belongs to the citizens. These same citizens, regardless of their ownership of the media, have the right to know that truth, and we now have no interest in ownership at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32084	The replica matches my colleague Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32085	I thank my fellow Anticevic. I think that's where my colleague underlines exactly the part that needs to be solved, to standardize abuses because you said exactly, what you shouldn't be is, and what you should be most often isn't. But it's a matter of irresponsible behavior in the system and I'm going to tell you an example, but now something small seems to be sanctioned. For example, you are free to hang on to the portal of any public message and anonymously insult as much as you want, whoever you want and no one at all. So there are these examples.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32086	And the third replica, the esteemed representative of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32087	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Komadina, you spoke here and about something that is not a direct topic, but it is also related to these transparency problems, so transparency as an anti-corruption asset, which is the property cards of the officials and I would agree in many ways in your debate and that they mainly served as gossip for the front pages, etc., and there was no serious treatment of this in the possible identification and prevention of conflicts of interest. But here you see, you said that this commission should then establish a disproportionateity but it is your party that seems to me or someone from your party has requested a verification of the constitutionality of the jurisdiction to look into the bank account. So they won't be able to verify the disproportionateness of your assets and what you could have earned because you can't report it, and that commission will by no means be able to verify it. You can have no idea how much in the bank account, it won't be possible to check. If you bought for 100,000 euros, for example, a small apartment, then it will be in your land books and it will be verifiable, but if you have, for example, at the bank, 500 thousand euros that no one will ever be able to verify and you will be able to deny it and will not be able to compare your income and your property to the commission. I don't know who was afraid of it, why it should be prevented, and why it should be worth a bank secret to us and why we wouldn't voluntarily give it up so the commission could check it out, so we could be on a public test. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32088	And this replica corresponds to Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32089	Well, it's about the possible abuse of such data again, it's about the banking secret. That's the truth that's worth discussing. I personally wrote that part in the property card, but many colleagues and colleagues aren't as far as I know. But I repeat what I said, hear we live in one such world which is not very pleasant in some segments and so I say that the question of privacy is one part of the story, and the question of the public... is another and not all that is actually on the mind that it is also on the road. There are ways to sanction this and how these cards should be handled and information at all, especially in abuse. That's why I'm saying it, but it's a special subject, which you said yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32090	We're continuing an individual debate, so I'm calling my colleague Miral Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32091	Thank you, Vice President. Well, at the very beginning, I would like to say that I have been very pleased to read this Final Bill on the right to access information because now almost 7 years since my colleague Shime Lucin and the SDP club first proposed the introduction of an information commissioner in terms of strengthening the right to access information as a democratic and civilizational gain, we finally get the Commissioner. I am sure that the institutions of the Commissioner for Information as a second-degree independent body of its own, i.e. the Ombudsman for information elected by the Croatian Parliament, will contribute to making public authorities significantly more serious about the implementation of this extremely important law on raising the transparency of governance, in particular the availability of public money, and thus curbing corruption. Although the current Law on the right to access information from 2003, which was low-level and corrected in 2010, was of quality, in its implementation, there was a problem precisely because control of the implementation was carried out by one public authority rather than by an independent commissioner who corresponds to the Parliament. As a result, the law has served more pro-formas to prove that Croatia also has this instrument of control over the government as a decoration of democracy, not as a real lever for control of the government. As a result, it has often occurred that public authorities do not respond to requests for access to information, even after the complaint to the second-degree body, nothing has happened. I hope that this unacceptable situation will change because we are now introducing the Commissioner, or drastically correcting it. In addition to the control and supervision of the implementation of this law, I expect the Commissioner to work proactively on the education and training of information officers in public authorities because they and they are rarely insufficiently familiar with their obligations or are not motivated enough to force public authorities to respect this law consistently. I also expect the Commissioners to have a proactive action aimed at public education on the right to access information, and in this sense I expect the future Commissioner to initiate a creative campaign that will inform the Croatian public and educate the existence of this law and this right. Why do I think the Commissioner will do this task better than the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and the Central State Administration Office, or the Ministry of Administration? From the simple fact that this law strengthens the powers of the Commissioner not only through the frequently mentioned test of proportionality of public interest but also through the introduction of inspection supervision and the possibility of an infringement procedure. In other words, this law puts a beating in the hands of the commissioners, and the threat of beatings is very often the best tool to prevent possible violations of the law. Such a possibility of repression becomes real, concrete and tangible, so the public authorities will now think little about whether or not they will be deafened to requests for access to information. Although education is necessary for human psychology, unfortunately education itself is not enough, and best prevention is often just an effective repression and I expect the future commissioner to use this effective repression. I also welcome the provision which correctly and unequivocally states what information public authorities are obliged to publish on their websites, and it is also good that this law defines the plan of the body of the public authority in a way that leaves no doubt as to who is obliged to apply the law. And at the very end of the presentation, I would like to commend the Ministry of Administration and Minister Bauk for having implemented the policy by this law and made a promise from the campaign and the previous mandate when the SDP was in opposition, and the future commissioner we will choose in the Croatian Parliament I want a lot of success in the work in the public interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32092	Thank you. Now it's time for the esteemed representative, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32093	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the thing, unlike my colleague Komadina, I really think that the law on the right to access information is an anti-corruption law and a powerful anti-corruption tool. Why? Because it ensures transparency in the work of the public authorities, and transparency is one of the preconditions for preventing corruption. So, in the entire fight against corruption or preventing corruption, the procession of already committed corruption is actually the end of the story. What we need to do is to prevent it. Prevention is primarily the availability of information, the public work of the public authority. Normally, for this reason, I think that this law should be passed to be of quality, to enable citizens to have their constitutional right fully because the last constitutional changes are the right to access information raised to the level of constitutional law, so that they are allowed to do so in full and in fact. Does this law that is before us make it possible? I'm not sure, and that's why I don't think I'm gonna support him. Mostly for the reason here, I'm going to look back at a few changes from first to second reading. I am pleased that the motioner adopted a series of remarks from the debate in the first reading. What I am not pleased with, but this is what the Legislative Committee has proposed, so the article 15 actually extends the possibility of limiting access to information. Therefore, on a proposal from the Legislative Committee other than the reasons why access can be limited, so if information is classified, if business, professional secret, tax secret, etc., it is complemented by one point that says in other cases the law. The point of this law is to provide citizens with information and to tax this law when it can be limited and when it goes to a test of public interest. However, we are now introducing a provision whenever it is determined by other laws which we have opened and the possibility that each or a few or a bunch of special laws declares that some information will be inaccessible. And here I have warned, I believe that the Proposer will accept it, that if that provision remains, then it must also be in Article 16 which speaks of the conduct of a test of public interest by the public authority to include that point because otherwise it would be absent and the priority would be inaccessible to that information. There was a lot of talk whether it could limit access to information in case of business or professional secrecy, whether it was too wide or not, mainly for public funds users and the state budget. But here we find an exit in Article 16 that says that the information on the availability of public funds is available to the public without conducting a test of public interest unless, of course, they are classified data. So, so much for that. I am absolutely against these restrictions being so widespread and so widely interpreted and that they can be prescribed by any special law. As far as the independent body itself is concerned, which will exercise control over this law and decide at all as a second-degree body, we have not received any reasoned answers why would a new official of the state, so a brand-new office, be more effective at this than an existing agency? Namely, as you know, a major shift has been made when it seems to me to be changes from 2010 for the first time as a secondary body and a body to monitor the implementation of the Law on the right to access information established by a body outside those bodies which decide on the provision of information which is, in this case, an independent Personal Data Protection Agency. This was about the choice of the Commissioner as provided for by this law. Of course, it would be good for such a state official who wishes to have great powers is not to be powerful, but it will be legitimately powerful because this law will give him powers, so that it really would not be desirable to discuss it widely and to be elected in the Croatian Assembly by consensus. But in order to do so, first of all, to work on committees, it is necessary to achieve that agreement. Until now, in this House's term, we have very bad experience in the elections, the committees, which propose the election of these persons, here I mention the commission of conflict of interest and defence attorneys, are almost not, not over but absolutely not discussed, but joined the vote, and then depending on the number of votes of a particular political option, it was quite autonomously chosen and presented to the Parliament for the vote. It's the political majority again. I think it is not good and that this practice should be changed as democratic, good, parliamentary practice has been in the past term. I will refer to the conditions for selecting Commissioners, re-determining one condition, so says a prominent expert with a recognised ethical and professional reputation and experience in protecting the protection of human rights, freedom of the media, the development of democracy, that is something that is immeasurable, that is something you will never be able to determine if it is a legal obligation that he has, the question is how will be determined. Again, I point out the debate on the board in the case of a public defender, a mere lawyer, so where some candidates are said to have not reached a certain level, and then later on, others are also said to be good without any argument. So this is a condition that is objectively immeasurable. The article 38 on discharge of commissioners says that it will be resolved if it is prevented from performing its duties for more than 6 months. I'm asking the question of who's going to be acting on that duty for six months, if he's prevented from performing his duties so he doesn't have six months, he doesn't have a deputy, he's got some kind of office, but, of course, the clerks in the office can't do the job of the commissioner. Does this mean that this country will be six months without commissioners because first it will have to be gone for six months, and then it will only decide on its resolution. I don't think that's absolutely worked out. It continues to be said in the explanation, and we heard here and in the debate that this commissioner will not cost anything, it is impossible not to cost, so it will cost, it is now the promoter and admitted, because in the first draft of the law it was that unnecessary funds were in the budget. Now he says, "It will be necessary to secure funds in the state budget." How much and when this law will take effect for 8 days, if the deadlines for election are 60 or 90 days, then the question is, where are these funds, how much are they, this is the first law that so questionable says only that something will be necessary to ensure, without saying the opposite obligation to how much money it is and whether there is or not it is in the state budget. Whether it will go into the budget rebalance, how that money will be provided, and it is said here that the Commissioner has an office as a professional service, he is setting up a set-up unit, so there will be a few more people there for these construction units, it will certainly cost, and it will cost all the material costs around it. And now he says that administrative and technical affairs for office purposes will be carried out by the agency. It's hard to imagine that the office has, an office and some design units, and then they're going to run for administrative work at some other agency and who's going to be the boss there. The commissioner will be the head of his office, and what about these administrative affairs remains unresolved and I warn of another issue I spoke about in the first reading, there has been no response and hearing, but I am warning of violations. High penalties have been prevented if a public authority or someone who is in debt under this law has not given information, which is fine, penalties have also been prevented for those who destroy information, but the fine for a person who abuses the information obtained is inappropriately small in my opinion. Therefore, if it is necessary to punish someone for not giving information, it should also be punished for those who misused it, and the ratio of punishment is one to twenty in favour of those who made it impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32094	Thank you. We've got two replicas on this exhibit. They'll be replicating their colleague Zlatko Komadin first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32095	Well, Mrs. Lovrin, I thank you for supporting my discussion. And I'm replicating it because you said unlike your colleague Komadina, so you said it further. So I quote what my colleague Komadin said, i.e. I said, "I'm in favor of this law."I said this first, but not because of the non-transparent and corrupt work of the public authority, but because of the fact that citizens and legal persons see in the work of the public authority, which will strengthen confidence in democratic institutions and increase the prevention of corruption and non-transparency. That's exactly what you said, prevention against corruption and non-transparentity, etc. And as for this commissioner, I wish him all the best. If only I could see this one commissioner walled up in complaints from those who are seeking information, which one, with which qualifications and predispositions, curricula or working experience, should be. Maybe it'd be best if I had an example. only primary school and if it had never worked in state bodies or in cities or in municipalities it was so burdened with nothing and then you could freely decide as a real national tribunal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32096	The replica matches the esteemed Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32097	Thank you. I don't know a colleague of the Comadins because you might already know who it will be, and then you're arguing like that, that's possible, but here you are saying that not for reasons of non-transparent and corrupt work of the body of the public authority. I did not say that this is a tool against corruption of public authority, not rather than an anti-corruption tool, so the first and basic thing to fight corruption is transparency or clarity, or the public of the work of those who have public funds, so I did not say that it was corrupt but that this tool would not let God become such or that it would not become a general phenomenon.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32098	Second replica, the esteemed representative of Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32099	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lovrin, I agree mainly with your debate and I would like to refer to the detail in which you are talking about it if it is not clear in the law, or explained what it is guaranteed that the Commissioner as a person who needs to worry about the right to access information will do so and in a transparent independent way other than being elected in this house. Whether a data protection agency which is also an independent institution could not do the same in a transparent and independent manner. I'm going to touch something that's said here it's like talking about a animal and hunter society, that they both have something to do with animals. I think they also have that they both care about, so both institutions care about animals but in each way. I even dare say if the real hunters are better. And I will only mention that the Data Protection Agency should publish data on the Defence Register, so it is called and should take care of the protection of personal data. So it violates the Constitution with an explanation that I do not know which countries can drink water and hence any individual who is in that register is deprived of the right to give their consent, whether or not its data, will be published in the Register. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32100	Replication response, colleague Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32101	Thank you very much. Well, that's what my colleague, I said we didn't actually get a reasoned answer why the commissioner would do it better and stronger than the agency. So we think that only the senior officials are being added, paid, started new offices, but we don't see any guarantees. As far as the agency is concerned as you can see it should be independent of political pressures, so the Commissioner should also be independent. It is now said that he will be less dependent because he will be elected by the Croatian Parliament and this agency director proposes the government. I think it's clear to us that the option of political size is being regulated both in the government and in the Parliament and that such pressure is possible as it is in the case of the agency because you know that the agency has changed its opinion depending on the political warranty in power. What remains completely unclear to me in this law and what is not resolved, and this is a matter of the protection of security information under the Privacy Act which is classified and the status of the Council of the National Security Office and its opinion. So if a high-security data that is important for the security of the state is such a classified whether the opinion of the National Security Council office commits or does not commit, or is, the Commissioner, however, the power to assess, in spite of all that, that this information is available, and in that sense, the colleague of Komadin really well expresses the concern that a superman and superman should be, who will assess it better and more significantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32102	Thank you very much. We continue the debate, colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32103	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a colleague of Lovrin's, she's all over this final proposal for a law on the right to access information, so I'm going to go in one other direction. If freedom of information and the right to the availability of information owned by a public authority is one of the fundamentals and here I stress the fundamental human rights that, apart from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, and the Convention on Access to Information and International Contracts, the question is actually raised. Who should actually be in charge of protecting this fundamental human right. I remind all of us that in the middle of last year, we passed a new Law on the Ombudsman, which was defined in that law, as was the law before that by a public defender as the authority of the Croatian Parliament for the promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms established by the Constitution and the laws and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms adopted by the Republic of Croatia. Today, and in your presentation, the Deputy Minister spoke of the final proposal for a law on access to information but you also announced the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the final proposal for a law which will determine that the Commissioner for Information is also the authority of the Croatian Parliament for the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights to the availability of information owned by the public authority. I would also like to remind you that, in our system, there is also a prosecutor for children, a lawyer for gender equality, a lawyer for people with disabilities, and now we will have not the attorney for information but the Commissioner for Information. The question arises whether we will use this approach to ensure that every fundamental right has a special institution, i.e. a special defender or commissioner, and thus create a forest of institutions in which those institutions are created, and these are in this case you will recognise Croatian citizens. The creation of such a forest of institutions inevitably leads to the overlap of their detour and possible conflict of jurisdiction. I would also remind myself that the HDZ Club also suggested that special defenders for children and gender equality should also be incorporated into the system of the public defenders, which unfortunately the majority of the assembly did not accept. So I now believe that it would be good and desirable but also rational to have one institution, which is the institution of a mere lawyer who would be relevant for the promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms established by the Constitution, laws and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms adopted by the Republic of Croatia, as established and regulated by the Law on the Ombudsman of the Republic of Croatia, which states Article 2. "The Portuguese Ombudsman is the authority of the Croatian Parliament for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms established by the Constitution, laws and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms adopted by the Republic of Croatia." Clearly, this does not exclude the possibility, however, of specialising deputies or services in the professional service of the Office of the Public Advocate for the Protection and Promotion of Certain Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms. This approach would make the institutional system for the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms for citizens clearer and more representative and kudikam, which is particularly important today, you will recognise economically and rationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32104	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Comrade Goran Beus Richembergh, he's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this wheel. And the next Boris Blazekovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32105	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Today, many colleagues spoke of the bill itself. I would particularly support the debate of counterpart Nada Turine-Đuric, who spoke on behalf of the HNS club of Liberal Democrats and would certainly support the discussion of counterpart Josip Kregar. We have a very important proposal for a law on the right to access information. The right to access information is the right established by the development of democratic states and regulated by a special law, so Croatia ranks in that order. In some countries, including Croatia, the right to access information is constitutional law. In addition to the Croatian Constitution, the right to access information is also protected by the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. So far, the implementation of the Law on the right to access information has been cared for by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data as an independent body which has the power to access information in appeal proceedings, cases, the exercise of the right to access information, supervision of the implementing... law. This final proposal of the law and the legislative... to establish a Commissioner for Information and to take control of the implementation of the Law on Access to Information has been made in my opinion a qualitative step in this fundamental human law. Under the law, every natural and legal person is a user of information rights and has the right to obtain and request information. Users, primarily citizens and businesses, civil society associations may request any information they possess, which is available or supervised by the public authority. As a rule, all information by the public authorities is public well-being and must be made available to all. The public authorities shall also be obliged to carry out information regularly when there is no specific request. Access to information may only be limited in exceptional cases, and in cases prescribed by law, with an obligation to explain the duration of the period of limitation of the right to access information. On the basis of the latest report by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data submitted and discussed in this meeting, it is apparent that certain public authorities have not yet either understood or did not accept or are not teamed up for the implementation of the Law on the right to access to information. Only about 50% of the public authorities have fulfilled not all of them, and in an incorrect manner, the obligation to submit reports to the Agency. This is one of the most visible data that points to current problems in the implementation of the Law on the right to access information. Among other things, there are comments that, in order to obtain sensitive more complicated information, there is still too long and complicated a procedure and this can further jeopardise human rights. All this points to the need to improve the legal framework as well as to increase the interest of users of information. However, regardless of the significant increase in the requirements mentioned, it is concluded that, unfortunately, citizens and other users of the right to information are not adequately familiar with their constitutional law. It is even more significant that public authorities are not sufficiently aware of their obligations under the law on access to information. I therefore believe that further efforts need to be made in the information and education of citizens of other users of the right to information and to further inform and educate public authorities in their obligations to publish and provide information. The proposal for a Law on Access to Information requires all public authorities to cooperate with the Commissioner for Information and thus to enable and enable the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data to work more effectively, while allowing citizens to work more effectively, with their Constitution guaranteed human rights. One of the real effects of consummation of the law on the right to access information is to combat corruption. The greatest evil of one country is corruption. Corruption destroys the economy, creates distorted values, pushes to the surface and people, events and phenomena that symbolise quasi success, and it is about incompetent fraud and thieves and devastating phenomena in society that promote the invaluability of fair life, promote unworthy systematic education, honest work and fair entrepreneurship. Corruption is created and can only occur in state institutions and state-related enterprises. There is a phenomenon that the survivors would end up being forced to accept a number of individuals and private entrepreneurs of all kinds of activities. The right to access information is contained in this devastating evil. The real value of the right to access information is the responsibility of the authorities to those for whom there are, citizens and citizens. Each authority shall carry out the tasks entrusted to it by the citizens, each institution and every administration shall serve the citizens and, therefore, everything treated by the budget, all state-owned enterprises and everything that is a role in the public services and institutions paying citizens and citizens must be subject to the examination of the question, evaluations and assessments. Moreover, today's modern state leadership should be fully open to the public and to the citizens. Today's modern state needs to demystify as much as possible as possible there. Every modern government wants as much as possible to involve citizens in governance, i.e. decision-making and law-making. As a result, every modern state promotes a strong development of civil society that is increasingly participating in all processes in the state and society. Contemporary state leadership is an open state that expects its citizens, allowing them to participate in all processes even after the elections, to question those for whom they have or have not voted. Contemporary state leadership allows its citizens to directly and indirectly assist in the development and promotion of the entire society. In this, citizens must feel comfortable and must feel that all state institutions are their institutions, that they have the full right to seek and demand from those who are currently in power to lead their country with increased attention and special care and to care for the institutions and management of processes in the state and society. One of the powerful tools that also enables questioning, but also proper participation of authorities and state institutions is the Law on the right to access information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32106	Thank you very much. Next up is Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32107	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do, and I'm going to discuss the law on access to information. The implementation of this law since 2003, with changes from 2010 to today, may have often created the wrong picture because in public it may have left the impression that there is no purpose or purpose of such a law, so today and in the assembly, but also the public interpreted it as a goal or as a purpose that it is a democratic right, that it is a constitutional right, we have heard now and that it is but almost all morning, that it is one of the tools in the fight against corruption. Perhaps the closest goal and purpose was today's Deputy Minister when he said in his introduction that there were goals or purposes. I will single out the two that I wrote down myself, which is the first access to information owned by the authorities and the other one, the right to good administration. From these two goals can be communicated and I think they're well set up. The law itself is well set up and is not questionable theory. What we're questioning here today is that part of what practice will be. I have already said today that information in its official character is the result of processing, manipulation and data organisation in a way that adds knowledge to the recipient. I think the question of this law is within that definition. Because what have we had so far in implementing this law? We have had a monitoring of the implementation of this law by a number of associations among which I quote GONG as the most active in all of this, in one part and media monitoring. So the media would occasionally publish, from time to time, that and those authorities of the state or local authorities did not show themselves or give so many answers to certain queries, so there are certain statistics. But before I say these statistics, I'm going to say something that may not be related to this subject, but it's not irrelevant. According to the freedom of the media in the Republic of Croatia, we ended up in 63rd place in the world in 2011, and in 2012, we fell down to 64th place, along with Burke's Faso. That's a fact, and at the bottom of that ladder are North Korea and Eritrea. It doesn't matter what I say, but it doesn't touch this law. What is the interest of an ordinary citizen or someone interested in information? These are always contracts concluded between the state authorities and private let's say legal persons. There's the greatest interest there is. There are concessions and studies and particularly financial transactions. How'd that work out so far? There is something that becomes a certain obstacle to the implementation of such a form of law, which is the law on the confidentiality of information. It contains sufficient good provisions that can degrade the opportunities set by this law because any head of a body so far may declare or classify certain information with a secret level and you as an interested citizen or party in the process cannot obtain that information no matter how perfect this law was. You can proceed with the procedure and after the appeal to the agency you will return to the beginning with the fact that you will now bear a certain level of cost, so whoever loves to choose. What they'll get after that they'll see. The research is clear and shows that the bodies of the state authorities have so far, regardless of the law we had, which here is said to have not been good, so to repair it, etc., in the vast majority of cases answered all the questions. Rare are institutions in a country that do not answer questions or requested information. So we have a survey for last year conducted by GONG, which addressed the 70th address where 67 responses were received completely, only 3 bodies did not respond. That's one big percentage let's say in terms of what's perceived in public. Of course, the body of the state government, and I was already saying this today, will not publish any details of the concession agreement for the construction of the highway, or of which the masters of BINA Istria or Zagreb-Macelj, etc. will not publish. It's in the sphere of business secrets. Just as the bank has the right to keep its business secret to itself or to have a business relationship with its client, so the government's body retains that same right. Why would I be held back from this bill or the vote? Because they appeared in the debate, and it is evident from the law, three basic problems. The first is certainly the choice of Commissioners in a way that votes in this House, the majority that exists and will do so. Secondly, what I do not like is certainly the submission of the Data Protection Agency to the Commissioner i.e. He is taking over from the agency a department that will serve him as a service in the performance of his work. And third, the appointment or appointment of an information officer. I think I'm gonna try again and with those three problems I'm gonna try to explain why. The choice of commissioners will be political, and that is where we will come in the doubt that we have heard many times here. Whether he is independent if he is chosen only by the majority or independent if he is chosen by all and played by each other, he can be in both cases as we have heard and independent. I think the consensus is either a majority, a two-thirds majority, more appropriate procedure. As far as the information officers are concerned, I think they question the functions that so far exist, which are spokesmen of ministries, various municipal companies and all other bodies of the state administration. There is hardly any municipal company in the Republic of Croatia that does not have a spokesman. Are those the same people? Under this law, it doesn't seem like it, and I think a lot of people will get in trouble. We'll hear from the promoters what's going to happen to those speakers. In my opinion, these are absolutely the same powers that speakers have so far. And if there was anything wrong with this law, the government itself has shown. We've been here all morning talking about the law on access to information and representing it as perfect, and the government has sent nine amendments to the same. In the course of the parliamentary debate, we received 9 amendments from which I single out this first one which again creates a particular problem or a space of manipulation that says that the public authority is obliged to carry out a test of proportionality and public interest before making a decision. Each body without a criterion which is a test of proportionality and what is that public interest will be called upon very easily if it wishes to deny certain information on this Article 16 as it will be voted on tomorrow and will not provide the information. So today we can talk as much as we want about us being free and being informed and having enough information, but the conduct of the body of the government or the authorities on this matter and under this law will be about the same as before. It's something we practice. Whether this is going to improve through what the theory says is good and I think maybe it's, maybe it's going to take a year or two to really see if it's going to be that way. That's why I'm saying because of this not wanting to agree on how to elect this commissioner, but also because of these other objections in my vote, I will be restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32108	Thank you very much. And last in an individual debate, Boro Grubisic. A colleague is not present, so he loses his right to debate on this point. And on behalf of the motionary Deputy Minister of Administration, Mr. Zoran Piculjan is final. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32109	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, I thank you first of all for a very exhaustive, fruitful debate that pointed out in any case the importance of the right to access information as constitutional law, as a constitutional principle, as a constitutional standard. It is good and it is not, of course, not expected to achieve a lot of agreement and fully harmonised views regarding the legal regulation of this area, but what the promoter had for the purpose, for the purpose is precisely bad, and here it was mainly about not good practice which, in communicating the public authorities with citizens, was precisely the task and one step to give legal regulation an appropriate or more appropriate legal regulation to which this bad practice would be given as an instrument for the removal of this bad practice. Of course, as far as the law itself is concerned, it will be under the monitoring of the Croatian public, but it will also have to be monitored by the government and public authorities, more responsible public authorities than it has been so far. And without it, someone said, the law will only remain an empty letter on paper. Every rule will remain an empty letter on paper if this second part is missing, and that is its implementation. This is where we can really agree with the Croatian legal system and the Croatian administrative system, legal how you want to practice, unfortunately so far, could be and could be exposed to the harsh criticism of Croatian citizens. We hope that this law is here, too, and I am sorry that there are no colleagues of the honourable representative and president of the Committee on Information for Mr Vuksic, who said that I was delighted to defend this concept. That's too hard of a word. For the last time in this House, I had 20 years and a few years ago as many in the same true delight. And this was only one way, this was only one explanation which also convinced that this instrumentation that is offered here is better than the solutions so far. Here is also when we look at where it is located, where it is, we can locate the most important consensus and disagreement in this high house, of course, that we will always connect it with the institution of Commissioners or agency as well as with the body of the slaughter is boredom or still performing the tasks of the right to access information. We've been exposed, exposed here by a series of arguments why one or another solution is better. The solution that has been accepted, which is the solution of the commissioners in relation to the agency, is the solution they have received and it has been obtained in the professional public, in the discussions of the expert public, in the academic public of all those, most of them, the good majority of those involved in the discussion of implementation, in the current implementation of the law and future perception of what this institute should look like, has been given full confidence. It seems to us that, we have opinions, and the motion is that the Commissioner is as one personalised institution, a stronger person than the reputation chosen in Parliament with support, hopefully a consensus or two-thirds, but not because, hopefully, it is such a parliamentary practice, and I also don't have to answer to why here in this legislative proposal we didn't have to put two-thirds of it, because it was simply explained by Mrs Lovrin, and also some MPs for the simple reason why it is not possible. Why the Commissioner's system in relation to the agency? For reasons that, for a few practical reasons. Because the commissioner can have what the agency cannot have in the Croatian legal and administrative system, which is inspection powers, that means a powerful instrument that gives him a tool in his hands, which gives him control over the implementation of this law. Why don't we just have a civil defender? That is exactly what you will be able to read from the report by the attorney general who referred to the need to, who made the recommendation to strengthen the second-degree resolution authority, the second-degree authority in the right to access information through the body, whether the agency or the commissioner has not been declared, but precisely because administrative treatment and sanctioning, and sanctions are not, the administrative procedure which sanctions are not in the powers of the Ombudsman, it cannot do so. And that still seems to me to be something else, the Commissioner is strong but powerful with his authority, the way he chooses, the powers he has, but is not final in whoever decides on the right to access information. The right to access information ultimately decides, as it has decided so far, not administratively, but the High Administrative Court, not the Administrative Court of First Instance, but the High Administrative Court. And his, while deciding on the right to access information, when they are of national interest, when they are classified, this action has a delayed effect. According to this, judicial protection is guaranteed, meaning another step, which is important to the agencies, and it seems to us that it, which will develop a specialised, specialised practice than will be done by the agency that deals with and protects personal data and at the same time the right to access information. Here, what further empowers him, one of the MPs said this amendment to the government which came from the proposal of constitutional and legal experts on the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, which gives him, which position him on, as the authority of the Croatian Parliament. We think it's a good solution, we think it's worth accepting at the last minute, in the end what the profession proposes, which is also the constitutional and legal theory that suggests, and practice. And here, perhaps, the answer to Agent Boris, who praised this law to a good extent, and he put one, I would not say doubt, but perhaps the question why the government went with several, with 9 amendments to this bill which she herself praised so much in her own explanation of its adoption. Well, because she was accepting everything that was just made on the committees, on all committees, on the Constitutional Committee, on the Legislative Committee, without looking at whether proposals were made by opposition or advocates of the position. And because of that, it wasn't the board that did it, the government did it. So she was accepting what the MPs proposed and what the MPs had proposed and what the outside committee members had proposed. Here I think it's not weakness, I think it's strength. What is next important to say and what is the same other type of problem, whether this and the question of whether it will require funds, how much it will be and what the capacity of the Commissioner's office will be. First of all, through a normative solution, part of the Agency’s staff is taken over and transferred to the Commissioner’s office through internal transfers to the State Administration system will be able to be made possible more strongly, and the strength of that office gradually when the funds are available. The funds, equipment from part of the agency are being taken over. That's what practically leads to no question and the beginning of the operation of this institute after the election of commissioners in this high House. What is also the third pillar of the problem is whether the implementation of this law will cause enormous costs, I think that Mr Cain mentioned in his presentation, that there will be an incredible amount of increase in information officers, however, not the problem, since 2013, this institute has been existing for years, but for a decade and there has been no increase, that authority for information is given either to that officer, or to the officials with his job, so that there is no need to be afraid that it will not be, that there will be great employment. I think he's never been to those places before. And where there is no capacity, the one and the head of the body, the head of a municipality, can and must be, must inform the public and be a sort of information officer. Here's another amendment has been adopted in this, which is actually, I think, on Mrs. Lovrin's proposal, that a test of public interest may be carried out in all cases. We have not accepted the part that other laws cannot regulate matter but in any case the Commissioner will be able to question any such situation and sanction it in that case when he thinks it is not appropriate. I welcome again with the court's protection. There seems to us that this law, and certainly, and we know that this law is not perfect, there are no perfect legal solutions, we know that there can be doubt whether the Commissioner will function better, and that someone can really be suspicious whether or not the Commissioner will do it better than the agency will do, but there seems to be a lot of strong reasons to accept this concept offered in this House and which has come out truly with strong, strong communication in his efforts with the Croatian professional, professional and political, professional, civil and political public. So I would, I think this law really deserves to be supported and adopted with as much consensus as possible. I thank you for your contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32110	Thank you very much. We have replicas. Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32111	Thank you very much. Your honor, Deputy, you said in your final statement that you were hoping. I do not slow it down and hope is not bad at a time when you have a certain positive shift so you expect even better etc. But we've been hoping for a year and a half to get better and we're not getting better. We're going in a worse direction, no matter what we've passed here, hundreds of perfect laws as they claim. And that practice is the one that destroys our hope I'll show you an example of the board of conflict of interest. What hope does this give for selecting this Commissioner? I'll try to explain. So we had a procedure that you could suggest ten members of the commission but only ten and none of those ten that most of them chose. The opposition had no right to suggest. Then in a committee that counts votes there's no one in the opposition then it takes 76 votes either to get a seat in the commission, so some passed with 77 in a system that no one supervised on the side of the opposition. So if that is the hope and it was a secret vote that should convince us that this Commissioner will be so independent, good, quality, that he will provide what has not been possible so far in the way and procedure that he will be elected. Then we can still hope. And the fact that with the 9 amendments we got at 11 and a half here on the bench, we've been discussing the law for two hours. We didn't know the amendment was coming. We didn't know it and changed in much part the content of the law itself says that one part of the morning we discussed something that may not have been credible or the position of the official government. This is what we learned only in your executive or final address. That's the story. And I think it could have been better done and we could have been informed in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32112	Col. Boric, these amendments arrived at a time when clubs discussed, were divided into benches. Replication response, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32113	Thank you, Madam Vice President. As for the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest if I can't follow the Rules of Procedure, I think this is the first time in practice, then you can see presidential whether it's going to go on or not. [[/Invader Zgrebec: The Minister is listed as a Proposer and has the right to propose, responds to the replica. Here you go, Minister.]] So if it's a replica on the proposer, it may or may not have to. If the Rules of Procedure Committee agree not to, then that practice will continue. If the vice president lets me, then I can answer. So as for the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, you know very well that both the Prime Minister and I, as a minister in whose portfolio the law was deliberately advocated to change the law on conflict of interest. However, because of the commitments we have made, it was not possible and I believe that when the first opportunity is made for the commission to choose in a different way. That's what I have to say, because we used to object to this commission when we were in opposition, and we probably had the same remarks. However, the fact that this is also one of the commitments undertaken is that we had to choose the commission and the commission was chosen. As far as the Commissioners are concerned, I will repeat what I think needs to be said, so I think the Commissioner for Information will significantly contribute to the transparency and openness of the authorities at all levels, that he will not only be one of the powers that the agency now has but will be the only authority the Commissioner has and that he will be able to establish good practice and that he will be a person of authority and that it is absolutely certain that if he has the unanimous support of the Croatian Parliament or at least the largest parties that his authority in the public, and then it will be wider. And how we care about it to be well done I honestly believe that one can find a person who would get the trust of all parties in the Croatian Parliament because it is a person who will then control the transparency of work and state institutions as well as the institution of local self-government. So let's say we do that by checking both political options and other policy options and, of course, public enterprises at least those that are predominantly owned by the state. And as for the institutional form, I'd say about rhetorical, the name of the Personal Data Protection Agency suggests that the agency must first look at how to protect personal data, and then if it can't possibly publish them a... it's about information that's the other way around. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So that commissioner has to watch as much information as possible publish... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32114	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32115	... The final presentation clearly shows that you are seeking to be as consensual as possible about the adoption of this Law on the right to access information, that this Commissioner is indeed a strong democratic step. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I'd call this commissioner if it were the authority of the Kukuriku coalition and he actually did. You must understand that, like all Croatian citizens, the majority in this Croatian Parliament is the Kukuriku coalition which, as well as its proposals, will force everything into force without any consensus without any cooperation, without any democratic opportunity to decide, without the democratic practice we have applied in the past. So the definition of this man is the Kukuriku Commissioner for Transparency in informing all state, local and regional institutions. It's the full name of your law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32116	Next replica of colleague Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32117	... I will reply to Mr. Deputy's words. [[Speech is not enabled.]] In fact, Mr. Deputy was responsible for one of the MPs who said that the attorney general could not do so so protects the constitutional right of citizens to access information but I read that the attorney general is an attorney for the promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms established by the Constitution, which is one of them and this. You further said that constitutional legal experts have proposed these amendments so that these amendments would become the commissioner of Parliament's authority. I must say that according to the Constitution, the only authority of the Human Rights Council established by the Constitution is the Attorney General. That is why we have also advocated that all special defenders are framed in the institution of the attorney general because they would receive the constitutional weight of the representatives of the Croatian Parliament. That was our duck. So is this one. But it doesn't matter, and I don't think those constitutional experts would be able to say that by this amendment he becomes the authority of the Parliament, not to me at all, the constitutional authority attorney only. Furthermore, these amendments, therefore, do not say that you have dropped some provisions on administrative technical matters saying that they do not belong here but in the final provisions. As you've streamlined the amendment, they can't possibly be content of the final provisions because they're solving the pro futuro thing and not in the transitional period, but they're forever determining who's going to do the administrative technical work, and it's not technically the place in the final provision, it's exactly where it's been and if it's wanted to be. And if you wish in the final provision, then adopt the amendment of MP Vuksic, who has been studying this exactly so that these administrative tasks will be carried out by the agency until the takeover by the Commissioner's office. I'd have these amendments because they're extensive but I'm not two minutes sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32118	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Deputy Minister Zoran Piculjan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32119	Thank you very much. About this, I really said that I didn't tell me I didn't say that I couldn't do that to the civil defenders, but I said why couldn't in which segment... about administrative proceedings and sanctioning. And we're not here... I didn't hear you, I'm sorry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's one thing. And the second is this constitutional legal dispute. In Article 93, the Ombudsman and the other representatives of the Croatian Parliament shall be present. The Assembly has no vacancy attorney as an attorney, and this amendment is on that constitutional trail and you can't deny it. It seems to us that it is only a powerful authority for him whether he was referred to as an authorityal authority or not, certainly, by virtue of the decision we had so far. It protects the promotion and constitution of the Republic of Croatia guaranteed the right to access information. Why isn't it good, why isn't it his strength of authority? What authority does he get into? No one's. And as far as transitional norms are concerned, it's quite a good thing that we've given through the amendment, and in the material provisions when we're exhausted when the rules of procedure are passed, then the rules of procedure will be... and that's allowed in the material provisions of this law then... when time passes and then these practically transitional norms will stop. It doesn't have to stand in transitional norms until they last.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32120	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32121	Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You injured Article 213 when you enabled a minister who was not present at this debate to respond to a replica. Just as an agent in Article 213 who is not present loses his right to speak on the subject, so is the representative of the ministry or the minister himself. Therefore, I ask you to keep an eye on the breach of the Rules of Procedure and on the application of Article 213.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32122	Article 213 is not injured because the act lists the representatives of the motionors and ministers and the Deputy Minister of Administration and has the right to speak and may occur during the debate each time during the Intruders is not understood./... And they can report during the debate, each time during the debate, and therefore the minister had the right to reply to the replicas because he is one of the motions, and you, if you are not satisfied, contact the Committee on the Constitution. And Branko Box, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32123	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy, you mentioned the information officers and you said there would be no increase in costs. It seems to me that it will, and it rightly gives me Article 18 because you have allowed users to exercise their right to access information on the basis of their submitted and oral request. So we'll be buried obviously with demands, people on the highway phone, the state road that was already in any category, they'll give themselves the right to call and of course we're obliged to give that feedback. I'm talking about local self-government. It also gives me an article 21 when you tell me if the public authority doesn't have information, and there's knowledge of the body it owns, so we have to be cops, or investigators. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. So if the user thinks that the information is incorrect, he can ask for her correction. It's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32124	Replica reply, Deputy Minister Zoran Piculjan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32125	... The law that has been in force since 2003, and what was worth in 2003, will continue to apply. [[Specially enabled.]] Also, if the Authority does not possess the information it is an administrative procedure, you must practically comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act. This is not a system law that will regulate the full functioning of the public authority, there are a number of regulations that continue to do so. And as for the information officer, in no way does any norm of this law indicate that it will increase and need to increase the number of people in this one. The responsibility of the public authority to do so will need to be increased.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32126	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32127	Dear Vice-President, the Rules of Procedure of Article 211(1) of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. The representative who wishes to respond to the presentation, replica, shall be given the floor as soon as the speaker has completed his speech to whose presentation the representative wishes to respond. I think it's all clear, and in that case, he shouldn't have spoken to a minister who didn't have a presentation but a deputy minister. It took me a while, but I found it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32128	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on the bill. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32129	The final draft law on the right to access information, second reading, PZE No.198 The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments have been filed, especially the table, by several MPs. I'd like a representative of the motionary, Deputy Minister of Honor, Zoran Piculjan. We're on our way to the plate. Amendment number one. Representative Branko Vuksic?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32130	It shall not be accepted for the reason that, according to this information, it is prescribed by the final proposal of the law, more clearly and broadly defined and includes any information owned by the public authority independently of the way it is displayed. It can therefore also be shown in the form of an electronic record. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32131	I would like the honourable representative, Branko Vuksic, to come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32132	Well, I think the amendment that I've given to improve this law and to clarify and to specify, so I'd like that amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32133	Please state the amendment of the respected representative Branko Vuksic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 2 of the same respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32134	It is not accepted because the term ‘proposer’ given by the applicant is more precise and clearer to the user and corresponds to the objective of the law on the right to access information.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32135	Thank you very much. I'd like the esteemed Branka Vuksic to come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32136	Well, I think it's just the opposite of that, and that's why I asked the amendment to be clearer and clearer, and I'm also asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32137	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement on Amendment number 2 of the respected representative Branko Vuksic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number three of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32138	It's also not acceptable. The proposal is intended to specify exactly the medium and this website on which information is published for easier availability and user-accessation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32139	Thank you very much. I would like the honourable representative, Branko Vuksic, to come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32140	First of all, we think it's not just the Internet and it's not just about the Internet, it's about all the networks, but obviously the government's practice continues to think that when the opposition proposes something, I don't know why, to be opportunised to the government, I don't even understand because these are clarifications and this is enabling easier work. But if the government does. I'm looking for the same statement, although I know it won't be, but I'm asking for a statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32141	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number three to the respected representative, Branko Vuksic, who is not accepted by the government? Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 4 is also a respected representative of Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32142	It is not accepted for the same reason as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32143	Please, dear representative Branko Vuksic, come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32144	For the same reason I've explained before, I'm asking for a statement, and I'm also saying that the government has not accepted it from the opposition side.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32145	Please state the amendment to the 4th Honored Representative Branko Vuksic, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to Amendment 5 of the also respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32146	It is also not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32147	Please, dear representative Branko Vuksic, come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32148	With the same explanation, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32149	I would like to make a statement on Amendment number 5 of the respected representative Branko Vuksic, whom the government does not accept. Please, who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 6 of the also respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32150	The government also does not accept with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32151	Please, Your Honor, I'd like you to come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32152	With the same explanation, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32153	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment to the 6th Honored Representative Branko Vuksic, which the government does not accept. Please, who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No 7 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia becomes an integral part of the proposal. He's here on time. Amendment number 8 of the Honored Representative Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32154	The amendment is not accepted by the Government by reason that public authorities are obliged to allow access to information, by providing information to the user who has applied in any of the laws of the prescribed ways which do not exclude each other, which would be done by accepting this amendment. This enables the solution proposed by the applicant to enable the user to obtain the requested information and vice versa, with an insight into the documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32155	Thank you very much. I'd like to introduce the esteemed representative of Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32156	The amendment is small, but it's very important in practice, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32157	I would like to make a statement on the amendment of the Golden Comadine, which the government does not accept, number 8. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to Amendment 9 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which becomes an integral part of the final bill because it is submitted. And 10 and 11. We are going to Amendment 12 of the Committee on Information, Information and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32158	Amendment number 12 is accepted by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32159	It becomes an integral part of the final proposal. Amendment number 13 of the respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32160	The Government does not accept this argument because the powers of the Commissioners set out in Article 35 of the final draft law are governed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32161	I ask that the honourable representative Branko Vuksic be made known.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32162	I also have to say I don't understand the government's explanation. I wish it was wider and explained why it wasn't accepted. I'm asking to make a statement on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32163	Please state the amendment number 13 of the respected representative, Branko Vuksic, who is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Thank you. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 14 is the government of the Republic of Croatia becoming an integral part of the final proposal. Amendment number 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32164	The amendment of the Committee on Information, Information and Media is accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32165	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 16 of the government of the Republic of Croatia becomes an integral part of the final bill, it came in time. Amendment number 17 of the respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32166	Amendment number 17 is not accepted. The amendment on the Government of the Republic of Croatia is deleted from Article 39i in transitional provisions reflecting its transitional character, and the issues in question will be subject to an agreement between the Commissioner and the Agency which will be concluded subsequently.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32167	Please make a statement to the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32168	It's actually about what the Commissioner is going to do here, actually, the law is unclear. The law allowed the commissioner, but he didn't give him the tools, he didn't give him the funds. We wanted to explain how long administrative and technical tasks for the needs of the same office have been carried out by the agency, and since the agency begins to stop and the commissioner begins to work independently. Please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32169	Please state the amendment to the 17th Honored Representative Branko Vuksic, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendments 18 and 19 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia become an integral part of the final draft law. Amendment number 20 of the respected representative Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32170	The amendment of 20 representatives of Branko Vuksic is not accepted by the Government because it is not clear what is meant by personal means of work, bearing in mind that the provision of the final draft law is in line with the Law on the System of State Administration which uses the said concept of equipment referred to in Article 72. The law on the system of state administration does not know the term proposed by the honourable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32171	Please explain to the esteemed representative, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32172	Well, the law says the equipment donated by the EU to the agency. And now that equipment that donates it is worth two million euros to the commissioner. First of all, we'll commit an inadmissible offense. We have warned about this and in an explanation of what it is, the Commissioner can only use personal means of work. First of all, we have deceived Europe and we allow it to be settled legally. I'm asking you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32173	Please state the amendment number 20 of the respected representative Branko Vuksic, whom the government does not accept. Please, who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 21 is the government of the Republic of Croatia becoming an integral part of the final bill. And finally Amendment 22 of the Committee on Information, Information and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32174	Amendment No 22 of the Committee on Information, Information and Media is accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32175	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I give the vote but before that, I warn that the adoption of this law requires the majority of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament, that is 76, within the meaning of Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please state who's in favor of the final bill? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 85 votes in favour, 35 votes against and 1 abstention, have been passed by the Law on the right to access information in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32176	We move on to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, second reading, PZ No. 232 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of laws, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. The Prime Minister Arsen Bauk's proposal will be discussed in the introduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32177	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us the Final Proposal for a Law on the financing of political parties, we had it in our first reading in the 12th month. We've considered proposals, remarks, so we've conducted certain consultations. What was actually the most resilient in the first reading and the solution we proposed in the alternatives was the way and number of bill openings for elections, especially for local elections. We have considered the solutions that were and the proposals that were presented in the debate, which were therefore discussed, which we ourselves had had some dilemmas, in one of the versions of the final text of the law, we have proposed some sort of solution that followed the fact that the number of necessary accounts that the parties should open for local elections, but we are based on the opinion of the State Election Commission and on the basis of the opinion of the State Audit Office, however, we have proposed this one solution which therefore obliges all political parties participating in the elections to specifically open an account for each election unit. During the discussion on committees as well as probably during this debate, there will be some and different proposals, so the government will therefore be manifested in the Rules of Procedure of the Government, so we may perhaps until the law is passed or some of the amendments are accepted, or the Government will, with its amendment to that norm, try again to consider what would be the best solution. Perhaps on the grounds that at least coalitions can open one account, not that each party must open a special account. However, the fact is that for transparency is also for relations among the participants of the election is also the responsibility of individuals most logically that one who goes in the race and where he goes in the race to bear responsibility for the financing of his campaign. So we're not or I'm not a supporter of collective responsibility and collective sanctions. I therefore believe that this is the highest level of transparency and that if someone intends to participate in the management of the city and the municipality, the county, if it is intended to have the resources of the taxpayers, then it is most fair to show that he spent the funds in his campaign, even if it is a municipality of several hundred inhabitants and these residents also invest in the budget and therefore the money is financed by the needs of local self-government and someone competing should then file such an account. The fact that there will be a large number of accounts but they will be available on the pages, so where we predicted. Therefore, anyone who wants to control someone’s campaign will be given insight. Not only the state bodies, but also their political competitors, who can't understand that someone reported a smaller amount of campaign, and that it was seen from everything visible that it was much more than that, for example. Therefore, it will be available and, accordingly, will be led not only by discussions on responsibility but also by discussions of the political one. So, as someone approached it transparently, correctly, etc. Therefore, I also hold the solution proposed here is not bad if it can be improved by the basis of the club proposals and the basis of the proposal of representatives or committees. So it's going to be fixed anyway. The fact therefore that the financing of the political activities of the electoral promotion was governed by the Law on the financing of the political activities of the electoral promotion, which was adopted in 2011 and had one amendment in 2011. For the first time, the law was applied in practice in previous parliamentary elections and, of course, a number of opinions were requested on the application of the law. Because, of course, there were some things that should have been applied in practice. In view of the fact that certain issues in law enforcement have proved insufficiently regulated in accordance with the Action Plan for the implementation of the Open Authority Partnership Initiative in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2012-2013, a detailed analysis of the application of the law has been carried out in April 2012 and guidelines for the making of amendments and additions have been established. Then, of course, an expert working group was formed also from representatives of the National Election Commission, the State Audit Office, the authorities of the state administration, Transparency International Croatia and GONG. Also, a report by experts on the prevention of corruption in the Republic of Croatia from which the European Commission implemented the period between 27 February and 5 March 2012 found that there are still areas in the law to be improved in relation to the Law on the financing of political activities and electoral promotion, and recommendations related to the regulation of the bank's obligations to report to the DIP on the opening of a special account, the ban on donations following the completion of the election promotion, the pooling of the final report and the Financial Report on the financing of the electoral promotion and the regulation of the period within which candidates in the elections are obliged to close a special account. On this basis, we have made the first draft law, on the basis of the debate, we have proposed the final draft law that is before you today. In relation to the first reading of the law, there are no major amendments, and I believe that we will still come up with perhaps better solutions than those proposed and in this final text so that the text adopted is therefore the best possible at this point, given that we also have local elections ahead of us, before us elections for the European Parliament, where, very quickly, some of these provisions, i.e. the whole law, will be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32178	Thank you very much. Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32179	Here's only a very short one, surely the minister thought about it a lot and tried to find the best solution. We've all actually thought about it because these choices are ahead of us, but I'm afraid we're actually going to have a problem not as big cities as with this force of these small municipalities and these little candidates and little candidacys. And what kind of funding ratio will now be that candidate in a small municipality that is a party candidate, so not an independent, party candidate, for example, to its party. Let's be honest with each other in some space, especially some county or city area, as a rule, the donation goes towards that party that belongs to that candidate, that person. She doesn't go directly to one of the party's candidates. It's rare that a large company operates in the area of a small municipality. So let the company that donates she donates actually to the party in that area. And that's why I don't even know how this would work out, but especially when it comes to the relationship between the party and the candidate itself in some way, the possibility of how much the party can actually help its candidate financially is limited. Because that framework is relatively limited yet to come, but the amount of whether 100 thousand kunas per year can be paid by one legal person or 200, but we can collect donations in the area of one county and we can collect as a party regardless of the different candidates. I mean, maybe this is transparent about funding, but it's actually just going to make it more difficult especially where they're not really big amounts. The other thing is big cities of 800,000, 500 thousand inhabitants, and the other thing is small municipalities. Unfortunately, it's all put together in one plane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32180	Replication response, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32181	So here, if I understand correctly if the party has a candidate in a municipality, it will transfer a certain amount of money from the party's account to the account of that candidate, when the election is over, it will be left with some money and it will bring it back to the party. So that's exactly what we imagined. Of course, the funds spent on the election campaign from that account, and the funds that are regular parties go from the party account. However, there is always a question whether regular party activity in the election campaign is an election promotion. But we also have those theories that the election promotion lasts for three years and 11 months, 28 days. So what really promotional activity should be financed and reported in this with a special account and should be recorded accordingly. The parties are also subject to an annual review of their business on a regular basis. Here we are today so there are on the agenda of the Croatian Assembly Report for 2011 which showed significant progress in the accuracy and correctness of party financial management compared to 2010 will also be with the elections. So if the party has a candidate in a municipality she can pay him as much money as the limit for that municipality. And when the election is over, the candidate has spent so much, the rest returns to the party and it is considered de facto by his own means, so the problem is that there is no money more than what the problem is to transfer from one account. When it's done and the bills are taken back. Because the parties generally have a relatively small amount of money compared to the number of candidates who go to the elections, especially if they go to all election units, in all municipalities and cities to the elections, that would be when the total maximum limits are summed up, that is over 100 million kuna for the party, but there are no parties so many. And then they're going to set up some priorities and we can pay 50 to 50 grand here, and we're going to pay 5 grand because we no longer have or we estimate that it's objective enough to pay. Here's hoping I could explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32182	Thank you very much. And the next replica of Jaksa Baloevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32183	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Like this one often from my practice, not so long ago, have one experience, and it is related to all legal, natural persons who would pay a certain donation and we had a problem with how to get the information in which they are, by the basis of taxes and some other grounds, liable to the state. We couldn't possibly get the information on how to control whether they were bonds to the state, because if they were bonds to the state according to any basis, we had to return those assets to the state budget within 8 days of the law. Look, it's a big problem and we should certainly install it in the law to allow whether it's through income or through some other institution, that we can come and say legal person that and that, please check and give us some paper to confirm that it's not in a blockade or it's in a blockade, it's one of the big problems, just like this from practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32184	The reply to the replica of Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32185	The intensity of the norm of the law, therefore, is that these norms that you quoted are made impossible by those who have a tax debt to finance others, rather than by paying back the tax debt, and it is quite certain that in the implementation of that standard that is good has certain technical problems and difficulties, that a way through the tax administration should be found, as you have said, that such things are easier to recognize and that they are easier primarily to the parties because probably at the time of payment someone did not know that someone was in tax debt. And when it gets out that someone who's in tax debt is funding a party, it becomes a political problem for that party, even though it may not be objectively responsible for it because she didn't know. And that is, therefore, possible and precisely transparent, so on the one hand, the publication of those who have financed, on the other hand the publication of those who are obliged to be able to connect these two things, and should be taken into account in practical application. I'll warn my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32186	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs are up. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Damir Cain. He is not present, so the club loses the right to debate on this point, on behalf of the HDZ club colleague Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32187	Dear Madam Vice President Zgrebec, respected ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs and fellow MPs. Today, the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions is before us, so after the first reading and discussion we had, and discussions by committees, there is now a final debate before the adoption of the amendments to this law. First of all, I would like to say that the very intensity of the amendments to the law adopted in 2011 was, first of all, the continuation of those key principles and ideas which were elaborated in the existing law in 2011, while teaching the elections held for the Croatian Parliament in December 2011 when in practice we had the first chance to see how they were implemented, not only the activities of political parties during that period, but also the election promotion. On the other hand, the position of the HDZ Club is that it is a law which further specifies and regulates all obligations relating to the financing of political parties and, above all, to the principles of transparency and the principles of monitoring of donations and the funds used by political parties in their activities and in their election promotion. In this regard, we are pleased that the bill is the fruit of a very studioy and dedicated work involving many actors and, above all, representatives of the State Election Commission and the State Audit Office, whose report we had the opportunity to discuss several days ago, here in the Croatian Parliament, but also representatives of NGOs who have highlighted this topic as one of the key topics in the context of increasing the transparency of the work of political parties. Thus, also raising confidence in the Croatian public and among citizens about the activities the political parties are taking. It should also be noted that this law was often on the agenda of dialogue and talks with representatives of the European Commission as one of the aspects of meeting the political criteria. It is discussed both in Brussels and with experts, special so-called pir missions coming to Croatia and very detailed communication with the Croatian Government about individual solutions in the proposed, either the original 2011 law or these amendments. We believe that these are the key ideas that are contained in the so-called. The Sigma Report takes into account when the Ministry made a proposal for this law and is part of what we also call an open power partnership, so on the occasion of the debate on the previous agenda point when we talked about the law on access to information because it is global trends and European trends and also the obligations that Croatia wants to impose on political practice and generally political life. What we consider to be good is the good principle that every player of the election game takes over and part of the specific responsibility for funding. We think that this idea of opening a special account is a good move that will ensure greater transparency and will ensure that all actors are more alert in taking electoral action and we do not think that this activity will cause greater difficulties in the work of political parties or others participating in the elections because this principle is extremely important for the functioning of the right political parties in the election game. We also believe that strengthening the role which is quite certain from the provisions of this law, the supervisory role of the State Election Commission is one good newspaper in this law where they are already teaching these powers which the State Office has now extended powers of the DIP and we believe that it is precisely on the trail of greater transparency of the work of political parties at the time of political promotion. What also seems important to us seems to us to be an important inclusion of HYDRA, so the Croatian Information Documentation Agency as a body that will, on its websites, store the annual financial report from the parties and the financial reports on the financing of the promotion. We think it's positive. In this way, many of the situations we have had in recent years will be avoided when it was not possible to determine exactly who, when and how and how the individual company was financed. What also seems to us to be of quality is this provision of this law which does not allow donations after the end of the electoral company, and this situation of course prevents any post-election calculations that may later lead to insinuation of possible corrupt actions. Several aspects that I also think should be mentioned in this final debate is the fact that the ministry and the government as a proposing decided to increase the amount of funds for election promotion costs only for some of the actors regulated by these laws, so here it is said that there is an increase of funds for elections for the mayor of Zagreb from 500 thousand kuna to one million kuna in the mayor and mayor of the Great City from 400 to 600 thousand kuna. What was left in this proposal by me and since here is today current, the minister mentioned it briefly in his opening statement. These are the upcoming elections for the European Parliament where, according to the current law, the total amount of election promotion relating to these elections is equal to the funds for the election promotion by one election unit for the Croatian Parliament, so we are talking about a million and 500 thousand kuna. Of course in terms of general, economic and financial situation in the country in terms of savings and rationalisation in general, since all these frameworks are essentially sending that message. The message of a very rational approach and putting financial frameworks on the spending of funds for companies, however, we could ask whether this money is because Croatia is the entire electoral whole unit, so this will be the only elected representatives of the Croatian people with so-called. The universal mandate it currently has only according to the Croatian Constitution, of course, the President of the Republic and where in the ultimate line and the company organisation itself is not identical to the conduct of an electoral company in one of the 10 electoral units in the Republic of Croatia. I watched a little practice of some countries that, of course, vary and that practice is not uniform. However, in Ireland, for example, the company framework per candidate, according to one MP, is as much as 230 thousand euros, and here it is approximately less expensive than that. These are just examples and frameworks, I take Ireland as an example because it is very similar both to the size and number of representatives in the European Parliament. France, for example. is divided into electoral units so that each constituency chooses around 9 MPs and there is a framework for those 9, there their system is mirrored as in our elections for the Croatian Parliament about a million and 150 thousand euros. So we are, of course, talking about the amounts that are significantly larger but which we also need to take into account because it seems to me that given the new electoral system ahead of us in the context of the European Parliament's elections that one part of the activities will be focused on pedagogical informative activities, what kind of elections it is and what kind of voting methodology it is that I am calling on the Government not to leave the information activity of citizens on what this election will be like only to the DIP or possibly to NGOs but to take over an active part of responsibility and explain to Croatian citizens what kind of elections it is because the system... of voting we have not met so far and it requires literally one kind of technical education. We must not underestimate this problem, I think it is primarily in the interest of Croatian citizens but also the fact that it is very closely monitoring what the Croatian campaign for these elections will be, since it is in some way an introduction to a general campaign that will be held in 2014 in all EU member states and it is also a test for political groups participating in this political match. Of course it would be good in that sense, and I have not until the end of today because of the activities in the Croatian Parliament managed to figure out if the government had suggested a date. I think that next week as far as I understand we will be discussing this law but we should make sure that minimum democratic standards are respected so that we do not come into the situation so that the elections that our European partners expect to go out on them are solid, that it is the only affirmative message and the legitimacy of these choices, but also that the Union's membership of 1st July will not be such that the turnout due to more elections in the immediate time frame brings Croatia into a situation that the accidental exit to that choice is small. I think it's one big responsibility, and that's why I think they should be timed towards May, June when and because of the maintenance of local elections, we're going to have two already defined dates, so on 19th of May and 2nd of June, and it wouldn't be good in some way prematurely to question even the turnout, and then, indirectly, the legitimacy of those elected. Finally, we believe that the good and obligation to submit a financial report to the State Audit Office and to the DIP will also lead to greater transparency and arrangements of working with party finances and in general with the financing of political work by the parties. Here we hope that this law will be another contribution to strengthening both democratic standards in Croatia and strengthening the confidence of Croatian citizens in the political system and in the parties and in the ultimate line of their work for general benefit and benefit, and therefore we will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32188	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourist-Stranka Workmate Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32189	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is an important law. all politicians in Croatia are voiced as those who hide something under the grain, below the sheet where the transparency in the behaviour in the election campaign, in the process of holding elections, and in general in the functioning of the parties is crucial for all of us. Croatian Labourists accept this intensity in the first place because we have no problem with the transparency of finances. All our finances are on the page all the time, and they're not God knows how big so that everyone can see for themselves, and they won't particularly hit us what the censorship for the European elections is a million-and-a-half. We're not gonna spend a million and a half for two reasons, we think that's a lot, and the other reason is, we don't have them. Transparency is, I say, necessary primarily because we spend taxpayers' money and we do public work. A business that's not ours, that's been entrusted to us for four years, and then we get it back and we're talking about trust again. During those four years, we are at the heart of the public and everything we do from crossing the road past the zebra to the management of other people's money must be transparent and clear. That's no problem at all. What was the problem so far was not the situation on the parties' accounts. I don't remember the situation that some party seriously did something wrong with the money she had in her account, but she's in the bags. What happened in black bags and black bags didn't go through the accounts, and that's a whole different story. There were things happening that are now in court, they're not secret, now they're spinning around in courts, and there seems to be a bigger problem. However, in the principle of personal responsibilities inauguration by this law on money spent in the pre-election campaign is a good principle, especially when it comes to personal elections, so to mayors, mayors and mayors. People are proposing themselves and their parties are proposing them to head local self-government, so tomorrow they're going to have budgets. So they have to show they know how to dispose of money from their election campaign in a transparent way. I don't think there's a dilemma here, and it's not something that would make life very complicated. It's a little different, I think, with the lists. Namely, every list in every municipality, in every county, of course, and in every city, will have to open a special account. Opening an account isn't a big deal, you go to the bank and you do it in a few minutes, it's not even a very expensive job, it's not a big expense, although some expense is, but after that, it's supposed to work. Now there can be absurdity, that we want to get to one steak and kill a complete ox. The political party, for example, buys promotional material and he buys 100,000 pens with his log up and comes to the wholesaler and says give me 100,000 pens and the wholesaler says okay, because you buy 100,000 pens here's a pen of 20 kuna, 100 thousand times 20 kuna, as far as it is, wonderful and now says the client. political party but give it to me please break it into 258 invoices because I have so many lists. I have a 258 list, and I'm going to have to put it there, it's going to be spent there, I can't show it as my central cost, but it's the cost of a single campaign. Of course the wholesaler says so please go to the store and buy it, don't mess with me with that kind of stuff. We'll have a complication in business and a higher cost. Where is the ratio between this irrationality and the desire for transparency, where is a good ratio. According to Labourist, a good ratio would be at the county level, so at the county level there is an account to be paid from, and reports are given by electoral units by municipalities, cities and the county itself. This would allow parties to operate more rationally, while seeing what we want to see, where it was spent, what was done with the money. We fear that in Article 12, the system is too complicated and that it does not become intransparent from great complexity. For example, so far in the parliamentary elections, each party had one account per constituency and sent a dozen reports from that account, say, so 50 accounts and 500 reports came to the authorities that controlled it. Now we're going to have 11,000 bills and each account will have 3 reports. 33,000 financial reports. Some will say entry 0, cost 0, output 0. The municipality of 500, 600, 700 inhabitants will not spend anything, possibly the chief will cook sausages and that's the whole deal. But some of them will write, most of them will write, and the one on which they won't write, someone will need to look at it. Now, when 33,000 reports come that's a bunch, I'm not exactly God knows what big but it's probably twice my size. It's... what the Americans would say, it can't be mastered. And I'm afraid in that amount of paper transparency will actually disappear. I think the thing would be more transparent to organize at one level that can be mastered. Of course, the question is raised, as the minister mentioned, the issue of coalitions. Let's say in Sisak, the mayor or mayor seems to me to have a coalition of 11 parties, whether each of these parties will have to do all this. Well, that's completely impossible, I hope that's not what the lawmaker meant. It's really absurd and nonsense. In the previous parliamentary elections, we had a situation where each party had 10 accounts and had to give a preliminary report in each of those accounts, the central and final ones, and the provision remains still, the provision does not change. But this kind of increase in the number of accounts turns the whole thing into an abstraction, and I'm afraid knowing how our bodies work will turn it into a formality that the citizens won't actually know anything about, eventually they'll be able to look at an account in their community and so, but no one will have a complete picture. We may be able to get a complete picture in four years from the DIP, before that simply makes the law of large numbers impossible. I would pray simply if we were not to endure the amendments, I would pray that if the Minister or the Government were to look at this situation to try to take the matter down to the level of rationality, to make a good wish, a good will that was paved way down there, not to turn it into its opposite, not to get the opposite of what we actually wanted to do. However, we support the intensities, we will also support the law, and if the government doesn't do anything against it for the simple reason that we have a fixed system of financing in the party, we have a fixed system of control which the state's audit has shown, we're thrifty by definition it's known why and it's not our problem to do. The bigger problem will be for these two major parties that go to all election units, and a special problem will be for the DIP. If we could bring that problem down to a level of reason, we'd be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32190	Thank you very much. Col. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32191	Dear colleague Vuljanic, you hope that reason will win. Here, I join you in that. You said black funds weren't secret anymore. Unfortunately, they're still a secret, we don't know how black some people are in court, but we don't know how much those campaigns cost. Although at a time when the campaigns took place even the president, the former president of Croatia spoke of his rival in the second round that she spent 3 times as much money as it was shown, however, no one thought to calculate how much advertising was spent on the radio, as much as on television, as in the newspaper, as they paid to cry. Just to add it all together and say look at the prices on the market it turns out so much. No one ever wanted to. Well, I don't think the court's gonna determine that either because I see they're dealing with other things entirely. What's more important for this debate of yours is what you've been saying about the 33,000 reports that will be buried by the DIP. How will they crush those 33,000 accounts, who will read it, to whom will they report, how will we discuss it in the House? You don't know that. We're going from absurd to absurd. Before there was nothing transparent, now we've made it so transparent that it becomes even less transparent. Because 33,000 reports, who's going to read it from the MPs? I don't think anyone will. But still, what you were saying is exactly what we're swearing is that we need to centralize the supply, and now we've decentralized the supply. This pen example of yours is a good example. However, someone will profit there. He's gonna profile the banks. Every time the bank opens an account, they charge you for something. If not otherwise, the air.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32192	Replication response, Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32193	That you have the right colleague I'm always optimistic and I always believe reason will win. And I'll believe it still, it doesn't always happen, but here's hoping this time will happen. How about black funds, so black funds are by definition black. They're probably there today, but we don't know about them because they're black. We'll find out when someone comes to court, when they get to Remetinec again, someone new, and we'll find out he had black funds if he has them. Of course we can't talk about them here today except for those in court. Does anyone here today have black funds, will anyone confess? Probably no one. Therefore, this discussion is illusory. I really hope the principle of rationality wins. Everything needs to be open, we all need to know everything, but we need to do things so they work. It's no problem to prescribe, the problem is to do the job. This way, if this is how it ends up, the job will get very, very, very complicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32194	And Ivan Drmic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32195	Here I would say a few words on this subject. I listened to the presentation of colleagues and I would like to note that there are 129 cities in the Republic of Croatia, 429 municipalities, 20 counties and the City of Zagreb. So 779 campaign accounts must be opened by one party, a large party that comes out in all units of local and regional self-government to the elections. It is in my opinion that I would agree with my colleague absolutely unnecessary, and I believe that it is in one hand a rubdown of the eyes of the Croatian public that pleases especially the big parties. Because the fact is that insight and supervision of the financial surveillance campaign can be very easy to determine and implement when the party has an open one giro-account. And it's a lot easier to do that. However, when we sum up, say, SDPs or HDZs that come out in all municipalities, cities and counties, we will reach the amount of 30, 40, 50 million kunas, which is certainly a very large amount of money that large parties invest in the campaign. In this way, he tries to cut that amount, and then it is announced that in this municipality, 20 thousand kuna, in this municipality of 30, in the county of 600 and thus trying to cover up by complicating an additional situation, is the total amount that a particular party invests in the campaign. The other is a pair of shoes, i.e. the fact that smaller parties who have nothing to hide, and are doing a very transparent job is very complicated by one of these laws of making a report, regardless of what is transparent, but we in the HDSSB will surely have to open more than 100 giro accounts, more than 100 reports will do what is certain that people who run finances in our party will have to make reports and justify entirely unnecessary campaign costs to the competent institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32196	Replication response, Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32197	Unfortunately, my colleague does. Things will get complicated if you want in that accounting sense. There must be accounting work behind each of those accounts. We'll have to pay our accounting services 20 times more than we've paid for so far because we don't have an accountant professional, of course. The fact is it's the same to hide the totality of this kind of break. I don't believe that's the intention. Because finally that total can always be removed from the number by the calculator and it goes quickly out. But I'm saying it complicates life to unconsciousness really. I'm afraid people will be saved from their feet, to justify five pencils in this community, 25 in that, 30 in the left, 40 in the right. I don't know, I can't believe I can't believe that kind of fragmentation has been agreed with the representatives of the EU who, of course, have been monitoring this thing for a thousand previous reasons and Sanader, and FIMI MEDIA and everything. I don't think they've seen what that actually means, I don't think it works that way anywhere, that's impossible, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32198	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club Vice President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32199	If we didn't discuss this law in the Croatian Parliament, if it hadn't happened in Croatia then it might make sense to object to this law. This is how a debate about him should be quite brief. You shouldn't even believe too much of the power of law and be such a normative optimist. There were never laws in Croatia that were possible from public companies in the bags of money to be carried into the party. There was never a law in Croatia that could lie about campaign costs, and this happened in Croatia. Although someone wants to cheat, if someone wants to steal and is in a position to steal, they will do so with this law and without this law because it is a matter of the character of man, of those who support it and of the character of a particular party. Croatia is embarrassed in this regard, we must all look at the floor and be ashamed. We must be ashamed because the prime minister is judging us for the most common robbery as a thief, and the ruling party, once the ruling party, is a big party as a party that stole public money. How can you avoid that? Well, I think it can only be avoided when citizens realize it and such strangers no longer support it. As long as the party reads, it has 19% support, the danger exists, as it existed in the 1990s at the time of conversion and privatisation, as it has existed for the last 8 years will exist in the future, but we live in democracy, it is a matter of citizens who will be elected. If they want to be robbed, let them choose those who rob them. Keep your hand on your heart when you play anthem, and another hand, another hand to drag into someone else's pocket, into a citizen's pocket, forgive me, it's extremely immoral. This law will not prevent such a thing, but it will help, it will help citizens through the application of this law to try and at least try to regain confidence in political parties. Because what these recent events have done to politics in general, not just one party, but politics in general, it's a shame, it's an immaterial shame, but a damage that will be much more difficult to correct than eventually pay back stolen money. Because of the way one party behaves, people don't trust politicians. And people talk about us, you're all thieves, and when you lose trust in the institutions of the system, it's very difficult for such a community to advance, very difficult because trust in the system, trust in those who have chosen the foundation of the normal functioning of a community. Now he's complaining here, for God's sakes, too many bills. So listen, and we say that elections are the highlight of democracy, the festival of democracy, which they are, on election day, citizens are sovereign in a country, all power is in the hands of voters, they decide. That one day after the election and that one day. The highlight of democracy. And now those who go to compete at that peak of democracy, and it's complicated to open 77 accounts, so if they're complicated to open 77 bills, and their brothers don't compete, stay home. But if it's going to be an election then it means one effort, so if the effort is to open the account, so it says, we heard it on the Constitutional Committee, so it's not in every bank place, so it doesn't have to be in every place, so you go 20 kilometers away and you open the account. We are when, when parliamentary elections are and when we look at that promotion of all those candidates, it's pathetic to watch. They come in, they tambourine, they sing, they talk nonsense, they all compete, so when they're already competing, when they've made up their mind, I think this is, that this is going to open up one hygiene, that we at least make life a little bit more complicated for them, if anything else. And listening to them and watching them on TV, I don't think they're enough intelligence to open or open an account. So this, this is going to increase the seriousness of the election, and the election is a serious thing, the election can't be a joke, the election can't be such an extra time for someone, so I'm going now as I go. Therefore, it should not be limited or reduced to the level of the county, but each list must have its own account to see how much that list has been spent and that is a good proposal from the government and I don't think it makes any sense to oppose it. HNS has submitted an amendment that in the event of a coalition, only one party would open an account from coalition partners, so it is worth considering, too, it is worth considering. The purpose of the law must not be to harass parties, it must not be, it must not be to him. So measures must be such as to achieve a purpose but not to harass people by party. So if you were to be able to save yourself in a transparent manner and in such a way that the coalition only opens one account for a single list if they have a common list and the account is actually kept on the lists, and not by the parties, then that would make sense. So here's what I'd like to ask the motionor to consider this possibility as well. The SDP will certainly vote for this law, greet it, think it is welcome and need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32200	Thank you very much. But you haven't finished your fellow Stazic yet, you have eight replicas. Here you go, young Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32201	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Stazić, you started your discussion in a way that as if we were not aware that we were living in Croatia and you looked back on the past, that is, all the malversions that were happening and based on what politics as such is, and got this kind of reputation as it does. And after that, you said that this debate should only take a few minutes, given that the government's proposal is good, but let us others have the right to an opinion. This is the only place where we can say it, and therefore I find it incomprehensible that we should discuss it for just three minutes. The old people say the man and the donkey are smarter than the man, so let's point to something that we think might not be good. After all, the club's representative said we'll uphold the law, but we point to something that we think should possibly be fixed, done, changed. What we point to is that it is not an effort to open a jury account, but that it is a matter of quality control of it all because if it is what a colleague said 33,000 accounts that open statements of apology, it is very questionable whether the actual control will be quality or it will only be done in such a pro-form to do that obligation. In the end, and at the end of your debate, you said that the measures must be such that they do not harass people or parties but simply allow quality control of their financial operations in this part. So let's let it be really good quality and not say it gives a donation to a party but then it has to be 700 and I don't know how many bills to pay for something to make... All over the area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32202	Thank you very much. Next Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32203	Thank you very much, Vice President. If someone wants to lie and steal he'll do it with and without the law, or besides the law, it's absolutely true 100%, and that's why we're here because we're where we are, and that's why we're all declared thieves and us who never stole an apple from a tree, not and now we're all the same as Ivo Sanader, we're all the same, and that's why transparency is crucial. What I'm afraid of is that we're not going to make this a complicated life for the regulars of the locals, the locals are going to have every single account, and they're going to do it without a problem, and we're going to complicate our lives with the State Election Commission and honest people who honestly want to do it as it says in the law because otherwise and cannot. I'm afraid with a complex system, this complex system, we don't complicate our lives to unrecognizable. All right, well, if that's the condition we're gonna try, then let's try this election, and let's try it. I'm sure the results won't be good. That she wouldn't be as transparent as you'd like her to be. But let's try it if you think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32204	The replica of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32205	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's Mr. Stazic. I'll give you a line on behalf of him. I'd say almost 220 thousand honorary members and members of the HDZ who really don't have to be ashamed. They don't have to look at the floor. They didn't steal anything. They don't owe anyone anything. They will continue to hold their hands with honor because they truly have a homeland in their heart, do not laugh at their colleague Beus, and on the other hand they will not be ashamed of the 90s because these were the years when Croatia was freed and began to free itself from great Serb aggression. I was hoping that as you started your debate, you'd talk about all those thieves needing to go to jail. I was hoping you'd say and mention the SDP equally. I was hoping you'd tell us that we had this in the city of Zagreb, which was a skill for all our elections, and when Bandic didn't give it to us anymore, then we threw it out of the party neatly. However, here are all these members you have offended today, the honorable members of the party and all the other honorable people, those who are honorable, have nothing to be ashamed of, Mr. Stazic, and it would be good to always repeat it. Call your name and last name. Everyone in prison today has a name and a last name and so will those who will come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32206	Thank you very much. Replication response, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32207	I did not invite 220 thousand HDZ members to be ashamed, I said I am ashamed and all Croatian citizens because Croatia is embarrassed. Because Croatia is a country that has a former prime minister on trial. And you know who else should be ashamed of? The one who supported it, the one who clapped at him here, who jumped here on every word he said with enthusiasm. You should be ashamed. In the 1990s, it was, it was the 1990s defense against aggression but it was also a conversion, but it was both privatisation and privatisation robbery, so it was and that's why someone was responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32208	Replica, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32209	Thank you very much. Well, here's a few words, I didn't mean to answer, but my colleague Stazic does speak in one dictionary as well as his colleague Jovanovic, and that's the worst thing that can be heard in this House, so hate speech. Why would a fellow intern like that? If you were in power in 2001 and if we know how and how you privatized and favored certain entrepreneurs to buy shipyards, to rob banks, and at the same time to escape and never take responsibility. Why are you bringing up the election? Why do you mention the parties when the gentleman who testified in the FIMI Media process said openly clear and loudly I gave each other both. So how is your party financed as well as all other parties from public companies, companies. So what do you sell us democracy, what do you teach us all the time like we don't know anything here? So how come when you do it every day and it's clear to everyone? The man said it in public. On the other hand, you bring laws that are in the interest of what is being done today and where you simply show yourself to the people in every way that you simply want every man well, and at the same time you killed him and stuck him in a mouse hole with all the laws. And your support today from the public of this government is at the lowest possible level and that is proof of how you contribute to the improvement of Croatia today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32210	Thank you. But the colleagues and colleagues you're replicating read what the replica means. A colleague Josip Djakic is a replica. Excuse me, Nenad Stazic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32211	You say the worst thing that could have happened to this House is what Mr Milanovic and I are talking about. It's not. The worst happened before Milanovic became prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32212	He was talking about Minister Jovanovic. Josip Djakic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32213	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's a colleague of Vice President Stazic's, you were talking about how we should be ashamed, and we told our own public support to the state's institutions to carry out all that and to curb all the corruption and crime and so should the prime minister put in handcuffs if he was doing dishonest acts or as a politician or as Prime Minister. And that's not what we took off. But I remember the day, and I don't know how you give yourself the right to give a lesson to us, I remember the days when you deliberately attacked that judicial authority that conducted the investigations against your members. Mr. Bajic. From all your weapons, you attacked him to prevent and protect your people as "honorous" people. We have transcripts of your discussions in this House. We also remember your holidays for 7 kuna and you will give us lessons about honesty and shame. We remember all those rejected reports that you were innocent of, we remember the ones that stood in the drawers. We also remember all those times when you wanted Mr. Bajic to be executed at all costs from the top of the court.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32214	A colleague Djakic here was not talking about... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32215	Madam Vice President, don't lecture me. You didn't share with him when he started the wrong topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32216	Replicate the exposure. The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32217	Mr. Bajic, we warned him to wait too long. That he's been waiting too long to open or close some investigations like that. getting a truck. And when we warned him, we expected him to do his job more up-to-date. We're glad he accepted those suggestions. And that after a very long time, he still closed the Afera Trucks and that it resulted, though, in an inadmissible verdict. We never attacked him if he was chasing anyone from the SDP, even though I don't know, I can't remember any of his charges now. And what you said was that criminal charges were dropped as you said were rejected because nothing happened. And they're like innocents. So see if anyone is innocent and not so the court decides in this country, so you won't be doing it no matter how hard you try. Well, you can object to us whatever you want, but for us, the relevant institutions of the system are. So do you know how to look at the clock? Let's learn to watch the clock. Here you see that seconds go down, that means I have 14 seconds left. But I think I mostly said what I had to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32218	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32219	Dear fellow Stazic, you said one sentence that elections or that context is, don't literally understand me, that elections are a festival of democracy. It's completely true, but it's not a accounting festival. We're not saying it's hard for you to open the accounts, try to close the bank account. It's even harder to close those accounts. If you think the account number will stop the thief, it won't, you said it yourself, depends on the character of the man, it'll steal, it won't steal. On the contrary, all those who wanted to blur the money, all those who wanted and who had blacked out the money they were doing, were opening up new accounts for their company's daughter so that they could move from hollow to empty and clean up those bills of money. Nothing with these accounts is going to come out of transparency. I find it quite the opposite, and of course we are for the transparent business of parties, we warn about it, but we think we'll make our lives miserable, that that proposal gives 20 counties to have their own accounts and to have the money.... Which is not easier to control 20 accounts than to control 700 accounts. Now if it's really easier for 700 bills, then it's even easier for 1400 or 2700 bills. Then let's go to absurd. That's what we're warning you about. We don't even have a problem with that law, but our problem is logic, because we don't understand first of all, they're not the ones who don't understand accounting, we're going to need accounting. It's easy for SDP to have real estate, so he'll pay. Some parties don't have money, and they don't have sponsors that are under the skin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32220	Ivan Drmic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32221	My colleague Stazic, as far as I know and I don't think it's changed that the Croatian Constitution guarantees every Croatian citizen the right to be elected and elected. So I'm a little surprised by your statement in your statement that the task of this law that we bring is to make it difficult for the candidacy to appear in certain regulations in the Croatian elections. I would not agree with you, I think that even under the Croatian Constitution everyone has the right to run, so I think that we are obliged here in this Croatian Parliament to pass such laws that will spread democracy, which will further develop democracy and encourage all people to run for elections, were they professors, doctors, rickets or I don't know what you're still calling them. I will ask you what will happen once your party is not in power, when it is not your Government, when it is not your majority in the Croatian Parliament, but it is some other majority, some other party, and some other people will have their own criteria to assess who is rare, and who, for example, by some criteria of their own, makes it a conclusion that you are a rare person and that they have a task and a duty to pass some laws to make your candidacy difficult for you, to make it impossible for you. I wonder what direction your debate will be in then, and will you think, as it is today, that it is one right of the ruling majority to make it difficult for those persons for whom, according to some of their criteria, they think they're rediculous and they didn't deserve to run.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32222	Replication response, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32223	You're absolutely right. The constitution allows everyone to be redacted, and the results of the elections sometimes do so in some environments and confirm it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32224	And Silvano Hrelja, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32225	Dear Vice President Stazic, I cannot agree with one finding that the debate on this law should take a short while. I think this law is one law that every parliamentary MP, every politician should know up to in detail. Unfortunately, we sitting here don't all have the same experience in running political campaigns, namely the big party also have campaign directors who take care of everything and everything, and we in small parties have to start from membership, organisation and we have to take care of every possible detail. I think this law deserves a very high-quality, reasoned debate because I will later present in my debate, because what is threatening to do should not happen to us if we adopt such a law, which is that even the SDP and HDZ will not be able to go to elections in municipalities and cities where they do not have their own organisational form registered. If you read the law well then you will realize that it exists as a danger, and that is still limiting democracy. I think parties under current, current law can go to any local self-government unit in the elections whether they have organised their basic organization or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32226	The word was requested by Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32227	Thank you, Madam Vice President. There is actually one thing that has been crystallized here that is then symbolized through this number of accounts, from the organisation of parties in this political sense, to the organisation of parties within the party that can be viewed by the relations of political different levels within the leadership or by this financial decentralisation of parties, for example, so that it can also be viewed by the organisation of certain branches, and can be viewed by the responsibilities of individual parties. The most transparent is this as proposed by the government and it has its technical difficulties in a large number of accounts. Now, the question is, who's damaged by the fact that someone's been over the cost of the campaign? So, if he broke the rules that apply to everyone. His political rivals were primarily damaged because they were playing by the rules, and the one who broke the rules was therefore the most damaged. Because it's possible that all the funds from the legal elections are transparent, they've exceeded the limit but its rivals are primarily damaged. They will be the first interested to review an account that will be publicly published on the HIDRE sites, so they are the first interested. And they're probably not interested in how much competition they spent next door. Because they didn't compete there. They may be interested as citizens, as passive observers of political matches, but they are most interested in their campaign. And of course they'll be the ones who, and they're in the political game, and after the election, will react to that violation of the rules. It's very logical and certain to me. If this is a violation of the rules so much that requires greater involvement of other institutions, it is that some institutions are doing their job, it will also be based on public control, on the basis of control and the media and state institutions. So it will be very likely to be made public and will be done for sure now. So it's important that we know where we can find something, not that we now look at, read, and remember everything there. Transparency is that you know what data and where you can find them and that they are therefore in one normal amount of data. Well, the second question is the account number. That's where we're talking from different positions. I will now, I don't think I'm going to step out of the business provisions, put myself in the position of the president of a county organization of a party. Here, I am quite accidentally acting on this duty, but from the perspective I do not want to answer, and not even for personal, politically certainly, of course, because everything a member of one party does is implicitly or indirectly destroying the legitimacy, credibility and all the other members of that party, but I am talking about political. Because a long time ago, someone mentioned that sintagmu of mangoons in their own ranks. Therefore, as someone who no longer wants to be held accountable personally for something that could have been committed by a party colleague of mine in his mayoral campaign. It may occur to me that I'm campaigning for the county, and at the same time on the radio or on television, I'm watching videos of my colleagues from cities that don't go through an account that I sign if it's just at the county level and I'm wondering where, how and why, and I'm still responsible for it. That should match the one who does it, regardless of party membership. Not only do I not want to answer for him, I want to punish him regardless of party membership. So I don't want that account to hide activities at the lowest level or that someone can't trace it because that's all in one account. Between these two, therefore, these simplicity and these other responsibilities, we have decided to keep it at the levels of cities and municipalities. The next question, the coalition – this is where this story can be turned now and whether we will now and for our coalition partner or for the coalition partner of anyone else, so that part will be analyzed further, so it is possible that this number of accounts will be reduced to being one per coalition. In this case, the parties will, in general, be quite a small number of accounts and that will normally be a smaller number of accounts to the parties that are generally a smaller partner in coalitions. So that's a reduction in number. But this part of the responsibility I really think for every campaign and every constituency should be that responsibility. The next question is the opening of an account. And now I'm going to return to the position of the president of the county level because local elections are the biggest problem. There is no problem at this national level, 10 electoral units or for the European Parliament 1. I got a mayoral candidate from my party and he says, "You know, we have a problem opening an account." Well, it's a bigger problem for me to go tell the citizens that they're voting for you if you're having trouble opening an account. So I think to get there, so supporting such a candidate is a problem for me personally as well as a party colleague. Of course, that goes for, probably other parties. And in the end, when all of this is evaluated, I think that this solution is also for political relations, and also for relations within the parties most correctly with these possible repairs. So every local election in the smallest municipality is an event but only for that municipality. First-class political event, but only for that community. It's not for the neighboring community. It's for their choices. I've never been prone to demeaning and underestimating small municipalities by the number of inhabitants, here's the look of Mr. Malacan who's the head of one of the smaller municipalities but they say she's successful, and even citizens confirm that they're at least bored, maybe from now on, or they can find someone from both sides and HDZ. Therefore, maybe municipalities with a small number of inhabitants have their own... I don't know if it would be considered a campaign if we didn't have to show it as a free commercial in these... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, and Mr. Mateo can show it as his own means to the party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in this sense, this is the solution we are aware that it has its shortcomings but these shortcomings are smaller than the good things and things that can be avoided in the location, and then the transfer of the responsibilities of individuals for their election campaigns. Here, that's what I had to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32228	Here's before the replica one notice. All members of the Legislative Committee are informed that the committee session will be held on Friday (February 15th) at 10.00h at Josip Jelačić's hall, which is central. And now we're moving on to replicas. Dear Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32229	Dear Mr. Minister, in my experience and in my experience, the number of jury accounts and jury accounts is not a prerequisite for transparency. In fact, I'm trying to ask you now, what if in one coastal town, a small municipality has a tribune at the time of the election campaign, they'll spend three, four thousand kuna, but look at the devil on that day, the tourist community will spend 100,000 euros and throw a party for all the locals. What does the tourist community have to do with the tribune has to do with it is make decisions in the tourist community when there will be parties, people who are sympathisers, members of the party. Now you tell me if this solves a jury account and is this a transparent spending of public funds, and will this law prevent it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32230	Replication response. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32231	So the answer to the question is whether it solves the jury account, solves to the extent that it will be clear that the activity did not go through the jury account and is not part of the election campaign. And if the bill were for 30 or 40 municipalities once, then even someone would dare to show that it's just that account from someone else, but good. The second question is, is this a transparent spending of money, absolutely. Because that purposeful spending of money absolutely isn't. However, it is absolutely also true that every participant of the election game, especially those who do not decide on the money of the tourist community, should report it to the State Election Commission, or the Commission of the local self-government units, that this should be determined, and that there are then elements for the conduct of the police, the state's attorney's office, this can be debated. Unfortunately, after the election, but you know how it is, justice is, and you know, counting on collective oblivion hasn't proved very successful in recent years, so I guess that standard of not forgetting will continue, at least we'll do what we want, so that works right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32232	The minister is also replicated by respected counterpart Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32233	In your speech, you said that even competitors would control competitors. You are forcing us again to do the job of the rule of law, but I will remind you, in the 2007 elections, that every election has been set up, written, that many parties have violated the amount of money they have shown, that they are three times more. And the SDP in the City of Zagreb spent a lot more in 2009 and it was constant, they even summed up posters, they added up commercials, and what happened? Nothing, forget it, what you just said wasn't going to happen, is going to happen. Sometimes they want to judge someone, sometimes they won't judge someone. You assume as if we are a legal state, as if we were Switzerland or Sweden, we are neither Switzerland nor Sweden, the number of accounts will not prevent a thief from cheating, nor will you in 700 accounts, in fact not 700 can be thousands, may be a list of mayors, may be a list for the assembly. You won't stop it. You said you couldn't trace, you couldn't trace the money in one account, how you couldn't, you could do one centralized account, I mean everything that world business, big systems, small systems is the opposite of what you're talking about. That's exactly what I said, when he wants to get clouded and when he wants to get his money out, that's when he opens up countless accounts. And that's exactly what we do, but not because, let me say again, which would be hard for us to open, it's not hard and we'll do it by law and we'll respect the law, and it'll be all in June, right, but I think you're wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32234	Time. Minister Bauk responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32235	So, as far as the account number is concerned, you will likely agree that it is easier to spot when there are more accounts than there are fewer, or when there is one. It's something like that for you when an account is broken into a few smaller ones so that it doesn't have to be conducted by public procurement, but it's 100 times 5, and then it's 5 times less than 1,000 kuna. And I think that's very logical, actually interpretation. And as for the solutions proposed, therefore in the debate, the final text of the law insisted on these solutions by those institutions dealing with it, so the State Audit Office and the State Election Commission. So the government would be, I think, that the government could propose beyond the opinion of the DIP or the State Audit Office, but I believe that such a solution would be exposed to even greater criticism, so what we did was in the best interest of working with the institutions that are competent. If there's a possibility of any more corrections and repairs, here and now I've given the open opportunity to fix something else in the frame, and here I believe that the intensity is good, and then we'll fix things in the walk if we have to fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32236	Now we're going to continue the club debate. So I invite the respected Josip Salapic to present the positions of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32237	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. After all these possible combinations presented by the minister, which would be, which may and may not be, to present proposals on the debate would be best if today, on 20 May 2013, it were all simple, this burden, as we say, to be removed from the door. Because it can really be good, but it can be bad. What the HDSSB Club advocates, and it is good that the promoter accepted our proposal in the first reading, which is the cost of following the European Parliament's electoral company to reduce from 10% to 5% of the votes won, and it compensates for the election costs of cities in the counties. It is good that here is the proposal of our club included in this final text of the law and we, of course, support and thank you for entering the final text of the law. If there really could be problems with the conduct of the election, the issue of the law shouldn't be just if there were going to be account numbers, but it's really too much, it really opens up a number of issues that need to be discussed because that's the text of the law that's ahead of us. What we want to achieve is the transparency of choice. I don't think there should be too much reference to the past, it was seen that this bill was based on parliamentary elections about the same way in 2011. Since then, there have been fewer of these accounts because the electoral units have been different to the provision of a million-and-a-half kuna per constituency have been easier than the numerous reports that will come after these elections. That we should be aware of this because, regardless of the recommendations of the European Commission on opening a special account, no one has told us that this must be exactly this combination and this way that is proposed by this law, this is a matter of the legislator and the matter of assessment so that all participants in the elections and the State Election Commission, later State Audits and, above all, ourselves here today, because to vote whether it will be a good thing that we propose will show, of course, the course I am the course of the elections that are ahead of us and the way in which the political party is going to be held, independent candidates will run for representatives in representative bodies or for mayors, mayors or mayors, we will see whether it is really good that the legislator proposed in this text of the law. And so far, the debates have brought about the doubts and associations that took part in the debate with the State Election Commission and with the Ministry here and today in the Assembly whether we will really be able to carry out quality oversight by the State Election Commission and then the State Audit that will be doing all these post-election reports, whether this is really possible given the large number, we have heard 33 thousand reports. There will be reports that will have one zero for those small communities where no kuna will be spent in the electoral company, and in some it will be complicated. For all concerned the same, simply too much paperwork, too much administration for elections, and the purpose is to achieve the transparency of the election. We think at the club that we could do it and it means better solutions. So here is a colleague, Djurovic, mentioned to me before the debate what if the pre-election material is obtained in one county, then each official, each candidate in each electoral unit in the municipality, will have to share it in their report, so from one joint amount of county to each candidate in the municipalities, so they will write how many pens, lighters, blocks, which already in the elections and whether it will be more transparent and whether it will be able to be better controlled than if it were a single county account, we can assess it ourselves, and it is already obvious that it would be better if it were different than the legislator proposes this bill. We think that it would be better if it were led to one of the party's central accounts by election units, by the county to be easier to control, to send reports but to reduce the costs of opening, closing accounts in banks. It is also a questionable notification under the law that it will be possible to control that banks are obliged to provide information to the State Election Commission without the conclusion of specific agreements on special open election accounts. Whether this is legally possible and whether it will be enforceable in practice, this also raises one question about how banks will report by official duty the State Election Commission on specifically open accounts. There will also be the closure of the DIP with all other duties that the State Election Commission has in the elections, so it is not only the control of these accounts, the opening of an account in the electoral company and the deadlines provided for by law, but also those other electoral obligations and duties that the State Election Commission should carry out in the electoral company. So this will only perhaps further complicate the work of the state electoral commission in terms of quality and transparent implementation of the electoral company. As far as other legal solutions are concerned, we have already discussed this in the first reading of the law. I said it is good that the proposed opposition were respected, this increase in costs for the city of Zagreb with 500 thousand per million kuna and in the counties in larger cities from 400 thousand to 600 thousand kuna was also well anticipated by the legislator because these costs were indeed higher in these larger election units and it was therefore insane to expect that it would be 500 thousand kuna enough for an election campaign, for example in the Croatian capital in Zagreb. Once again, we thank the legislator for supporting our proposal in the first reading of the law, and what nobody has mentioned at the end of this debate, it is good that this control of the media company, therefore these costs of the media, pjar agencies, advertising costs on the radio and television are also foreseen by this law, that not only the candidates in the electoral company in their cost shows will have to be shown crediblely how much they spent on media and advertising on television and radio, but also TV and radio stations and radio stations and newspapers, that not only the candidates in this proposal of the law will be publicly announced how much the prices of election campaigns and promotions per candidate are, as well as the costs that are easy to create one balanced democratic procedure that all candidates who are therefore competing in these elections that are equal and this media section of their promotions, and that are also so that 50% of the costs that will be borne by the public campaigns will be publicised, and the public campaigns will be paid by all the public, and the public campaigns will be kept. So in this part of the form of the law, we support it, but we still need to consider until the final vote whether this issue of the report can be resolved differently so as not to be covered by unnecessary accounting and financial documents which, at the end of the case, can also make it difficult for the electoral company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32238	Thank you very much. You thanked the legislator for accepting your suggestions, but we're the legislators, and the government is just a proposing. We have three replicas. First Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32239	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, there are things that are hard to explain how to justify. And in every list of excuses should be on the smallest municipality where sausages are from, whether it's a donation, where ham or prosciutto all of these should be written as donations and presented. By all the laws we have today. It will be equally difficult to tell when the individual who is running for mayor is in second office and the holder of the list for the county assembly. Likewise for the head of the municipality and for the bearer of the representative body. that these accounts will be divided and the justifications are likely to be a question in this law that is not defined and settled. Therefore, 33,000 reports will surely bury what is wanted to be seen and removed from reality in order to make it transparently clear and transparently funded by political parties. We know ourselves that many times, regardless of what the SDP received the last report, probably the revision had in mind that they would be in power, so it got unconditional evaluation, all other years were conditional and all other years were non-transparent as we heard in Zagreb and even in some other environments, but no investigations were conducted, no measure of how it was financed and who was giving money. And we remember the statement in Mr. Milicic's court that he said, but I was giving one and the other from that same company that's in trouble today. There, a series of others and each other were given to have a political opportunity to acquire state money.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32240	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32241	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Djakic, I agree with your thesis and the fears you have raised in your discussion in view of my discussion on behalf of the club. We should certainly make elections more transparent and we are all together here complex that we are so that these campaigns pass in a different atmosphere than they have so far. Everyone will spend as much as they can. I personally think that this campaign will be not so expensive, we are not exactly in a great economic position in the country that anyone will be able to spend too much money on the campaign but until the final vote that we need to think about whether we need this kind of regulation with this number of accounts and these financial gaps that this law makes. We can certainly change that by the time we vote. That elections should be such that they are primarily easy to implement in a democratic atmosphere and that voters are all clear after the elections to know who they chose. And that the legislator or we as a Croatian Parliament can bring solutions that will be better than this one so far, that certainly is. We stand for this to be one electoral unit or county one bill which will be an account for all cities and for all counties and for the city of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32242	Second replica of the esteemed Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32243	Dear counterpart Salapic, you have argued that this law has a significant impact on the transparency of the election. I think it is right to believe that this law acts on part of the transparency of elections because this law certainly does not speak about what happens on election boxes, in counting, in various other possible malversions in the electoral process. And also to say that this whole law speaks of transparency also does not have to be true because there is something that is the target area in which new and greater transparency should be placed, and these are donations. Regular party financing I haven't heard yet in this assembly that someone has something against, it's completely transparent it might be that there's some document missing in spending funds etc. But it's a felony responsibility. However, what is in the eyes of what civil society associations are rightly focusing on is donations. Why? Well, it's because you don't give dental donations because someone loves a party, but sometimes someone gave something to someone in the executive power to give in representative authority is expecting it. Let's let go of that beautiful love and romance because the fact that it doesn't exist for me. Thus, it is a targeted area that needs more attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32244	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32245	I agree with your esteemed colleague completely with you. It's one suspicious area that's been so far, and it's a good thing it's been so regulated by law. That's what we support. Is there really going to be such a solution that after the election, someone will spend the campaign and return a donation to their payer and whether these are the times or not we will see it at the election campaign? But certainly it's one area that's most important to this law. Sometimes it is also important to mention that the doubts expressed by the Russian Commission by giving us recommendations on what kind of law we should pass because of some of the concerns we have had so far in the election campaigns. Let's say one Sweden or Switzerland have absolutely no regulated issue of party financing in the campaigns because they have a level of corruption in the political action of zero. Thus, a single company has overall confidence in the system and there is no need to regulate the issue by law neither donations nor payments to the parties. So I believe that by joining the EU, we too will be able to look up to one of Sweden and Switzerland and countries that have such solutions in the law where there are no such concerns and questions as to what would happen in view of all the doubts that have been thrown into politics and politicians in election campaigns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32246	And the last replica, the respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32247	Thank you. So here's my colleague Salapic, don't you think that perhaps the legislator is just out of this fear from some corrupt events that marked the political past in the Republic might have a little out of line with all this legislation? Finally, in his performance, the minister actually performed in a way that he fears political corruption, which is why it is better to prevent this legislation from getting worse. I think we must still have little confidence in this Croatian society, yet it is a little different than it was 5 or 10 years ago. And we can't go crazy, I mean, this law is really insane in a whole series of its elements, we can't stop the rule of law from doing its job. We can't even stop those people who want to break the laws to break them, they're going to break them because in this law, at the end of the day, whatever it is, we're not talking about 10,000 euros that someone's going to put into someone's hands and someone's just going to spend it. So these money that can appear from hand to hand they can always exist and we can't regulate them by law, but with some over-normation and this kind of crumbling on these vast, numerous electoral units, municipalities and cities and then dozens of lists that will appear in them, and these tens of thousands of accounts that will open and under the influence of various associations, all of which have the idea of what should be done best for this Croatian society, I think we should still have little more trust in the development of this society as it is, and also in the development of this political system of its system as it is, and I think that even if you think so, you won't exactly repeat it in the time that comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32248	The replica corresponds to Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32249	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Đurović fully agrees with you, we were in fear that we would never complete the negotiations and that it would all come down to Chapter 23, we had to pass laws that we had to change very quickly because it was not in accordance or enforceable sometimes in our legal system. That there will be such legal solutions that we will quickly change after entering the Union I am sure of because this monitoring is, sometimes European officials who have looked at our laws commenting on our solutions and giving suggestions and orders what we have to do, perhaps even in their own countries did not have that. I am in favour of Croatia's full entry into the European Union, we have made too much effort and too much fighting and we have passed a lot of laws to make our country, not only laws, but we have completely changed the system to become members of the European Union, but we do not need to pass more rigorous laws than they really do in some European countries, and I am sure that after this election, after these elections, this law will need to be amended because the problems will arise. The law should serve those who participate in the elections, they are politicians, independent candidates who will be in the campaign, but that there will be problems changing the law, I am 100% sure, not the other way around because these great administrative solutions and orders will simply bury the election campaign with accounting finances. Someone said from a colleague at the Labour Club, it's going to be a accounting festival, not a democracy festival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32250	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HNS club will speak the esteemed Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32251	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with his associates. We are ahead of us with a proposal to improve the 2011 law and, above all, on the basis of the experiences we have gained in the application of this law after the previous parliamentary elections. However, it should be acknowledged that it is not a real and real test of the functionality of this law because it is also the number of election units, then according to that and the number of candidate lists and candidates in a large disproportionate manner with what is yet to be met, it is its full application in the local elections in May this year. Many of my predecessors tried to penetrate the reasons why such a law was ever passed. I would like to remind you that by 2011, there was a special Law on the financing of political parties which included, among other things, the area of financing, indirect and political campaigns. However, according to our fearsome experiences and one general culture of corruption in politics, it came to a point after which it could not be ignored that there was actually public money laundering in the area of political promotion, political promotion and candidacy in the policy area. Not only the racketeering of private financiers, but also the laundering of public money. And then we pressed the whole series of cases in public that have endlessly broken the reputation of politics and politicians in the Republic of Croatia we have actually come to the conclusion that we are doing a new law that will define on some new principles the rules of the game at all levels of choice, except for local elections because, as you see this law and no one else mentions the elections for local self-government at all. Experiences from previous parliamentary elections have been valuable, in particular experiences that have come from the State Audit, or from the DIP, and all those participating today in this process from the position of professional members of government structures, or us politicians. Only those who run local campaigns, only those who are at the party level in the local environment or regional environment were able to run certain campaigns know what it means and what it all consists of, such a complex process and how important it is to have a direct experience in order to understand this process because the intensity of each law and this law must be achieved functional solutions, so solutions that will be clear, clear, easily binding, even easier to apply, and then ultimately give a matrix that will clearly read how money is spent. Those who approach the criticisms of the proposal are right to say that a kind of inflation of the jury can lead to a reduction in transparency of the whole process. Yes, that's true, because we on one side can determine to the norms all of these obligations and the opening of the jury accounts and the reporting of not one but three, not three, but ten, but the question is, what after that? Who is able to process all this information and about the giro accounts and all the information contained in the reports? Compar them with real balances in the account, combine them with reports that they received on the financing of political parties for regular work and determine whether there is actually some kind of space that raises doubts about how the funds were available. On the other hand, those who say the key problems at their disposal in public and private campaigns cannot be monitored through accounts and definitely have nothing to do with bank accounts. These are cash payments, these are payments in natural donations, i.e. donations of different types of sausages, apples, mandarins, and including the means of promotions that someone left and donated free of charge, i.e. free of charge. So there's a room for manipulation much, much bigger than the one that's able to track every regulated system through bank accounts. It is true that one who is unable to go to a nearby bank, open an account, pay the fee for its opening, pay the fee for its closure, print three reports on the A4 page is not a very serious actor of any election procedures. Yeah, that's right. But I'm not sure that, as my colleague Stazic said in his debate on behalf of the club, we will reject these solutions from the election. As far as I know, Ridicules currently have enough money, even as many of them over whom we scandal and in politics have a lot of, a lot of money maybe than all of us here together. So it won't stop them. They may be prevented by other institutes, but ultimately they will be prevented by the will of the citizens. I would like to say that we from the HNS and in the first reading, and even during the discussions on committees, have warned that it is possible to simplify the procedure in some ways, and then, consequently, to reduce this famous number of 11 thousand accounts if this law recognises the party coalition institute. Namely, our Electoral Law does not prevent parties from joining in a pre-election coalition, and in that sense, it would not be bad for this law to recognize the institute. Coalitions rest on inter-party agreements. Each party taking part in the procedure and going out together with other partners in the elections shall determine their relations with each other by that agreement, either in the basic or the annexes. In this regard, we also propose to simplify this story in a way that allows coalitions to highlight a common candidate or a common candidate, that is, a common list because it is aimed at monitoring the cost of a particular candidate's campaign, i.e. a candidate, or a particular candidate list. So, since it is already so that it is actually done through one account which will open any of these 2, 3, 4 or 5 political parties, of course by authority with agreement with the other partners. So if the coalition lays down an inter-party agreement that defines the DIP matter is very simple, on behalf of one coalition one party will open one account for candidates for executive power, another account for candidates for representative and we will have two accounts. How the parties will agree between themselves on the distribution of costs, i.e. the obligation to pay income to that account from which the costs will be financed, that is their business. They can define this with regard to the relations of forces on the list, given how much local ratings they have, given how much logistics they can provide. So that's their internal thing. And there shouldn't be too much to worry about. In this way, as far as local elections are concerned, I'm guessing we're going to cancel somewhere around 4,000 potential gyro-accounts. And it doesn't matter if it's 5, 6 or 11, 12. And in this sense, here is our constructive contribution to this debate to try to pass the law by amendment if I am not wrong in Article 12 of these amendments and supplementation to reduce this problem. In any case, we need to know that we are a political nation with a highly developed corrupt culture. That this is particularly reflected in political life and political processes and that time will pass, but we should be aware that we are not lonely or worst in this. That, in fact, the principles of functioning in the process of political promotion and communication with voters are changed for the better, to a higher level of responsibility. To get away from those bad experiences, it's gonna take time. In this regard, we will also need the experience of concrete choices. I am sure that the elections in May and the second round seem to me June 2nd this year will help me see actually the functionality of this legal solution in full of its profile. Maybe not right away, maybe just at the end of the year when all the reports are collected, when the DIP and the State Audit draw a line under this story and when they sum up all the concrete experiences but then we might be able to go one step further, adjust this model to achieve its simplicity and functionality. Until then, it is our obligation to support such an approach which is in principle going towards increasing transparency of public spending, because political parties mainly use funds from public sources, it is a dominant income. And in this sense, the HNS Liberal Democrats club supports this proposal by the government and we will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32252	Thank you, too. The following are replicas, first respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32253	Dear fellow Beus, if it were true that your findings of ridicules have money, they have it more than we all do together. After all, the Ridicules are at the top of politics, they're running cities, they're manipulating billions, we read it daily, we're disgusted by it, but the rule of law doesn't react. Just so the same story doesn't happen again, we have 700 bills, but the campaign is three times more expensive than the collection of money in those 700 bills. We've done a transparent business, we've opened 700 accounts, it says something in those accounts, when we've summed it up together, we've seen that this bill doesn't work. Who's in this business? We know well who should have done the job before and who should have done the work in the future. The thing is, it doesn't increase transparency by the number of bills because someone has already said it before, it can't be controlled if someone gives 10 thousand kunas under the table and 10 thousand euros, it can't be seen, but you can see the number of posters, you can see the number of commercials, there's a party sharing 100 or 200 thousand ballots, putting it in boxes. So we have to, the rule of law needs to be monitored, I don't need politicians watching each other and reporting their unfounded suspicions. Only then will we cause great chaos on the political scene.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32254	The answer to the replica Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32255	Your suspicions are not baseless, they are also based on what we read in the media, thus following the development of a political situation, or democracy in Croatian political society. Thousands and thousands of reasons to stop believing in his health, but our conscience does not allow it. So we can't, and we can't agree to such an approach, to the conclusion that it's only going to be worse every day. It's our job, and that's what we've devoted ourselves to, just by passing the law and by constantly speaking about it, to make sure it's better tomorrow, that the thieves can be seen better. It's not up to us to push them because he didn't have the means, but if we light them up with good solutions, then someone who's going to process them like the law does. And those rickets which you mention, which lead some cities, have no worse punishment for the voters than to be disappointed by the one whom he voted for and to bring him to shame in front of the whole nation. I believe in the ability of these people who voted for these people, that in the next election they won't make that mistake again, and even if they are able to do it by instinct, I call on them to think again well, according to our party's, one parish "Be careful who you choose.". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32256	Another replica, the esteemed Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32257	Dear fellow Beus, of course, you have made it possible for the legislator to accept or not accept the amendment that you have explained. And you said it was safe to see in June the actual reach and results of this law, but the esteemed colleague Beus isn't that a method of his own skin, is it not an unscienceal method, should we not be, whether we are, it's a second question of serious and responsible, and knowing what we're talking about and knowing the system, knowing the system's faults and trying to improve the system. Is that what we decide about citizens every 4 years by giving us or not giving us confidence? But I think we have a critical mass of experiences here, that we're competent to say if something, as you said yourself, is clear and easy to implement, or if something is too much and too complicated. And I think we need to have a sense of measure here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32258	The answer to the replica Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32259	It would be easier for me to answer that some people respond well to antibiotics, some not. And I think you deserve more, you deserve among other things to explain why I trust this government and why I trust Minister Bauk. I'm going to tell you, among other things, because today in this House, we've been discussing a whole new z+Law on the right to access information. It is also a signal to me, that the team led by Minister Bauk, who himself is a party official at the local level who himself ran campaigns and knows what it is, has the best intention of leading this issue to a single level that will be acceptable to everyone. That is why we have also proposed certain changes and are actively involved in this debate, above all we who have been through this local experience. I do, that's the kind of trust I have and I'm sure you share that kind of trust with me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32260	And the last replica of the respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32261	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I was encouraged by my esteemed colleague Beus to see how we will agree that politics is an honorable job, how we will agree that the campaign and the space in which we are fighting for the trust of our voters, our constituents are the place where we have to show ourselves. If we can't do it differently, then we have to show it with the help of the law that will provide us with mechanisms for the way of money to be transparent. Surely sometimes when we don't have other models, when we have a country where unfortunately today we don't have a zero tolerance rate on corruption. We need to create legal frameworks that we will follow exactly this way of money in the campaign, unlike what the distinguished colleague Vuksic here said about the visible work of the campaign of that large number of flyers, jumbo posters, commercials and what these reports show. We must all try to show together that we are doing this honorable and responsible job as a public good and that we will work in this way later on when this campaign is over. Although unfortunately we can't do otherwise, then perhaps the only way to put it is to put it in the legal frameworks and force all of us together to behave according to certain standards. Of course, it would be much simpler to take into account what a coalition is or take into account that not every local level is equally large and equally attractive and that there will not be only one, two or three candidates on all of them, but that we will probably have a large number of coalition lists and that it might be much simpler to consider that it is one group of citizens who are together behind a particular solution and who are jointly responsible and then to show it through this amendment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32262	Replication response, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32263	My colleague Posavec, you're the guilty one. Our political generation needs to be disciplined by law. I would like those who come behind us not to be disciplined by the laws when it comes to handling public money and dealing with campaigns, and I would therefore like them to be affected by civic education. And to finally get him into school, that every early-onset child finds out how a society that wants to be honorable, honest and that opens perspectives to its citizens. That we should be disciplined by the laws, and that's why we're here, but here's the call for you and all of us to make sure that our children in these problems find out already at school, that they're being taught about active and responsible citizenship, and that tomorrow when they come to the opposition that someone wants to corrupt them in politics to reject it, and that they're telling me it's more worth my face, what I know and what I want to do for the benefit of everyone than any other method of getting into politics and political function. There's a challenge.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32264	Last club, club of HSU and respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32265	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. I've learned the same thing now in these replicas before, my colleague Beus has shown me how to defend the amendment to praise the minister then has a better chance of passing the amendment, but I share the same opinion. I really think that the minister will take all these remarks into account and eventually fix this law in the best possible way because there are some shortcomings. Of course, I would like to say in advance that the HSM Club will support everything that is good in this law, and there is no dilemma and there is no question that we want to block any good future solutions. But I would now if the minister had a minute, I would now very vividly express myself that I am experiencing the current system of financing political parties, so we had some time, we had this funding, we could call it a wastewater system all together, then we separated the rainwater from the fecal waters and now we analyze each for ourselves. If we claim that the rainwaters are regular funding then we have annual reports, we have audits, we have party bodies, supervisory committees that control funding, so everything has to be covered. We also have donations, and for donations, we have an analysis of how they work, we call them these dirty waters, and we need them under this law, not now according to the amendments and supplements, but under the existing law, we need to give a report to the local self-government unit whether someone has received a donation twice a year or not. That's what most parties don't even know it's under obligation. It only responds when the local community sends one such request. We should have opened a new account by now because I have as president of the party's application because we haven't opened an account for the extraordinary election in Lokva. Of course we spent zero, zero came in because we were in the coalition, of course we didn't have some result and there's no basis for being punished for it, but under the existing law we should have opened this account already in the extraordinary elections last year. So we're not introducing anything new, so these are fantastic control systems that we have. And now we come up with a proposal for this law, a bill in Article 12 that says these two separate sources of funding now we will throw into a new account that will open each party to itself and to its own list, to our candidate, and we will reunite the funds that came from the donations and the funds that we planned to spend in regular funding for the elections. So these two sources are reassembled into a common account. Why? Why do we do this, I do not understand it because Article 13(1) says that we must plan the funds from regular funding that we will spend in the election campaign. And says the next item, the own funds that political parties of independent lists or the lists of a group of candidates intend to spend on... must be paid to a special account as set out in Article 14 of the law. Why are we putting this together now? Which means we were wrongly accused as a party because we shouldn't have opened that account because we didn't have any donations. Now we're told you have to open up a no-donation and you have to transfer the funds from the regular party's business to that account. We claim you shouldn't. If I've planned them in regular funds that I have in the municipal, city or county account or the party's central account, so I've divided them into how much I'm going to give to someone in regular funding, I think that's quite enough because it's predictable and controlling. Just enough and you don't need to open a new account. So in the amendment, we propose that this should be deleted so that these funds are mixed up in Article 211's position to delete, while also leaving the possibility that one who does not plan donation funds does not have to open a new budget, i.e. a new account with a business bank. So we're trying to make it easier. We are not in favour of this solution that we have amended to propose that other solutions should be excluded. No, it would be best if a solution proposed by a colleague, Beus, on behalf of the CNS, were passed because it significantly facilitates the financing of election promotion and election campaigns at coalitions, and this is something else that we would say when we go to elections on our own. So once again, our proposal, the proposal of the HSU, is that non-predicting parties do not have the obligation to open a special account. The situation is completely clean to control it. I won or I didn't get donations. If I'm not, why are you harassing me that I have to open the account? The solution offered to us limits democracy. I was saying something in the replica about it. Why? According to the proposed solutions, a party that has no registered organisational form in a municipality, city or county cannot go to elections. Not because it's against this law but because the bank won't open an account if it doesn't have an open account it can't go to elections. Why won't the bank open her account? Have you tried opening accounts for your organisational units? You can't open an account unless you're registered at the Department of Administration as an organisational part of a particular party. Therefore, according to this decision that we now have in the law, it is impossible to go to elections where we do not have organisational forms that are registered in our statutes. With us are municipal, city, county organizations, somewhere they are municipal, city, county branches or whatever they are called. But this current proposed solution limits that election date. I am also free to propose one solution in front of the HSU party because we are talking about the whole law, we are not just talking about gyro accounts and financing, faced with one fact that in 2011 56 political parties did not give their financial report for 2011. It is the Action of the Croatian Republican Peasant Party, the Autochthon Croatian Party of Rights, Bani, the Democratic Enough Exotic Names Here The Economic Party, the Civil Party Sisak, the Croatian Punk Party, the Croatian Workers' Party, the Croatian People's Party, the Croatian Democratic Center, the Split Party of Retireds, Nova Hrvatska, the New Generation 56 parties registered in the Ministry of Administration did not submit a financial report, and they were mandatory. The proposal of the HSU in the form of amendments is that those who do not deliver an annual financial report are deleted from the register of political parties. Which is why I need a party that wakes up from my winter sleep every four years. Either fulfill all obligations or don't exist. Would that be a deficit of democracy? Would that be limiting someone's rights to political action? I don't think so. I think the proposal is very specific. To clear this political scene because there are political parties that will open their accounts, have no income, they will show zero and visit somewhere on some posters. And you are aware that this is happening because it is in the interest of those who intend to win a particular unit of local self-government in the interest of having as many votes as possible because then it brings to the winner the mandates. I mean, we can't discuss this law without knowing election engineering or election game rules. So there was also one claim here, one said thought that I would reiterate, that in the transparency and financing of election campaigns, election promotions should play an active role in radio and TV stations, and they should have some obligation especially to public services, not just to withdraw money. Why, as a contribution to the transparency of funding or election promotion and campaign financing, they could say at what price and how many times they published a particular service for which political party. And when you match those two reports, then you'll get some results that correspond to the real cost or that don't correspond to the real cost. Of course, we are therefore in HSU to find ourselves here in this law clear, precise and easy to implement solutions, just as counterpart Beus said in front of the HNS club because it is a contribution to that picture that we will do a fair and good job and we will not make a mistake with our citizens with our voters. Therefore, I appeal to the promoter to consider with the greatest amount of attention our amendments, that if there is anything more to be done to freely invite us to explain certain positions why we should say "radically we are performing", but our only interest is to get better, better quality, clearer and more enforceable law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32266	They're graying replicas. First respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32267	Dear colleague, you said at the very beginning that HSU would support everything that's good in the law. Here is an honorable word and the Labourists will support everything that is good in the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, but I admit we have not yet found a model to support good, and refuse to do bad, so I ask you nicely to explain to me, the Croatian Parliament. Probably other colleagues would like to know, you can go to the tower, you don't need to know in public. It will probably be a new voting methodology. And I fully agree with you, 56 parties that did not submit a financial report should be abolished, deleted, and this certainly would not be an indicator of the lack of democracy in Croatia, but respect for the law in Croatia. If they are unable to comply with the laws of the Republic of Croatia, they should not be in the register of Croatian parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32268	Replication response, Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32269	Dear fellow Vuksic, of course, I may have missed the intention to say that this law has many good solutions in terms of repairs, precision, more precise arrangements compared to the existing state and it has its quality. It can't be said to be rejected, in any case. He's worth our attention. Of course, I would like you to create a system, too, and I hope that with the coffee we can talk about how to create a system so that in some law, what is very valuable, what else is subject to change. I haven't come to that conclusion yet, and maybe it'll be easier together. And secondly, thank you for supporting about 56 political parties that have not delivered reports, I really think the same thing is to erase them and not be in a democratic deficit because of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32270	Second Replic, Josip Boric
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32271	Thank you very much. I have to admit, I didn't have any surprises when you brought this law down to the sewer level by comparing it to the rainwaters and fecal waters. I don't think that's appropriate for this home and that you should have received a warning from the chairman but well, everyone has the right to say what they think and so can you. I think this law has good solutions, but obviously you didn't understand the message they sent you. You are one small party under quotes small, it may be large, the SDP no longer wants to share your functions i.e. chair and still pay for it from your means. It's a clear message. If you want a chair, at least pay one part of the cost to those chairs and that's it. And now the way you're trying to fight for what's legitimate, that you still have chairs, that nothing costs and that's it. It's also legitimate. But this obviously doesn't go through anymore, you're good if you need to coalition and create a big sausage of political parties as evidence of strength and skill, and bad if you have to give a little money and that's true. And you used the wrong example, Lokve, why you lost there, because you got the wrong layout, the SDP got 2 councilmen, HDZ 4, HSLS 1 and HNS 1, and you stayed with third place out of range because you had a bad schedule even though your intentions were good. And the amount of money invested isn't primary, that's what the Locks have shown than people do. There, the SDP constantly obstructed the work of the municipal council and the work of the commissioners, refused to bring the budget, and the citizens punished it in the elections. That's how it's gonna be for you in this election.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32272	Before I give the right to answer, one explanation because I was called to give a warning. Look, our Rules of Procedure stipulates that a warning is given if someone offends the promoter or any other representative, but we have not yet predicted that a warning is given if someone offends the law. Therefore, the law can be compared to sewerage, with garbage, with anything, it's a matter of MPs. ... And now for the reply to the replica, the esteemed Silvano Hrelja. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32273	Dear fellow Boric, if you had come in a little earlier and been here during the club debate, you would have known who had said something. I have supported my colleague Beus' proposal regarding one coalition list bill but it is not our original proposal and it is certain that it makes life easier for the parties. As for who's got where and who's gonna get I'm not because we're a small party, which is why I'm frustrated, but I'm proud because everything we've got we've achieved our efforts and we don't have any problems with our size. I think you have to worry about your size. And the last thing I have to say to you in the Croatian Parliament is I have 10 years of experience and I know with confidence that there is no visual expression forbidden under the Rules of Procedure, and if you find yourself hit, I can't help you there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32274	Next replica, the esteemed Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32275	... [[The speaker's off the mic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32276	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32277	As far as this law is concerned, because indeed here are the people who have long been in the units of local self-government and who are in the positions of the parties I know only one thing, that we have fought to make this law that has been passed before as transparent as possible and to be as visible and as recognizable. What does the opening of these huge accounts in cities, municipalities, counties mean today? The question arises, no matter who reads it all together, all those great reports, and I'm afraid that this is just the passing of one law that won't get any results and that will turn into one big administration with new employment of people and that these people and that law should not have been passed at the same time. I remember back in the '90s when we crossed from a socialist system and formed our own state we were shouting down bureaucracy. So what are we doing today? So we reintroduce bureaucracy with this law itself and create certain problems. Well, my colleague used to say here we actually need to give reports of who brought five liters of wine, who brought the sausage, whether it was cooked, whether it was baked, who brought the ham. Well, it's a disaster for my people, as we make the laws. Why don't we narrow it down to simplicity and why we don't pass laws that are as I said at first recognizable and where every citizen will be able to recognize it. This is nothing but bureaucracy and we're going back 25 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32278	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32279	Dear colleague, of course, that we in HSU are concerned about such a large number of giro accounts, but it is not, our intention is not, that we are objecting to someone thinking that red tape will be dealt with rather than we are objecting to why civil society associations and the DIP in their views that this must be a special giro-calculation. We really don't see the reasons why let the gentlemen understand this whole procedure and let in some way make life easier for the parties. But I must remind you that this DIP has become professional for your term of office and is doing the whole term, doing something all the time. He's got to be busy. Therefore, we must face it, and that is where pressures come from that we have much more work to do than objectively need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32280	The next replica, respected Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32281	Well, here's Mr. Hrelja from your debate, and I mean from the debate of several predecessors from different parties, it's clear that we all see from different parties that we don't really see any real need or real benefit to Croatian society from that multiplication of these accounts, and I think your question that you asked on two, three occasions is very legitimate and clear, and that the proposer's representative should clearly answer it, there are three of them. Is it necessary and whether or not these individual accounts can be opened if the branch does not have legal personality at the level of the municipality? It's very simple, or at the level of the city. These are very simple and clear questions that they should simply come out and answer. The answer yes, the answer no. And then what does that mean? So there's no big philosophy about it. And secondly, as you said about these parties, these satellite phantom parties that some have kept alive to take at the number 10 or 15 of these parties are taken several percent. I would support your initiative pretty much, but not right now the way you put it, but in any case, what Americans say is that exit strategy has to be clear. So, if it is clear how to get into the register of political parties, it must be clear and under what criteria it comes out of the register. Of course, we have a problem here, and the citizens' association has also accumulated in tens of thousands and for which the entry criteria are very simple, and the exit criteria are quite unclear. So we have here and besides political parties the issue of citizens' associations and these exit criteria should also be clarified for citizens' associations, let's not run from it. Although it's a bit of an extended story now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32282	Replication response, Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32283	Well, my dear colleague, I would insist on the minister or associate's reply, but I don't think there is a need because this law does not prohibit the election of parties that do not have registered basic organisational forms in certain municipalities. It forbids procedure. Namely, the bank won't open an account, and this law requires that an account be opened before the election. So at this point, the proposing representatives can't give me an answer. They can possibly clear it up, see if it's really like it says and find a solution. Otherwise, you're right, one of these claims should be made by the proposing representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32284	And the last replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32285	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You see here we are discussing the financing of political parties, yesterday we discussed the State Audit report, and today we are getting the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the bench. That's what I told you best about the system, the way the law works, whether it's like this or not. But I think it's crucial here that we know that according to current regulations, no city, municipal, can open an account but can open a sub-account. Legal subjectivity is at headquarters. So here we talk all the time, using the wrong time. So it's not the account that opens, it's the pre-calculation. But colleagues and colleagues, so I think that primarily in the two biggest parties to HDZ and SDP, we are in the interest of having each candidate here for each election list a jury account, a subcalculation, actually, for transparency and for clarity. And in the end, not to happen, those who will have fewer lists, who will have fewer candidates, will basically spend more on a particular electoral unit that matters to them. So clearly defined by law, how much can a candidate spend, how much can he spend a list, and I don't think there's any additional administration, there won't be any huge costs we're talking about, there might be 40, 50 items on average, for these larger constituencies, bigger cities will probably be bigger, but it'll also be possible for every citizen, every interested man who wants to control some things that certain branches and something that those in power are using to present their work, is basically an election campaign, but it's not treated. However, if the candidate has a particularly open account, he will clearly have to tell someone how much that pan is costing. And I think, given everything, just one sentence please, Mr. Vice President, given all that is said and so forth. I think it would take us all two and three election cycles to each candidate and each list has its own account, just for the sake of purity in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32286	The answer to the replica of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32287	Dear fellow Shuker, you're right, I think every party is a legal entity and has its own central account, the rest are parts, or accounts of organisational parts. But to be precise, it can't be opened under the client's account unless there's a registered organisational form. Unable to open sub-account unless you have a registered organisational form of the party. So that's the point. And secondly, your second remark stands partly, but even now every list, if the party list has its support, at least with us. I don't know, you've centralised a lot, so you have central and county accounts, but with us larger cities and all those who have incomes and regularly meet their obligations have their own support. So it's not necessary to double the deal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32288	We've finished discussing the clubs, so we're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. I give my word to my esteemed colleague, Zlatko Komadini.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32289	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here I won't be long, I'm just interested in the law in its finality to resolve political practice. And political practice is often performances in coalitions. And that we don't philosophize here and that every party doesn't have to have an account of its own, but to be clearly seen from that team's election account, how much of a party has been participated, and that would be that, now that it's settled here, I'm not sure that's how it's settled, as well as with the candidates. Candidates, the law is written as if it were a candidate from Mars and a coalition from Venus. There's often a situation where both of them are from the same planet, and the truth has a separate one, it has a separate one, so it has to be a separate account, separate funding. But I would like to say that it would be good for this law to be resolved, if it is not separate, to see clearly again the financing of the candidate's party, namely the coalition and that candidate. Without entering the provisions of the law, the purpose of the law is to allow political practice in a transparent way. Here, so much for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32290	Next individual debate, respected Josip Boric. ... You've reached out to the replica? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32291	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Komadin, in the interest of what you represent, I remind you only of Article 17 where he says: "According to the old law, 400 thousand kuna for elections for mayor, mayor of the big city and city of county headquarters.", it will now be 600, but it is very incorrect for you in the following position, it says, is prescribed in paragraph 1 under paragraphs 4,5, 6, 7 and 8 of this article for the election of leaders in local and regional, regional self-government units also refer to elections for members of the representative bodies of those units. Let me know if, for the body of the unit, the representative body has included the amount in those 600 or whether it is an additional 600 thousand kuna. I don't understand it in this section, so please if you don't know the answer, then let the Proposer here give a precise answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32292	Well, I'd ask everyone together to use the replicas institute correctly. Here you go, Mr. Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32293	... My dear colleague Hrelja, in my court, that's two by six, and I think I'm right. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32294	Thank you very much. Individual debate, respected Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32295	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's the whole afternoon we've been discussing this Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. I have the impression that at this point he's turned into a law opening, as counterpart Anticevic said, the Law opening a scrawny account. That's what she said recently on the board and that these little riots are about to open special accounts. That's what it looked like to me from that board, and I think the SDP message was clear, I've already said it, if you'd like the chairs to find some money and I can welcome it and HDZ supports this law because maybe the introduction to the pre-election coalition story and I was talking about them when we talked about the Law on Local Elections and brought it down to it, to these coalitions practically all the essences of our local elections. Anyone who can raise 12, 13 parties in the coalition should not have a programme, should not have too much money simply by people who want to sit down and win shouldn't be far away. Whether it contributes to the local environment, community, local or regional self-government show results in reality. I come from the county where we have a big coalition, not some result. Every year, though, it gets worse, but there it is, the coalition is counting on victory and safe chairs again. The promoter suggests a certain level of complications through this proposal, so I don't see why they wouldn't support it, I may be a little sarcastic right now but why not support it. This year we had a report on one 400 pages if I took a good look at the financing of political parties. Next year we'll have this report here in the assembly on a ten thousand pages and I guess finally the DIP and he's now a professional body as a colleague of the Hrelja says he has something to do. From year to year of elections it will not be easy to determine who he is and what he spent on, but if the promoter thinks it is good for Croatian democracy why he does not support it. It creates an impression from this debate that only finance and are also the main problem of our local choices and experience and practice show otherwise. You have the leaders of local self-government who, without a problem, almost no money gets the election. This is a formality for them that will be happy to fulfill and will not be taken too much into consideration. It's not like there's a song saying everything in the cups, not even this time. Therefore, I do not think that simply the amount of money invested does not mean that the election result will be what many expect. Often a lot of money invested resulted in no results but also a little with much, much better ones. What may bother me in this law is this increase in the limit because for a year and a half we have been talking about saving, the need to save, the need to behave rationally, and now we allow political parties, independent candidates, individuals of limits that are not meaningless, millions of kunas in the campaign is not small money. I don't think Croatian citizens will see it as a good thing, but if the government thinks it's a message they should send, they're free to send. Research shows that Croatia has good legislation in part of financing political parties' work. She wasn't bad now, but what they're warning about are sanctions, for not keeping that same legislation. And that's the problem here too. How will you punish someone who cheats, cheats, through those accounts, amounts, etc. Hard, almost not at all. When these elections pass, I am more or less aware of this because I am a member of that party that all eyes will be against the HDZ right here and there in the SDP. These other parties pass more or less and are not interesting to anyone. So I also got the impression that after all these 20 years of our democracy, only that HDZ actually had posters and ads, that it was the only one we had in all these campaigns, and that everyone else was practically in statistical campaigns. That's where the space for this and that opened up. There are many different accusations and everyone else was in line with Croatian laws and that is one of the facts for me. What is the problem and what will of course be used as a weakness of this law is also a restriction during which we need this famous writing account. He's only worth that part of the official let's say election campaigns. Before the campaign, you can spend not this limit that you are allowed but also a million more, especially in large cities, of course not directly any big promotion but mostly you don't need to just advertise in audio visual media. You can spend everything else and no one will ask you anything except that final bill at the end of the year. As this law is passed for a long time, and we have already had that law famous that the Municipal Council will tear down the mayors and mayors he provides multiple opportunities to use these limits and resources so that in one year we can spend two and three million on certain candidates depending on how many times they have to go to elections. They'll always have the same right and the same limit. Well, that's where a certain message is sent, when no one goes at least to us politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32296	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. First of all, the esteemed Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32297	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Boric. You said there's a coalition in that county, I suppose, ours and yours, right, not much of a score, and every year it gets worse. That would be me, wouldn't it? In the good part, my colleagues and your colleagues. I want to tell you first that elections are not won by spending money in an election campaign. There's only spending money, let's get and lose if the entanglement is in 2, 3%. The choices or you got are people for you before that or you lost because people are against you. It is my pleasure that people have confidence in me and that same coalition that is what you say and I am convinced that I will trust again. And I'll just tell you and you'll probably agree in a replica or answer to my replica. In Rab and Rab at the age of 10, we were hanging out with a new sports hall, a new waterfront for boat landing, a new home for health, a new kindergarten, a home for older, renovated roads,... airports and heliodromes, a new ferry port Stinica-Mišnjak new Psychiatric Hospital Rab etc. restructuring of companies and... as one in Croatia so to speak. And what would you like on Rab?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32298	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32299	It was a colleague of Komadin's when I acted on certain duties in this government which was as you say bad and dialysis and Luke Stinica and everything else that happened on that island for the benefit of that local population I would say good co-operation with both state and county and local. With the willingness of the local level and no matter who was in power and it was in both the HDZ and SDP for 10 years, and the biggest shift occurred at the time of HDZ authorities on the island if you forgot. We lost the last vote for two votes and these were the interesting results of the previous Law on the election of mayors and mayors but this is legitimate and today we have such power. Will she be there again? I don't think so. But I'm going to give an example of why this law can't affect certain events, that's what I've been saying. In my municipality where we have been in power for 20 years, we have a municipality of 6, the SDP spends double or triple the money and can't win any elections. That's the problem. Money isn't the only reason why people choose, and we've brought that debate down to that particular segment. And if the county didn't go as I should recently read the index of some wealth or the averages of certain incomes of all family or individuals, we from third place as County fell to seventh place almost in all statistics. And that's the information that calls for an alert. And those who were worse than us are now better. Of course, when the mayor says that we still have so many thousands of unemployed and everything else that is now acting as mayor, it is clear that the prospects in that county are not very good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32300	And another replica. Dear Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32301	Here's at the time of your debate I got a text message asking who's opening all the accounts. There are even people who are following our debate. It's not clear who's opening the accounts. For parties to open accounts, lists to open accounts and candidates to direct elections in their name. And now there is one threat to it, if you are a candidate or if I am a candidate for the mayor, mayor and mayor I have an open account and I owe 500 thousand kuna, who guarantees that this account will not be included and that the funds paid by the citizens for the donations will be used to settle the accounts. A lot of people will go to the election for that. Therefore, the same legislation can be misused, and citizens can be translated, I don't know which times the thirst across the water is precisely because someone intended to abuse that account.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32302	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32303	My colleague Vuksic, I said in my debate, also means that the associations that are being followed, let's say the level of transparency and the spending of political parties' financial resources, claim that we have very good laws and even in the whole environment regarding the normisation of it. However, the problem is the part concerning sanctions, i.e. what is written in the laws of the final and transitional provisions i.e. Penalties. You won't get any punishment if you do something and somehow do it wrong and beyond the law because in that force tens of thousands of those who will go into this selection process simply who will control it all. And there you may be right to ask for an individual account. But let's just say the SDP thinks it's a big party that it doesn't want to let you, not you, but some other parties. But most of them are going to say what they think about it tomorrow. I see here suggestions we have HSU, HNS, so almost with the opposition we could even vote this part on one account. But there's no demagogy, there's no demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32304	Finally, on behalf of the National Minority Club, five minutes will be spoken by a respected colleague, Denesh Soy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32305	Thank you very much, Vice President. Assistant ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to get involved in the debate a little bit and say a few sentences here in the light of this proposal, the minister said a sentence that was particularly impressive to me, shows that the promotion campaign actually lasts for 3 years 11 months and 18 days. And it would be perfectly reasonable and normal if that were the case, but listening to this debate all afternoon that a group of our voters and honest citizens up here at the gallery would listen to it then really who are not so close to that problem might get some sort of impression that, in fact, for power, or for power to come to power, because the most important thing is to have money and probably not be transparent enough. However, I think the proposal for this law is quite extensive, although it is also precise, but much is regulated from opening accounts, closing accounts, various reports, etc. And I have to say that my impression is that this law, its content, although it is quite likely and normally adapted to these voters, i.e. in the middle of the city, means Split, Zagreb, Bjelovar, Osijek etc., but it's a little harder to apply it all together in rural areas, in some municipality in Dalmatia, or in Baranja with 2-3 thousand inhabitants and a thousand voters, and I've experienced that my councilman is not one but two have told me those 150 kuna diaries at all, I'm going to give it to football players because I'm not going to open an account in Bela Manastir or Osijek. And well, he thinks so, he probably has a little bit of a reason, but that doesn't mean that in urban areas he doesn't need to do it a little more transparently and more precisely. We know that the costs are high in large areas, of television, posters, etc., etc. And I tried more precisely, twice I read all those provisions relating to various violations, to punishment, and nowhere did I find that there is a precise provision here, and now I'm going to be quite specific, for these small environments where maybe some time that promotion consists of a certain candidate or candidate in charge, it's enough for him to be 18.5, the day before the election to risk 100,000 kuna and so buy 500 votes. Today, such a situation is difficult for villages, I think 200 kunas can easily win those hesitant people. It may sound a little bitter and a little dramatic, but there are things like that with money and different packages and so on. And those last five or six days where people don't get used to that kind of work. I think that in these provisions, something like this is not envisaged enough and we are not effective enough, we have had such examples and people were even willing to sign that they have received money, but not even an election commission of municipal, county, in Zagreb, and all together, all of this is being bagatelised, and that is the most concrete form and the simplest way to buy votes, and someone has to do this for two months of various promotional activities, financed by huge money, etc. Here's what I wanted to point out because I don't think that part of those criminal provisions is precise enough and clearly and effectively to put an end to it in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32306	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the proposed law. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32307	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, second reading, PZ No 232. The debate on the text of the law is over. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set for the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please let us know who's up for it? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour and 33 abstentions have accepted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the representatives of the Government, the Proposer, to explain the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's Honorable Zoran Piculjan, Deputy Minister of Administration. Amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32308	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This amendment shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the The final draft of the law adds paragraph 2 which states that where two or more political parties propose a common list of donations for the financing of election promotion costs, they shall be paid to a special account which is obliged to open one of the political parties that have proposed a joint list to be governed by the political agreement between each other and delivered to the State Election Commission. Since Article 12. The final draft law amending Article 14 of the Law contains a large part, a large number of legal and technical improvements and additions. This amendment also proposes a completely new, whole text of this article in order to improve transparency.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32309	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I am concluding the debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who is for the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes of 85 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 23 abstentions have been accepted by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. We're moving on to the amendment table. First amendment of the Committee on Legislatives, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32310	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32311	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. The second amendment of the Legislative Committee also.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32312	And this amendment is accepted, but in a modified form, so that the words "banks" are added to the words that operate without any extension in the Republic of Croatia since the provision proposing to amend this amendment below already contains the words "in the Republic of Croatia".
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32313	Thank you very much. Respected board president Ingrid Antičević?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32314	All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32315	Yes, thank you very much. The amendment shall be adopted on behalf of the amended form and the Committee shall give up its amendment. Amendment number three of the Clubs of Representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32316	This amendment is not accepted for reasons because the purpose of opening a special account to finance the electoral promotion is that all transactions relating to the electoral promotion take place through that particular account which is subject to control by the supervisory authority. So, all transactions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32317	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here's to the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32318	This was a more radical amendment than the Government's amendment, that is, as the Government has proposed. And although I am, but I said in a debate in front of the club that would satisfy the solution that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has just proposed with its amendment for the time being. Therefore, there is no point in further discussing this amendment. I'm pulling it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32319	Thank you very much. The amendment pulls her back. Thank you very much. Let's go to amendment number four of HSU's representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32320	Similarly, the same explanation is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32321	I'm withdrawing the amendment with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32322	It was Silvano Hrelja, president of the Club of Representatives of HSU. Amendment number five National Minority Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32323	It is also not accepted for the reason that the text of this amendment is actually embedded in the proposal for an amendment submitted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32324	On behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32325	This is because the government explained in its amendment we think it's a good thing and we're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32326	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. We're going to Amendment six of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32327	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32328	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number seven representatives of Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32329	It is not accepted for reasons because the State Audit Office provides the Croatian Assembly with a report on the audit carried out by the political parties of independent representatives of members of the representative bodies of local and regional (regional) self-government selected from the list of voters, and the annual financial reports of those entities are permanently available on the website... which contributes enough transparency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't think there's more to it than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32330	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the esteemed representative of Ivo Jelusic, the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32331	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32332	Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn. Amendment number eight of the same representative of the respected Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32333	It is also not accepted for reasons because it represents a kind of retroactive application, i.e. establishing the obligations of permanent publication on websites... all available past financial reports from the past years leading to possible selectivity in the approach, so we don't think this is accurate enough either that it shouldn't be accepted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32334	Thank you very much. An indication of the applicant for the amendment, the respected representative of Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32335	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32336	Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn. Amendment number nine, MP club of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32337	It is also not accepted because the issue proposed by the amendment is not subject to the regulation of this Act but the Law on political parties and this matter will then be taken into account in the regulation, the newling of this Law on Political Parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32338	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32339	And when we proposed the amendment, we knew that it was the wrong address, but the goal was achieved, because on this point, the contents of this amendment were agreed by representatives of all clubs that discussed the proposed law. I'm glad you recognized the problem and that you will, I expect us to implement this promise that you said and install it into the Political Party Act, so for that reason we withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32340	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment nine has been withdrawn. Amendment number ten, National Minority Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32341	This amendment is accepted, but in a way that the numbering in front of the items is removed for a single nomotechnical approach.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32342	Thank you very much. Representative of the National Minorities Club, respected representative Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32343	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32344	Accepts the correction of the government's representatives. Amendment No. 11. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32345	It is also accepted but in modified form. Thus, the words of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion are added, NN No. 24/11 and 61/11. The adoption of that amendment in the amended form of nomotechnically supplemented the statement by means of a clear reference to the law to which the provision applies and related to the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32346	The chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32347	It's okay because it's even more accurate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32348	Thank you very much. The president accepts an explanation and a different stipulation in relation to the situation. Amendment No. 12. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32349	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32350	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. That's when we finished discussing the amendments. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 91 votes for and 26 abstentions have been adopted by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32351	And we move on to - Final draft law amending the Act on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 272 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on the Economy. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? He doesn't want to. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32352	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate. Yes, one seemingly technical amendment to the law, however, raises several questions here. First, I personally do not understand why since the first day of the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of EU funds he is not a member of the HBOR Supervisory Board. For the simple reason why, at this point, if we talk about pre-accession funds, if we talk about European Union funds, what bothers local self-government units, and tomorrow they will torture entrepreneurs to provide funds for the domestic component. So on behalf of the club, we believe that the post of Deputy Prime Minister at the HBOR Supervisory Board has been from the beginning. But what I think is, according to us at the club, the provisions of Article 1, which are the number of members of the Supervisory Board, are controversial. So also according to the Company Act, which is a fundamental law on organisational form and decision-making, if it is even, it is usually an odd number of members, if the even number of members must be defined by law that in the case of an unsettled vote 5:5 or how then the vote of the chairman of the Supervisory Board or someone is worth double and practically that vote is decisive because no matter what we may say it will not happen, however the laws are made to prevent any possibility of blocking the functioning of the institutions in any case. Thus, if we say in Article 1 that the word nine is replaced by a word of ten theoretically, and there is once a dispute over certain loans, then the voting ratio may be 5:5 and now the question is what will happen. So in all situations, when we have an even number of members, then the law should define that this is the most common example that the President's vote is worth double. So, as the president's vote, as the chairman of the Supervisory Board votes, that is a decisive vote. And I think, Mr. Deputy Minister, that the Government should go in that direction with its amendment. So, just one technical but tomorrow one big problem can be created. It is possible that a decision should be made which will simply be among the ministers, so that the members of the Supervisory Board of Parliament can come up with a dispute that needs to be done, it can be 5-5, and so we block the system. And go back to what I was saying at the beginning. Therefore, the composition of the HBOR Supervisory Board simply points to a lack of agreement between the Government on the use of EU funds. In Croatia, we still do not seem to be aware that the EU funds can be withdrawn only by us, that no one will give them to us and that we can only get them if we have good projects and that we can only get them if one who handles these funds provides a domestic financing component. Also, if we want to get the funds so that what happened to Bulgaria and Romania doesn't happen to us, then we have to have quality projects. The question arises whether at this point many units of local self-government can pay, whether they have the capacity to produce quality projects at all. The same story is with our entrepreneurs. You saw the other day and during the debate on the aid law to open up a whole new kind of assistance for strengthening and strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, that a model that was so far simply would have to be eliminated and would have to disappear, however, the government's composition and reflection on that only now that the first Deputy Prime Minister had disappeared practically from the government when the second Minister of Economy came we only realized that the vice-president of the government in charge of the EU funds had to come. With all due respect to the other ministers, withdrawing funds from the EU funds for Croatia is a priority issue at the moment. Because it is definitely colleagues and colleagues from all these discussions on the budget, on the implementation of the budget, on the drop in credit ratings, on poor macroeconomic indicators, on investment problems that Croatia has at the moment the cleanest place to withdraw funds from the EU funds and thus practically replace the lack of funds in the budget it currently has with these funds. Also local self-government units. And as I have already told the Croatian economy and the Croatian economy, the time has come for restructuring support. The competitiveness funds can also be withdrawn from the EU funds, and I repeat, with this technical remark, we will support this bill, we only think that regardless of the name, but I am talking about the function, the man in charge of the EU funds must be practically from the first day because this government has been practically 14 months at the head of the Croatian state and this is already the last train that this man jumps into the HBOR Supervisory Board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32353	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the HNS club, colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32354	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues of the HNS club will support this bill, which is essentially an amendment to the law. I must say that my colleague Shucker said before me that on a matter of 10 members of the Supervisory Board that it is necessary to find a solution that, in the event of an equal vote, there is the possibility that one member, I suppose and I suggest that the chairman of the Supervisory Board, has that vote which is worth twice to make decisions with the fact that as a member of the HBOR Supervisory Board, I must say that so far all decisions in this mandate have been made unanimously, but of course does not mean that of certain situations, and also because of the obligation to make decisions can be made. There is a voice that can judge if necessary. Therefore, by referring to a colleague before the fund, it should be made clear that so far the HBOR has followed very well some of the funds related to pre-accession funds and that in measures 101, 103, it is production, processing and marketing of agricultural products from approved projects 72% financed by the HBOR, Measure 302. – Diversification and development of rural economic activities 61.5% and Measure 301. 46.7% of total approved projects financed by HBOR funds. Which essentially indicates that the HBOR with all those government activities in preparation for the withdrawal of structural, cohesion European funds and those that should always be highlighted within the EU will be the one that will monitor and finance the projects to be able to be implemented as best as possible because that initial part of the investment is necessary in any case by the HBOR because we know that most often all these funds are delivered after the projects themselves have been completed. What I would like to stress at the end of this legislative amendment is that the HBOR is known, but it is necessary to stress, in 2012, a total of 10 billion 229 million and 100 thousand loans were granted, which compared to 6 569 851,000 in 2011 is an extremely higher and more quality activity and what is important in 2012 that the funds that the credit went from HABOR were more for investments than for other projects, which is one good indicator and roles of HABOR in which this government, this coalition is extremely important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32355	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32356	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, my intervention about having the Deputy Prime Minister in... For the EU funds must have gone to this since the start of the Supervisory Board because I said that over the past month, we have not once discussed the problem of using EU funds here. [[You don't understand a word.]] And it's not a function for him to be there, lobbying for something to be done, but simply for certain projects that matter, eventually, to overlap several projects from individual ministries. But it is illogical that, at this point, if we are all talking about these EU funds and if we say that in Croatia in the next seven years, almost 10.5 billion euros are available, then we simply have to be prepared, aware of the facts that happened to all of us before us to withdraw those funds. Because at this point it is definitely the only quality means that can change Croatia's infrastructure equipment. Also, Croatian entrepreneurs can practically raise their competitiveness in the only way, which was the purpose of my exposure. I would also say that the government simply has to react with the amendment. I'd make my own amendment, but just for a short time, I'm on my way, but I don't think we should leave ourselves an empty space as far as the board's decision is concerned. It simply must, by law, be because even under the Commercial Society Act, you have defined that the number of members of the Supervisory Board must be odd.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32357	Reply to the replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32358	Dear fellow Members of the current situation and I believe your support for the adoption of these amendments to the Law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is no delay in preparing HABOR for participation in financing and support, EU funds and projects that the Croatian Government and all those structures of local and legal persons will use and need to withdraw funds. This is also a good time to get into it and I believe that the Government is not late on this issue, especially knowing and I believe that by working as a member of the Supervisory Board, it absolutely did not feel that there was no problem because the minister responsible for the European Funds has not been on the Supervisory Board so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32359	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32360	Thank you very much. A colleague, Gjurkovic, related to this part of your exposure related to the success of the EU funds. Well, here I am personally plagued by a fact that I just learned today, that because we have been listening to the story all along about the Prime Minister being in Brussels and that he successfully defended Croatia's positions during the next seven-year period as regards EU funds for the Republic of Croatia. And today I find out that we actually got 2 billion less through that budget proposal in 7 years, and that we successfully defended the deposit position. Well, now I don't know if it's true, it's not always the media to trust, but I hope you know it for sure. So the question really arises how do we enter this EU, if we know about this story of poor exploitation of certain opportunities that we witness daily, so plus another 2 billion euros less, not 100, 200 but 2 billion in 7 years, then the question really is, will the Republic of Croatia fund the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32361	Reply to the replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32362	A respected colleague, as far as I know, not from the media but from the clear negotiations that were with the EU, the amount agreed and constantly spoken of is 11 billion and 700 million euros is the amount that we negotiated, so that he writes everything, and probably what you were talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32363	I'm closing the debate on the bill. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32364	Final draft law amending the law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 272, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find it unanimous, with 121 votes for, the Law amending the law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32365	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - The report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the legal authority of the Report is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the material by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Deputy Finance Minister Mr. Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32366	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Regarding the Financial Business Regulation and pre-demand settlements, just a few words before the debate begins. So it's a law that was passed in this high house, in 10 months, and now the question is, right now, where to quickly change certain items of that law already within 12 months. I have to tell you that it's a living law where we got everybody's support in this high house and when they started those pre-fashion deals, about 10.11 months, we had very little cases and out of practice. In 12 months, however, we have a turn-off where a very large number of companies appeared in a pre-determined settlement and where the first effects are now seen in the first or second month. I have to tell you that somewhere the latest data is that somewhere over three, five thousand companies have entered a pre-determined settlement, there are about 25 thousand people employed somewhere and that the amount of reported blockades is somewhere around 30 billion kuna. When we talked to entrepreneurs, because believe every day we talk in this process, then when we actually run this one pre-departure deal you encounter a lot of problems, you encounter a lot of problems, and exactly one of the reasons is why it went immediately by the regulation, and unfortunately I have to say a lot of articles have changed, but only a few things have changed essentially, which I'm going to say here and that's why, and right at the beginning I'm saying it means that there have been a lot of changes in articles. But if you know that every day are actually situations where we want to save every single company that can be saved and that's why there have been interventions like this, this urgent regulation, and right away I'm going to say that we're going to go to March with the changes to this law where we're going to still work out means all some of the obstacles that are being put in front of us to actually save every commercial company, every job, all those obstacles that are coming along, we're going to go with quick changes because this is one newspaper as you know that wasn't present in the Republic and this newspaper is currently here with us and we see that it gives the first certain effects and in fact all of the certain obstacles that we may not have known the laws ourselves, we're going to try to solve them in walking. As you know here is one of the newspapers was related to when we analyzed the received reports we saw that a large number of companies that submitted the financial reports did not actually submit the revised reports. And then, in fact, there was one problem with reporting without reporting. But they were a constant process of blockage, so I don't know if I can tell here about some concrete companies where we saved them in that way where we've said by these quick changes that it's actually just like that to call up the blockade, that the company might, in fact, have their current business so that it might happen even though there isn't this formally revised report then we're actually in this part if there's actually going to be one compensatory damage to that company. We've introduced such a temporary measure. So because we thought that this company if it was, it's about our one excellent company that's been in difficulty means not only for him but also for other companies that we've raised blockades, that they're trying to run raw materials, that they can pay that particular payout and that's one of the big changes in this part of the law, and we think that it's going to infa favorite these entrepreneurs to actually lift the blockade and to be. Because it was with different believers it wasn't possible to make a deal. Two creditors agree the other five simply don't want to and then block the company and we couldn't possibly let the deal of all the creditors and that's one of the big newspapers in that part where we think we went in favor of entrepreneurs. Also, audit reports in the very moment when we were in the talks after the adoption of the law with the Croatian Audit Chamber they made certain observations where we adopted them and also in the process when auditors were to give an assessment of the value of this procedure and then we said ok, let's see which way is more operational, which is better, that you and actually those reports that will serve the creditors that they can make certain decisions here we actually agreed with auditors where the auditors are already on 13 January 2013. In years, they have given guidance to all the audit houses in which to deal with these cases. And I think that's where we set off the auditors' houses, too, so they can start making those reports. We even changed the law, the question is who will pay these audit reports for the companies that are in the blockade. We said we're taking off the blockade, that part where we have to pay for the audit, it goes into one regular business cost. All we did was make sure that this company didn't find any obstacles, some operational nature, and in this context we actually went through this change. And it's also related to the application of certain requests where a particular question has been raised about what about those non-requestors who can later damage the whole process then we said that everyone actually has to apply to this search process, so there are no those who wait on the side to see when the system is resolved so that they block that company again means that they don't harm the company. So all the time we've been running is this one living matter. We've recently talked to our major firms who are in difficulty and believe every day you have that very different combination and we're trying to remove all these obstacles so that these companies actually let them breathe, let them start working. So here's when you look at it with such a normatively very much change, 40 points you see in a very short time, we say we'll go with change very quickly already in the third month and again we're doing our best to fight that part of indifference. So we had 45 billion indifference somewhere during the summer, you see today that the first results are not just administrative measures where we said you'd be erasing, that below 40 billion went down. It's down to 39 billion. We're saying we're going to see what we can do to actually make those companies that are in difficulty the part that needs to be cleaned up, but out of those over two billion there are those companies that need that craft capital, who need those crafts, who need to be allowed to breathe when they're unfortunately in these difficulties, and we're actually going to go through the urgent changes in these regulations because that's one process that we're going to say very quickly again, and as soon as it takes the government to change just to save every job, to save every company. Here's a thank you, so we'll try to see if there's anything else to be done through the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32367	Thank you very much. Replica Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32368	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here, Mr. Deputy Minister, you said she made good effects before a bankruptcy settlement. I believe that in most cases yes. But of course, as usual. There's always bad effects. It is likely that those large companies that are under a slightly larger increase, of course, due to a larger number of employees and everything else are in a privileged position in this work while smaller companies that come to commercial courts are definitely often brought into a situation where the process is delayed, that it is going on indefinitely, that the owner who brought the company into difficulty and I here represent, in particular, workers from the meat industry of Gusti in Križevci, so that it stalls, use the law and in some way manipulates it by the same law, uses all those time intervals and continues to lead the company in general to fail that it starts with the druzjek to practically process and that it no longer produces. There is an even bigger problem when even a potential interested customer wants to continue production but there is nothing you can do about this pre-fashion deal because of this process. Well, my request that you try acting as President of the Court of Justice on this high duty. It is not only a formal but also a responsible place and is therefore responsible for the work of the court as a whole and for the functioning of the work of judges in certain cases, but only the issue concerning the regular functioning of the court. The introduction of the Director of the Judicial Administration as the Head of the Court was necessary. Here I am witness to our court in Osijek, which is one truly beautiful historical building which is also in war circumstances, and also that fire that broke out and some other extraordinary measures really needed that, except for the President of the Court, there is one manager who will take care of the conditions of work in the court because it creates a picture not only of the efficiency of the court but also of the technical conditions and the place where the judges are working, the arrival of the parties to courts if it is derout and in bad condition, if the courts can hardly accept the parties then, and already only by visual entry into such a place, it is a place to create something that does not work, and it is simply necessary to do everything in addition to this judicial action and in such large courts to make it much better and more accessible citizens, and it will certainly improve the conditions of work, but also the whole picture of the courts and courts and of the courts and county and other institutions, and other cases, and it is really something that is really something that is necessary and it will be better to do so. I have already spoken in the previous law on the motion for trial within a reasonable period of time in Article 29 of the Croatian Constitution, Article 6. The European Conventions are a question that goes through these debates. It is indeed necessary to make it a reasonable time-limit indeed to be and that he himself is saying that parties within one appropriate time-limit of taking the costs with a quick procedure come to their solution. I hope this 35 000 kuna damage is enough. Is there more than that? Maybe so, but given the overall financial situation, and also given the fact that this year because of the overall situation in the economy, there is little less money in the judicial portfolio. Maybe it's really here on my part and reasonable that it's that amount. We need to assess in the future whether that's enough. Indeed, the parties that suffer the damage should make up for it with some kind of satisfaction, and if that is 35,000 kuna, I can now believe that it will be enough. The good and resolved question of the Justice Department's inspection was the regular one, they were extraordinary. Sometimes it is necessary to act really quickly and react quickly to law violations. I also said this for performances. That 30-day deadline is a time limit that is good to lay down by law, but it should be done so that those who write plays are not a specter for answers, but that they really do according to the play, and we can do everything together. Here's how this is gonna work when the law goes into its own realisation, so that citizens don't write to you about how they speak to us MPs and courts as well. There are judicial advisers, there is no need for judges to answer that question if they are burdened with work, but that someone really takes this idea seriously and that one, by appropriate treatment of the citizens, returns that belief that those who question both the judge and the court in full to get a good and good and true answer and not to be a sprawl for all. I say, there are a lot of performances in the Committee on Representatives and Justice of the Citizens where they complain about the conduct and deadlines in the work of the courts. Here's what I believe is that this measure will be good for us to reduce this by not being in principle and declarative, but indeed for better solutions for our citizens. The burden and disbursement of judges with this measure to give advisors items worth up to 100 000 kunas will primarily contribute to the disbursement and reduction of the number of cases in courts and that is a measure which is good and necessary and the advisors are a long range of years of work and by gaining experience on cases I think up to these cases solve these values with up to 100,000 kuna. Anyway, here's to not saying we're fighting over what's good. Our club supports this law and will support all those laws if together in a quality debate we can all contribute to the better and greater stability of our judiciary and the legal security of the state as a whole. The opposition is to serve the correction of power and to make the government better. If there's anything good, then you really need to back it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32369	Thank you, too. We move to an individual debate, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32370	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. As my predecessor, who just spoke to counterpart Josip Salapic, says, this is a law that we all support. We still have to make a little effort to keep him and the judges in line as long as we support him. That's what's bothering us, that's what's bothering us, and that's what most of us are. What do you do in that case? This Final Proposal for a Law on Courts which, like all similar laws of all countries, contains general provisions, structure, deliriousness, jurisdiction of courts. So, all that is necessary for the work of the judiciary but contains something that I will only talk about, because I don't have a lot of time and what bothers our citizens and I mean all these branches of government that often transfer responsibility to each other in terms of ineffectiveness of the work of the judiciary, and that's a matter of duty, but also a question of the rights that precede them because judges really need to precede rights but also duties to fulfill their constitutional and legal task. What is the situation still in front of our Croatian courts, the situation is still so to blame, whether it is criminal persecution or litigation to blame hope, and to be truly afraid. We will succeed with our reform when the guilty are afraid, and the real one not only hoped but believed in that justice. It's an ideal that we need to pursue, and in order for that to happen, judges simply have to become priests of justice. Of course, it is an ideal that needs to be pursued and difficult to reach and has never been reached in any period. What does that mean? This involves his excellent qualifications and knowledge that this is a purely administrative reduction of demand, nothing else, because the 6 billion Croatian economies did not get. And no one questions you or the Minister or the Government's wish and you even have the support to help the economy and you have no reason to be angry when someone tells you it's an administrative reduction than what to call otherwise if this one erases the debt of what, but eventually someone who doesn't get those 6 billion is going to get it because simply someone's looking for them, somewhere a circle has to close. Or if it's different I'd like you to reassure me because then there wouldn't be any problems that entrepreneurs today have and those who do as much normal business as possible, and in everyday contact with them talk about it, so you'll see that practically economic life has stopped, mutually... they've almost stopped and that's a fact that we can't run away from and that's a fact if you suggest anything to change it, make sure you have the support of all the clubs in this House. So don't look wrong if you're told it's an administrative reduction. And what I can't possibly accept is that you're not using the OIB Institute, so you can see exactly which firm has any connection to the last one, with which companies, to transfer property from business to business, to avoid certain payments. So one of the basic reasons why it went to the introduction of the OIB, why it was a multi-year fight with the High Court of Commerce because they had colleagues and colleagues with 50,000 limited liability companies where there were five consonants or six, it doesn't matter how many, you saw in the Trade Court only one. Those five aren't in there, they signed some kind of social contracts. By introducing the OIB by amending the Law on the Court Register of my colleague, Lovrin, I believe that it was to go on 10 months 2010, practically the High Court of Commerce was obliged to reregister all these companies by seeing all their owners and you when you type in one OIB you see property, co-ownership of any company or property and co-ownership of that company with any other company. And when you have such a connection, when you have to determine whether material or immaterial property has been transferred from business to business, you have the right to apply those provisions of the General Tax Code, which are in a certain way contrary to the Law on Related Companies because it is clearly related societies. And that someone was transferring property from business to a company with the ultimate intention of not paying some kind of obligation. It's a fact, it's true. And look, colleague Lalovac, you won't mind being saved at this time by the construction industry in the Republic of Croatia that is on its knees. And you, if you look, those who have applied for a pre-determined settlement there are metalsmiths and builders more or less everyone, unfortunately. And who will be in this House against it? But we're against you saying that there's just some kind of technical change here, it's not true. You want from the auditors, you want from the report that needs to be changed, it doesn't really matter around financial indicators whether it's like this or not. Whether that annual financial report has been replaced by that other financial report in a specific way or not. But if that'll solve 10 problems I agree that these are changes, only the Ministry of Finance must have it under control. And any change, you said this was living tissue and a normal thing that maybe in a month or two you'd be looking for a change of law and nobody slowed it down for you, but don't do it with a regulation like this. Let him argue here as a colleague Hrg mentioned an example of a company. Maybe he's right, maybe he's wrong, maybe the other colleagues will mention something else, and maybe we'll come up with a better-quality solution. But to tell you, we've narrowed our liquidity from 45 to 39 billion, it's simply not true, it's administrative erasure. It's an administrative wipe and it's something that's not good. Also, when you look here at the credentials definition of the credentials, we have to be simple, regardless of what is defined here by law, that ultimately let God come to the dispute that someone is asking for a company, yesterday we had a debate about one law,... from this judicial section where these invoices were just spoken of, and he, if he proves to the legal documents that he has a claim from a particular company, I don't know which court you're going to argue that he can collect it if you open it like you did, so that the credentials who report the case and whose claims are challenged and the credentials who didn't report in the settlement process, and they either started it or will subsequently initiate a litigation procedure with a lawsuit or a proposal for the execution of a credible document. A credible document that you have delivered goods or performed a service is something that guarantees you that you will charge for it and no one by any administrative means if you have not passed the legal deadline can dispute it. So to conclude, this is unfortunately no matter how good it was that we supported this law by consensus this unfortunately shows in a certain way that the Croatian Parliament does not ask any questions. We passed this law, this law as it was known Thursday at the cabinet's session that this would change as well on Friday, the week before that debate at the Croatian Parliament and adopt. But in addition to these remarks, if we have supported the bill's proposal, if not the results as expected, and that is 20 thousand pre-price settlements as spoken, obviously the problem is a little deeper and a little more complex and that this problem needs to be seen differently and seen differently and perhaps in a different way to solve it. We will therefore accept this report or what the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament will be, but we also ask our colleagues from the Ministry of Finance and the rest of the government not to humiliate the Croatian Parliament in this way because I repeat this is what the government adopted on January 11th, we are discussing this on February 14th. Meanwhile, all those pre-fashion deals could have occurred up to 20,000 between 3,000 as planned. Therefore, if you already have support for certain things, it would be good to give us timely information.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32371	Replica, Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32372	Here's a very short listener just a ton of discussion of people who don't understand the subject I'd say that fellow Shucker... how he does it in awe and quality way, and then when you get a little bit into the metrics you see, and in good sense, of course, that he supports those good measures of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, technically, January 11th, the government passed, and if I'm not mistaken on January 23rd, it started working in this section, and I think we immediately placed that item on the agenda. Why technically he didn't show up today, but well maybe I'm not the most invited to talk about it, but I know it was primarily a 5.6 item on the agenda. Probably for technical reasons the presence couldn't have been here. This is probably the most complicated law in terms of the change that has been passed in this House and the desire for it to actually succeed. All the laws that come from the Ministry of Finance, I hope that this and the colleagues who are not in that field and confess and I think that some public research is saying that, in fact, they are trying and trying to change this society as much as possible. Let's just remember how much there was in this assembly and in the public protest about the Law on fiscalization, cash traffic, and it ended up being wonderful, wonderful. The system will fall, the state will collapse, we're not going, and in fact, the tax at least as far as the caterer is concerned has fallen from 25 to 10, so today everything is wonderful, which, on February 14, we're Valentine's Day, so everything works wonderfully and beautifully without any fall, without any problems. The aim of this law was therefore to enable all market participants to compete more transparently, that creditors who couldn't get their money to come to that money for years, and that the debtors of course who could survive came to that. It's too short for me, maybe I should get back to the debate after all, but I say transparently two readings, we've talked a lot about it, obviously this law gets in the way, and I'm going back to the first sentence in a lot of change, and we need to support the government's attempt to adjust it. It's just that out of all of this, I find these arguments very reasonable, both about the credentials and about some other solutions, and I think that's good. And the announcement itself that the new law comes in two to three weeks proves how complex the problem is and how good it is that the ministry corrects the law because it will bring effects. Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32373	Thank you very much. Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32374	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. If you had looked at better materials then you would have seen that this Regulation was adopted on 20 December, I was talking about this, on 20 December for this Regulation, and this report, which otherwise contains 3 regulations, was adopted on 11 January 2013. So one is the report, and the other is when the regulation is passed. The second thing is the pre-departure settlement does not guarantee with anything that the creditors will be charged, it only gives the possibility of the company living, working and creating a prerequisite that those who have certain claims may have to go to another pre-departure settlement to reduce that claim. But if I'm not mistaken, the state is giving up tax duties, so if you look at the changes, so I'm saying they're not just technical changes, the banks are probably going to give up interest in one part or they're going to cut interest, and so that's something that's not at all controversial. But I'm just saying that here is not exactly a harmless change in this law, that it should have been discussed by the Croatian Parliament and not by a two-month delay. So that's what this is about. And what I said on behalf of the club is that we will always support any proposal that will make life easier for the Croatian economy but we also cannot accept that someone is telling us that indifference decreased by 6 billion when it did not fall. When you look at that last year that it went up 5 billion first with the foundations blocked according to the FINA data, and this is just an administrative erasure of something, however, these money did not come into the circulation of the Croatian economy because it simply does not exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32375	And Josip Boric, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32376	You have rightly stated your comments in this way on a very important regulation and you are rightly wondering why you always have a wrong view of HDZ and MPs who are trying to discuss this problem in a constructive way. And we supported the law, voted for it, we're trying to make some suggestions. But it's all like some kind of policy that's been getting obvious for the past few months. So we find out recently, says the finance minister, to rebalance the budget that will have to go that the HDZ is guilty of being passed. And we warned you not to bring it, that it was no good. Then we hear the public debt isn't growing, and it's never been bigger than it is now. Then no more borrowing, then the minister says he's going to America for a billion and a half dollars. So we have to tell this people the truth. That's the facts. I don't know why we're running away from it because it's just that time is coming, and it's getting harder and harder to explain it to those who make decisions. And the Croatian people become, or citizens, aware that they are getting harder and harder to live. And, of course, there's anxiety. But the question is, how long will it take? At some point, someone will have to explain whether the way of the new fiscal policy was the right way or whether we were wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32377	There was no response to the replica, but you didn't replicate your colleagues to Shucker, you did. The Deputy Minister has asked for a word. Boris Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32378	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I said that when you look at 40 articles that are not all 40 articles essentially, I have listed here what are the fundamental changes and certainly are changes because it showed us actually the work that we have to change things. So maybe it's a communication error. So I didn't say everyone was but to talk about all 40 articles that weren't in that part. You said here that in this part that banks are tough nuts and that now the banks have profited something. Well, my banks' people are just as religious as the state, and without an active bank participant, we're not gonna make it through this. So we're not gonna make it. If we think that all the time the state has actually written off banks, without the active role of the bank's participation open, everyone's saying will not succeed pre-fashion settlements. So it wasn't here to favor it. We're talking here about all the believers that have to be in an equal position. The fact that banks have the right to remain in place and so in the whole process, it is certainly a question of how the banks will affect their balance sheets. So it's a difficult process. Write off 5 billion kunas in what you said, let it be written off under 5 billion kunas through banks. What's the effect on the economy? One domino effect. Unfortunately, I hope it won't be, but I'm saying it's a difficult process. So there was no conversation here that banks now favor themselves, and no, that there were questions here, if you were thinking about that part of what when the company, when the company is unblocked which bank will give money. She didn't want to give any money because they said they saw the problem, and here we are, we added an article to that piece, that this bank that gives money, the fresh capital for the craftsman that she is, that we put that claim in the regular, priority, that she still has some kind of, I won't say safety but nobody wanted to give money. We've unblocked the banks, I say no matter what great day, I won't be able to give the money. Okay, to add this article, if you give money you can consider it a priority demand where they were workers, etc. We had to run that process somehow. You say administrative erasure, so now that it's going down it's administrative. And look, when I analyzed administrative writing, I told you that I found a lot of work in companies where they've been blocked for 5, 6 years, that they're growing. And then I wonder how it's possible that a company that's been blocked for 10 years, 10 years, is constantly, that its blockade is growing? I'm also wondering if it's the same kind of administrative growth blockage. Also, I can show you all this data from the FINA where I was wondering how it was possible. ... No, we're not just talking about capitals, 45 billion is just the principal, interest is the second question. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The interest in that part isn't, so the interest and the principals are separate. So in this part, when we said we were erasing this company, but you know why you can't see it yet, because the banks haven't closed the accounts. The banks haven't closed the accounts yet even though they've been deleted in the court register, we are now, but FINA can't close because there's still business accounts in banks, so it's still the real effect, and 30,000 companies haven't been seen, because they haven't, banks just don't close their accounts. And in that part we have an administrative problem with what to do with it further. So about that, it's not just administrative decommissioning. I agree with the OIB, I'm from, of course, you'll never hear from me here, I agree the OIB is a top-notch thing, and we've said that over and over and over and over again here that's one continuity. You'll never hear from me here that we're dealing with the OIBs, who needs to go in and not go in. I think it's one process within the Ministry of Finance that needs to be run for, to protect the one that's actually being analyzed so that I, from me here, you'll never hear about the OIB. I think the OIB should work, but you should work quietly, so I'm not saying, back off. And related here in this section for audit reports, so that actually when we passed the law we didn't actually have in this context both rights and partners on the part of the Croatian Audit Chamber. Where we said you needed an evaluation of the company, then no auditor would, he wouldn't sign it. Well, we've got a big four auditors, and I talked to them recently. I'm telling you, we're not signing a single word in a pre-determined settlement. I told my people you have to make your contribution to the economy. And the audit reports serve only the believers, the believers in this context, that they actually owe them because each debtor he will make his plan. The auditor will only confirm whether he is credible. And so both the state and, in fact, the banks' audit reports serve only to see if the company has a viability, whether it can go to the market later and in this context they need, and value assessments that in this context actually. So I told you the bottom line, but I wouldn't just point out that that's what it means, I think it's a great effort and what you've finally said, I have to tell you personally that it offends me, that you said that no one here asks you anything, and you know how much the Ministry of Finance has respected your and your remarks, and we've respected your amendments to this law and for several other laws. Don't ask me why it came with that gap, but I listen very carefully, all of you and I think of all the clubs that we've respected all these things so that I wouldn't go with such findings. Right from our point of view, we respect and accept all your suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32379	Thank you. Replica has a colleague named Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32380	Madam Vice President, I expected you to react to what the deputy minister said, but we're not going to talk about who insulted whom, I was not going to insult you at all. But you can't deny the fact that there's something going on two months after the adoption. So it's a fact and it's no insult. Whoever made that mistake in this chain, you can't do it there, so I don't think it matters. But look, my colleague Lalovac, I didn't go into detail on purpose, not wanting to make it difficult for you, not wanting to spread the story, but you can't say, here's just one provision, and I could count 10 more. Here's an old law before this amendment, says Article 15 of the Immunity, indifference within the meaning of this law arises when an entrepreneur cannot meet the monetary obligations that are due during that period. And now the item, and pro per paragraph 1 paragraph 2, is more than 60 days late in meeting one or more of the monetary obligations of which the amount does not exceed 20% of the amount of its liabilities published in the annual report. And look what he says now in this amended law, 20% of his short-term liabilities. 20% of the amount of short-term liabilities and 20% of all liabilities is than the country. So I'm telling you that when you look at the law, when you compare a little bit then you'll see that there are some changes, but if it'll improve to save one company, we raise our hand for it. I'm just saying don't be so easy to say that change isn't really essential, because short-term obligations and total obligations of firms that are in trouble, it's really heaven and country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32381	The answer to Boris Lalovec's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32382	Thank you very much. Regarding short-term, these obligations, meaning even when the first adoption was considered part of the short-term commitments, because if you see it working here, if the company has 60 days, and it is not blocked it is immediately, if 60 days in a continuous blockade it is then insolvent. And then it's normal to have short-term obligations, to be insolvent first and then insolvent. So that was the first one, so it was the original law-making, but it was simply the failure that we're here because there was a lot of question because, what are these obligations, we're talking about short-term obligations. So we're talking about short-term liabilities, so it has to be insolvent first to be insolvent, but it can't happen to us that someone's been blocked for 60 days, that they're insolvent, that they're insolvent. And that's why the short-term commitments were added in this section to make that clear difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32383	Next up is the club of HNS representatives and colleagues Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32384	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy associate, colleagues and colleagues. Here is one of these laws that we have passed essentially by consensus and which is essentially the law not only of life but of one of the few laws that directly affects the rescue of companies and insurance in that part of the Croatian economy which because of the problems of insolvency and indifference but not of the current but long term. What we inherited, what was dragged with a bold decision to go with this law and, of course, by supporting most clubs to try and get these entrepreneurs out of trouble. Entrepreneurs will no longer be entrepreneurs in that company at least not in majority ownership, and the way they will continue to work will ensure new management, new owners, majority owners, and including the state, ensure that workers continue private, their deserved income and ensure new added value that these companies can provide on the market because they have a chance. And that's the key element of this law with the changes that we have here that you wouldn't get into details of, of course, because every article can be analyzed on either side. And what is crucial about these amendments and the regulations that have been made, and we will probably confirm on Friday that, in fact, it has been shown that the government responded immediately, when it found it necessary to change so that certain companies, a particular workplace, would not be in particular threatened by what some changes would not have been made. And that is why these changes were needed by the government immediately and let us not forget that the pre-war settlement lasts for 120 days. So a pre-war settlement by law lasts 12 days. The question of survival or not survival we all know well one piece of strategic private companies in the Republic of Croatia. Not only strategic on the employment of more workers but on the position they have on the market as Croatian as well as international. So this is how the Government reacts with a regulation at a time when enough elements or problems are collected through the processes you start pre-fashion settlements and only an indication of how deep the Government of the Republic of Croatia would say in this problem, taking into account the problem of the economy and the implementation of one law, the implementation in which we often discuss here in our high home. Law enforcement, we have good laws and they don't really apply. This is exactly the indicator of how this is done. And what is also necessary to stress that the participation of the Ministry of Finance in the activities of solving the problem of creditors and debtors, an active role, and that means sitting down with everyone, talking, not to say push, but to be one and an arbitration officer and a believer in this process. In the short process of 120 days, something that no government has ever shown in this way or similar. The CNS will therefore support this proposal for a regulation adopted by the Government under the legal authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32385	Thanks, buddy. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, counterpart Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32386	Thank you. Here is Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, the remaining MPs and the remaining representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Once again, let me repeat what I said in the replica only in one little longer edition. We are like a party and as a club, we have supported the Act on Pre-demand settlement and we believe that this is a good and responsible measure. No measure is ideal, but we thought it was a good and responsible measure that the Croatian Government must take, and this regulation and these powerful changes that have actually come will also be supported, given that they already come more or less to this Assembly retroactively. But what I said is what we think, and that's what we think, and that's that the Pre-department Bill, if you had the right assessment and the right political assessment of the situation that you didn't have, or you had the wrong assessment that you had at the time, would have been one of the first legal laws that would have been passed right at the very beginning of your mandate, but you had one other assessment, and your assessment was and it was wrong and you found it alone during the last summer that it was wrong, and that's what we're going to let go of all the things that were needed and that was said the whole first half of the year and in the meantime we're going to start big state investments and they're going to compensate for the decline of production, the number of jobs through those investments. The investments did not come, neither did they today and these trends you misjudged and this crisis was much thicker and much more devastating for Croatian society and the Croatian economy than you were estimating at the time. Perhaps at that stage in the first half of last year you didn't even find enough time because you were very entertained by staffing all possible ministries, agencies, institutes and institutions that you then formed and perhaps you didn't have enough time to deal with the economy. Because I will remind you once again of the statement by the Minister of Economy at the time that everything that is wrong and what is necrotic is going to be removed from the Croatian economy, and then we warned you that this thesis and this idea is not right, that it is guilty and that it is appropriate that the healthy, really healthy in the Croatian economy has so little and that yet a good part of the Croatian economy is already in some way infected and compromised if you want and partly insolvent and that it can't be set up and that's the only way we'll keep it healthy and let everything else go already that the state has to intervene actively. But only in the fall of last year did you face the weight of the situation and the pressure of the collapse of a whole series of major companies in Croatia, and when Croatia got down on its knees, you decided to take that responsibility. And on the other hand, in this preconvening settlement, you say that you have taken measures to reprogramme tax debts is not a measure of saving the Croatian economy. This is one measure that tries to reduce the tax debt and increase the charge of the state budget. It in itself is neither special nor influential. And of course there was one reprogramme there would be another so there would probably be another reprogramme if we were to be honest when the time came. That you will need to reprogramme and you will probably have to want or not to give a slightly more flexible model of that reprogramme not only what or all or in one model of ring payment. We support what you are doing now, we will also support the additional measures that you will take in this settlement. And we think that if there's a place where the state needs to show responsibility then in this part of these problems that the economy faces, it needs to show responsibility and not show responsibility by removing part of the authorities, for example, municipalities, cities and counties where it tells me it's not taking responsibility in that part. And that happens in a whole series of other sectors, it's called centralised. We are against this centralisation, we think that the state needs to be decentralised both fiscally and in the decision-making process and in the process of strengthening regional self-government. And in this part, given that our state budget today is as it is structured as it is, so are the structured revenues, so are the structured expenditures, we will anyway support this form and let's call it state interventionism. And be sure to defend Croatian interests more closely to the extent that you defend Croatian interests, and Croatian interest is a Croatian workplace. And don't be afraid of banks. You will have the support in a very firm match against these banks I am certain of your own party but you will have a relationship that we are in opposition. When you're dealing with them, take care of their positions. They're not exactly as great and they don't have a place with that money as they do sometimes, and they don't have where they're going with that property that they've come across in some time, and now they don't know what they're going to do with it. Therefore, even here, the positions of the Croatian state are not so bad in some relations, but sometimes it should not be easy to let them actually lead the game. So the support of the HDSSB club in any case by amending the Law on Pre-accession settlement, but not by the way Mr Shuker pointed out in this way that this was now made by a regulation that changes 40 and some articles of the law and de facto is a fundamental change of the whole law which is now retrograde in the Croatian Parliament only blesses itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32387	Thank you very much. The replica has Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32388	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Djurovic in his replica before, and now in the debate on behalf of the club, it's practically going from the wrong premise that these moves are too slow and that the law came too slow. He simply couldn't have come to Djurovic before. So the government was when she sat down she was aware that the bogeyman of indifference was then 42, three billion which he meant. At that time it brings you a reminder of a reduced budget, the first reduced budget, it was not simply 5 billion to be reduced on the dissipated side. It dilutes the economy through 2% reduction in health contributions, relieves the economy through parafiscal burdens. So knowingly speaking, we're going to burden consumption, raise VAT to the heart of production at the heart of saving jobs at the expense of saving the economy. Aware of this indifference that entrepreneurs are in trouble and that they do not have enough to invest, and do not have to invest chasing debts from one another, then go to state investments and try it as a strategy that has been more or less successful but I say at that time very well aware that the bauk indifference and the problem of lack of funds bothers the businessmen to clear this area of those who can, and they are burdened because many have told them how many of them exist on the market and should not exist on the market after 6 years again with debts, means letting them sail on their own. Those who are in trouble and who can survive this very way to force both the state and the banks and all the other believers of the people of your club are often critical of the banks but, in this respect, they are also brought into the business of responsibility to come. So this law went perfectly into debate before summer, the public debate was, in a public debate through two readings it's actually a law that if all the laws were like that I'd be the luckiest parliamentary representative to pass that way. And the regulation proves how difficult it was to bring. We're... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32389	Thank you. The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32390	Mr. Radenovica... In 2011, you won that election. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] And it was completely visible. A year and a half before the election was a clear trend in political relations and what will happen in the elections in late 2012, only the one who was particularly subjective, of course had some of his reasons he could not see it. There was time, there was space, not for the government to form and to assemble and chat in the first half of last year and to waste time. This made everything clear, and the situation did not deepen significantly in 2012. So in no parameter, only the trends that were present from the very beginning of 2012, were continued, but the paradigm changed and it changed practically from 5 months to 9 months when it was seen that it could not simply cut off what was not good, and on... the investment of growth or investment was not and the estimates were wrong. I'm saying this, and I totally think that it was visible to you too, only to those who were in power at the time, of course, they're themselves as a man when in power otherwise they can't believe it's happening to themselves, so they probably couldn't see it, but we all clearly saw what the result of these choices would be, so you had time to get ready and be ready to welcome the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32391	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32392	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Djurovic, you have now seen how it replicates to you, so he wants to convince us that something is good when you take 5 billion Croatian citizens out of your pockets and then show it as a budget reduction. Croatian citizens through VAT increases, through a different income tax structure, and everything else has been taken nearly 5 billion kunas from their pockets. But very interestingly, therefore, we all support and support the government regardless of what we said in the first reading when the law was passed, we clearly said that we were warning certain things that would not happen. Remember the announced list of debtors this summer, and all states will charge a great deal of billions. For 15 days it was interesting for the neighbor to see if he owed a tax, the ultimate effect and the whole story was charged 300 million that would be charged probably 90% of it and that it had not been published. This simply indicates one false assessment of the situation, and now most of these tax debts have disappeared in this 6 billion reduction because the blockades are what they are. And so it's not clear to me why he's always this long in the debate where we all support something. But don't let your colleagues and colleagues take our right not to tell you anything. If you expect support then give us at least the right and let us say, give us at least the right to say because we are going to see how much tax burden it is for Croatian citizens. As far as they're concerned, you'll see now at the end of the 2nd month, how much bigger the electricity bill is going to be, how much bigger the gas bill is going to be, and how much bigger the heating bill is going to be. If we're talking about what seemed positive for the economy. But apparently a very wrong assessment, a completely guilty economic policy based on the investment of large state-owned companies has been through a year, nothing has been done, but that year, a man would somehow forgive but look, we have lost definitely and the first seven months of this year because virtually no contests, are not performers... to work and all these huge investments will unfortunately not give effect until autumn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32393	Thank you very much. Now I'm gonna take the right to tell you something. This wasn't a replica at all, and then you say you don't want to talk. So you say, you always get the word when you ask for it, nor did I interrupt you because you spoke quite the opposite, none of what your colleague Djurovic was saying in the debate. Replication response, co-worker Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32394	When it comes to showing why electricity needs to be collected or when it needs to be shown to citizens why the gas needs to be collected, the tables are shown here in Germany, like this in France, like this in Finland, this way I don't know where, and you see in Croatia it's cheap. And when it comes to showing how much the tax press of Croatian citizens is, no one will go out with that plate and compare the tax press of Croatian citizens to EU citizens 27. It would be very interesting to see here if our Ministry of Finance came up with a presentation of the tax press, for example by categories of income, annual income, up to 20, 50 or 80,000 euros per year of income, what is this tax press of Croatian citizens, and let's say... receipts. I think they would find themselves among the most developed in the society of the most developed European states. And when it comes to these various registers that are shown, they are indeed, regardless of our good intentions to support clearing up certain things, I fully agree with you that these are actually various balloons that the ruling coalition has always bought only time and still buy. In the same way, they practically used the story of the register of Croatian defenders, and I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32395	And the final word of Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32396	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I thank you for the debate and for the bar from our part, you see that we are all trying and we are transparent and we respect your opinions and your suggestions. I thank you once again for your support and in this law, in the implementation of this law, because believe me, it's not simple, and when you talk about wrong assessments, I must honestly admit that I was very afraid when we came and saw it, so now it's not just about that amount of 45 billion indifference, it's certainly important, but when you see it inside it is and it's about some 70,000 companies, that you have 50, 60 thousand people working inside, in which way you go. And I agree in one part with you and we were personally dissatisfied that it hadn't started before, but I have to tell you that there was so much resistance when this law was passed because there was something new, there was no knowing what to go into, we didn't know what law to start from. You had different solutions, you had a solution from Germany, you had a solution from America, we had some Slovenian models, we had to apply something, we had to take something from a new one, start writing from a new one as if we were just born now. And we had to see, you saw from the first law that was passed here in July the month that the change between July and the 9th month was also important. The more people involved, the more we broke and passed that law. I agree, but actually that responsibility that we pushed from the Ministry of Finance we have to admit that we didn't have, I'm not talking about this home, but about what you're moving into in general, so don't touch it, so it can't touch it like this, so you're going to do this, you're going to do this, you're going to do this, a completely unknown area. Who's going to do it, who's thinking about who's going to do it, the minister tells me, I'm scared of who, the Ministry of Finance, brings me 45 billion, brings all the people... who are going to do it operationally, you're moving from the bankruptcy managers. You know, it's one big responsibility to get into such a process that you don't actually hurt your creditors, but to restructure companies. Every day we talk to these companies, we take them to the Ministry of Finance every day, we call the banks, and then we see one bank blocking, and the other one doesn't block. These are extremely difficult, difficult processes. I can't make a deal. Five banks are closing tomorrow. Based on what? Based on some solution that doesn't exist. We're going to explore how such solutions are made. It's extremely difficult for this law, and I wouldn't start with those misjudgements. The assessment is that it was an extremely difficult economic situation, we didn't accuse anyone. We said we had to do something and we're proactive, we've been proactive all year. But we simply think that this law will only now begin to pass when the general public is involved and entrepreneurs, when the banks, when they all actually started combing their balance sheets, are just now beginning to find solutions. Unfortunately, I wish such solutions were at the beginning of the year. We had declarative solutions. He can't, unconstitutionally, he needs it, Linic will share it with his friends. That's the kind of debate you've had. We were at 10 conferences, no one supported us. But I say thank you, too, in this part of what it is, I think this law will live and need to be continued and it is a new way of communicating between entrepreneurs. Is today's entrepreneurs better off with a new law? No, that's what I told you, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But we're trying and trying to get some order. Will this whole process last and this year? It will. Is there going to be a change? It will. We try, will we find the best solution, will everyone survive? He won't. But we do our best to discuss how to help each day. So we've had good judgments, we can just push one assessment, one brand-new concept, and it's extremely difficult. Now everybody praises him, now he's good and remember at the 4th month no one was good. We're not talking about you here. We're talking about the general public. He was no good to anyone. So what do you want? You'll destroy what's left. We're having a hard time pushing change, we think this is good, that we'll see what the effects will be, we'll see. I say, and we were skeptical of what the effects would be. We don't know, we'll see when the first solutions are made. Will the Dalekvod be saved or won't he or someone else? We'll see how the faithful agree. Extremely difficult, this law does not guarantee that everyone will survive. Do you want someone to survive one wood industry and the other? It's extremely hard and believe me every day with a stomach cramp, we come up here to solve these problems because every day some new problems come out. So it wasn't the evaluations, we're aware of the situation. We don't want to raise tensions but here's another thank you and what we said will go already in March will go back into debate. We want to comb all where we saw it again, and we adopt every comment you make, we listen because we think this law is not for one authority, but for all Croatian entrepreneurs to survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32397	Thank you very much, fellow Lalovac. I'm closing the debate. We'll stop the session and work for tonight. Tomorrow we will begin at 9.30 with the Report on the State of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2008 to 2012. At 12:00, we'll have a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-14-0.u32398	Report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. The debate on regulations is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is accepted on the basis of legal authority." Please state who's in favor of the report? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 118 votes in favour, 1 vote against, 1 vote with the abstention of the proposed conclusion.
