ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41184	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work at the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. We will now discuss: - Final proposal of the Law on Value Added Tax, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 312; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and you have received the proposal in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law apply to the adoption of this Law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on the Economy. You received the reports at the session. Before I call upon the proposing representative to further explain the proposal, one piece of information that we will be working without delay today because of a large number of reports. I now ask the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Boris Lalovec, to give an introductory explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41185	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. You have before you the Final Proposal for a VAT law which differs from the Proposal for a Law on Value Added Tax, which was on the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, in that the proposals were partially accepted during the debate in the Croatian Parliament and the proposals and remarks sent by the public and professional associations. In view of the fact that proposals and observations in the final draft of the law have been partially accepted, certain provisions have been amended as follows. Article 38, meaning the proposed VAT regulation of 5% on the newspaper, a newspaper publisher with media statutes printed on paper published daily and jointly publishing software content intended for continuous information to the public in current, social, or political, economic, cultural life and other events in the Republic of Croatia and the world other than those which are entirely or in most parts contain ads or serve advertising. It was also accepted, a proposal to lower the VAT rate to 10% for concert tickets. These are also proposed to apply reduced VAT rates 10% to accommodation services in nautical tourism water facilities, etc. charter. ... in Article 78, the provisions are proposed that the taxpayer is not obliged to issue an invoice for services provided by VAT as referred to in point (a) of Article 40(1) of the A to G, except in the case of foreign exchange operations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, Article 79 of improved language and generally prescribed provisions on the obligation to issue an account when it comes to transactions between taxpayers from the Republic of Croatia and another Member State in a way that the issue of an invoice is carried out in accordance with the rules of the Republic of Croatia. This is also the case where a VAT bill is proposed according to the tax charges collected for income taxpayers is respected in such a way as to provide that the taxpayer who is a taxpayer of VAT income tax may be charged on the basis of the benefits received or paid for the goods and services delivered by 31 December 2014. So in what could actually have been accepted through the debate itself, you saw, so from a 10% reduction in VAT for concerts and actually services, accommodation services in water charter facilities, those other ones where we actually failed to accept certain remarks because the directives did not allow it or because that particular effect was much greater than actually the current budget could stand. Especially when we talk about some food products where the Government of the Republic of Croatia has considered reducing VAT on certain food products. However, as we implemented a certain mini tax reform this year and last year, where there is a significant reduction in tax duties in the Republic of Croatia's budget, it is primarily thought of contributions where the effect is less than 2.5 billion kuna. Also this year is the application of reinvested profits where the first effects are already shown, where over one billion, one billion and a half kuna of the lower profit tax is based on the reinvested profit simply given the fiscal consolidation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia needs in this year and we know that the VAT for catering services was 10%. So they were significant, so not tax presses, but just discharging the economy in that part, in the tax section. So next year we'll try and see how the budget actually works. So we're actually going to if, if you put the possibility of actually reducing that part of VAT for certain food products. And what is very important for craftsmen is extended until 31 December 2014. What is important here is to say that the Financial Business and Pre-departure Act is in force, which is actually payment deadlines, by entering the European Union, we must comply with the payment deadlines directive which actually speaks of those 60 or 30 days of payment. So in this section, we think that if we stabilize payment deadlines and solve the liquidity problem this year, then it won't be that problem for craftsmen where there's still a year and a half to charge for their own, to realize VAT on paid realisations. But we will certainly monitor what happens in the economy, especially as far as payment and payment deadlines are concerned. So here's the, uh... For a year and a half, it certainly gives the government space to still have problems that are charged to try to solve them in fact with other legal solutions rather than VAT. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if we don't actually make it, then we'll actually see by that time we still have time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41186	I thank the Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the Croatian Labourists, the party of work and the respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41187	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and fellow MPs. As the budget is a first-class political issue, the VAT issue is also a political issue. when the Croatian government made a decision to raise VAT from 23% to 25, it showed the most direction and it actually gave citizens ahead of them a political programme. By increasing the rate from 23% to 25% of the burden of the crisis still in place in Croatia, we are one of the few countries that did not leave the recession, it was transferred to the back of Croatian citizens. The second direction that was determined, it was saving, cutting, cutting. Instead of doing what the countries in Europe did that came out of the crisis and that were back on their feet, Croatia opted for a different policy. For example, in Greece, we see that blind obedience is not important, but measures to heal the economy. The IMF has been leaking these days, wondering if they have put too much burden on the back of the Greek citizens because Greece today is much sicker than at the start of its religious economic treatment. Everything that can be destroyed is destroyed in Greece. 60% of young people are out of work. All the measures prescribed by the IMF, all the measures prescribed by the European Union, all the measures recommended by economic experts did not bear fruit. The austerity measures, it turned out, have caused great damage to Greece. However, the most cynical statement these days given by all these people who have very militantly committed themselves to cuts, for putting a burden on the back of citizens, is the following: a policy of social cuts in Greece takes time to limit the extent of the crisis in other euro area members. Greece was a guinea pig. She was told to do it. Croatia is not an experimental rabbit, it has reported itself, it is a volunteer of the experimental rabbit. No one in Croatia doubts their own meaning for an IMF policy. The Croatian government, which is now ruling the state, is the IMF's follow-up. It was a big mistake, it turned out, and that's what all economic indicators say, to increase VAT. Instead of increasing it by 8.7%, i.e. by 2 index points, it had to be reduced, consumption should be stimulated. For years, however, and before, the former government, the only thing that could be told to the people, was that they used to say, which the old ones remember, tightening the belt, and only those who didn't work tightened the belt with low wages and tightened the middle class belt. We know well that the retail trade is falling, and because it falls by introducing a higher rate, the second in line in Europe, and with the second in Europe, the country in recession is certainly not going to come out of recession, it was cut out to citizens from 5 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41188	Comrade Vuksic, I have no intention of limiting you or anyone else in the debate, but I have to take care of the Rules of Procedure. We have rules on the discussion in the second reading of the law, I will read to you: The second reading of the law includes the discussion of the text of the final draft law, the positions of the working bodies, the debate on amendments submitted, the decision on amendments and the adoption of laws. This debate is suitable for first reading when it comes to the context of a law being passed, but we either follow these rules, or we change the Rules of Procedure now, so we change them. But let's not, I really have nothing against it, you're speaking very nicely now, you're making an argument, but unfortunately you're speaking outside the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41189	I think your intervention is unnecessary. I guess it won't cut my exposure, I'm doing what I have to do, I'm doing my political work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41190	Yes, you must do so within the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41191	I don't think you're right because you want to take my word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41192	No, no, I'm just warning you to concentrate on the final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41193	This is, I'm talking about the law, so what am I talking about? Are I talking about pears and apples?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41194	You were talking about Greece.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41195	Yeah, yeah, about Greece, so what are we, an isolated island so we can't talk about Greece?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41196	No, but we have a final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41197	Now I'm going to talk about the final bill, but this all led to that law. I think your intervention and your impatience towards the opposition is becoming more obvious. Please calm down, don't lose your temper. The retail trade has fallen slightly as a result of an increased VAT, and this law speaks of VAT rates. If there is no one to buy manufactured goods, they will not be produced and jobs are lost in this way. We'll go back to Hungary, Italy, Austria and who will then charge the state's cash register, who will pay for the 25 per cent VAT. There was no courage for real reform, reconstruction, change and political, but indeed economic paradigms. So let's say that at the beginning of the show, it's going to be a year, two bad things, we're going to make economic moves, and there's going to be a number of economic moves, and after two years with a reduced VAT, we're going to start to grow, we're going to stimulate consumption. That's when we'd have the results today. However, the government's cowardice is being pressed against the predatory IMF and racketeering agencies. We're late for this VAT bill. And in our first reading, we talked about that the VAT Act should have been adopted earlier because the few businessmen who remained can prepare for new circumstances, in a new way of doing business. In particular, this should have given those businesses more time to adjust their business with both EU and CEFTA members. In particular, the VAT law should have been adopted before and because of those related to the business of the free zones to be abolished. Another one of the delusions to talk about is the zero VAT rate, and I talked about it and many others talked about it in the first reading of the VAT Act. Because we know that in the EU there are also rich countries and zero VAT rates and there are less than 5% VAT rates in even one country with the highest standard in the world. It's Luxembourg where there's a 3% rate. This final law, the draft VAT law, speaks of taxation of construction land, which has already been established to lead to a reduction in construction activities. It's a good thing the VAT Act in the second reading incorporated that the public debate led to VAT being paid at a lower rate at a concert rate of 10%. Since I've got a little time left, I'm going to talk to the end about VAT on the daily newspaper, or VAT on the press. We know it seems to me 2006 or 2007 I don't remember exactly the reduced VAT rate from 23% to 10% for the press. This provision is discriminatory because it has several absolutely unfounded decisions. Why isn't a 5% VAT height applied to all presses, informational presses? Why isn't it applied to weeks? Why don't you apply a 5% rate per week, I'll say one week that has Scandinavian reading. Let's say in Međimurje, which is bought by every other family, which is the main source of information from Međimurje. He will be in a discriminatory position compared to other presses. If we don't extend that 5% VAT to other presses, I'm afraid to the weekly presses that soon these presses won't be, that they'll disappear from the market because they're compared to other media in unfair competition. Jobs are questionable. We know that there are 700 journalists on the market right now. The budget loses this decision to cut VAT 25 million. By shutting down, however, he could lose far more. If this 5% VAT clause is expanded, the rest of the press will lose the budget slightly less, but eventually it will. There's an entirely illogical definition that's actually a daily print. He says it like this. The VAT provision is calculated at a reduced rate of 5% on the newspaper, a newspaper publisher who has the press statute, printed on paper published daily and published at least 25000 words as a general information paper in a copy of the daily edition. I think it is against only one newspaper in Croatia that I have nothing to defend because these newspapers were quite well-known to deal with with my views here in the Parliament. I am fighting for the principle in the paper with 50,000 words and in the newspaper with 500,000 words can be written so yellow, far more than it is in the paper with 25,000 words in one, in the copy of the daily edition. Therefore, I think this provision is wrong and must not stand in this law because the question of who will determine, who will count the words in the daily newspaper, who will determine what copyrights are. Whether the texts of external associates are copyrighted, whether the texts of the letter of readers who are also readers are authors. Are those copyrights? Another thing, can information that is useful to the public be characterized as something that damages the daily newspaper, which is all those notices that the daily newspaper publishes. Therefore, the formulation that the information paper that publishes less than 25,000 words in the copy of the daily edition is discriminatory, it refers to only one medium. And I think the clans got caught up in trying to get out of the market one newspaper or maybe one publishing house. Therefore, I think that the relationship to daily press should be reshaped and that everything that is actually a daily press should not be returned to censorship, so that some censors do not count the copyright lines every day and the question to whom those who believe that these author's lines or words have sinned against whom they can complain, within which time they can complain. I don't think it's appropriate for this complex law to have that formulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41198	Thank you, too. We've got two lines reported. First respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41199	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned your colleague Vuksic in the context of savings and cutting and decisions of the last government and... Yes, thank you, that the past government has forced citizens to tighten their belts, especially those with small wages. [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I assume you meant, among other things, the special tax that many here and in this assembly called harachum. That's just not true. So we had a special tax that lived a little more than a year, so the first rate was about a year, and the second rate by the end of 2010, we covered all those who had revenues of more than three thousand kuna. So, 900 thousand pensioners were exempt from that tax and 600, about 600 thousand employees were exempt from that tax. And that's a fact. And I repeat, because of the difficult situation, because I remind you that in 2009, GDP fell almost 7%, of course because of the stabilisation of the budget, we were forced to take emergency measures and all in relative agreement with both trade unions and employers. So, in social dialogue. And as for the principle of savings, I think the time has come regardless of the growth of VAT, the growth of forgiveness of GDP 6% or the fall of 6% that the time of savings has come, which means that there is no way as a state and then all units of local administration and self-government can never spend more than we have, so more than we earn. It becomes one rule in principle, so I am very looking forward to entering the EU on 1 July because it is a fundamental principle on which all the other members live. After all, we also passed the Fiscal Responsibility Act. [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41200	The replica corresponds to the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41201	Dear colleagues Kosor, we also led a similar replica in our first reading. Yeah, you need to save up, you said. In fact, we don't have to throw money around, and we often throw money around, we don't know what to invest in. Yeah, we can't spend more than we have, but we need to know we have. The thing is, by saving, by tightening the belt, by increasing the VAT, are we going to create conditions to start production and make that GDP higher, or are we going to reduce it? Your government was doing the wrong thing in my opinion. Eight years, I'm sorry, I don't know those boundaries that are yours, which isn't your government, eight years of the HDZ government wouldn't have been that border because many of them were sitting in that government that were later in the government of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, so they were in the government of Ivo Sanader, so they supported it, I don't know. These are your internals, I see as a whole the government, eight years of HDZ rule. Therefore, you know how to cut it with a sword or a razor to cut off who's responsible for what. You didn't admit to the crisis when the whole world was buzzing about the crisis, then HDZ said what a crisis. The finance minister was Mr. Shucker who said what crisis, no crisis, what crisis. We were then a lonely island and were around us almost erected a wall so that the crisis would not come to us. Revenues, you said you taxed those who had more than 3,000 kunas. Is not 3500 kuna a man living in poverty? You know how much a union basket costs? The least one family should have? However, governments so far have not been able to contain the crisis and have not been able to stimulate production.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41202	The second line is respected representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41203	Thank you very much. You spoke about article 38 and the different treatment of daily newspapers. So any legal provision should be clear and based on rational reasons. What moved this change to happen between the two readings? In the first reading, this was not the proposal, no one suggested it in the first reading debate, and now that change has happened. Different tax treatment would have to be socially justified. What is the social justification for treating a different tax newspaper daily that has 24500 words and a newspaper that has 25501 words? No, there's no reason, no reason, and they're the only ones who can be irrational. And that must not be in the law at all, irrationality, especially inconsistencies. What does the term media statute mean? That term does not exist, and if there is a re-entering it and then it has to be explained what it is. However, media statutes will later be explained. This does not exist in Croatian at all, and it is used in all articles. And a law that implies terms such as a significant violation of the principle of competition, completely unclear terms such as carrying out activities in a negligible range that no one can determine what it is, it cannot be a good law at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41204	The replica matches Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41205	You told Mr. Maric that the irrational reasons for introducing this definition is the daily press, that the daily press is not a newspaper that has less than 25 thousand words in one instance, that they are irrational. No, I think they're very rational and that, as I said, they got involved with the clans and they said, "Let's put this newspaper in and let me have less than 25 thousand words, I guess they counted carefully because there would be 30 thousand words." Don't worry, this didn't just go in there because someone thought of it like that, someone said let's do some boundaries. First, it's tragic it's not just comical this is tragic. And this shows that there are no favors on the political scene and that there are those political players and those who support these political players and are even able to impose a tax law to remove competition from the political scene. What exactly is the daily newspaper that has 25 thousand words and plus one word and a newspaper that has 24999 words? What makes them different? What if that newspaper sues, who's they gonna sue? A word counter, and that's probably the government. How will it be determined? Maybe they miscalculated one word. I think this is a crazy definition of the daily newspaper provision. We who have been in the media for many years know what the media is, and this is one of the most perfidious attempts to eliminate from the scene a medium that I say again that has really been counting before, just so I don't mention the names of the media, but I'm fighting for the principle.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41206	We continue the debate by clubs, on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, the esteemed colleague Damir Cain will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41207	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy Minister, Yes, due to EU accession and this will happen in a few days 1.7.2013. Croatia must adopt a new VAT law but must also adopt a new general tax law. So the VAT bill was passed when? In '95, it started to apply from 1.1.1998. I remember back in '95, Mr. Lutenberger and I proposed differentiated rates at the time of VAT 5% on food, without a zero rate of 11% tourism i.e. 2% of the total rate. In 2006, Minister Shuker introduced a 10% VAT on accommodation and breakfast, half boards, 2012 that type of taxation was extended to food in tourism and indeed no one should at least cheat on accommodation and food after that. The question may be, would it be wiser to tax export economies with 10%, for example? wood processing industry or auto parts production. It's also true that 2009. The VAT was raised from 22% to 23%, from 23% to 25%, but the 10% VAT was introduced on sugar, oil, fat, baby food. It's too bad the pre-tax was lifted first of all for cars. I'm not going to say that that's why the sale with 88 grand fell to 30 grand but it happened after the suspension of this pretax and clearly that each of us would like that VAT to be as small as possible and not bigger. A pre-tax on the team has also been lifted, but we can see again that the fiscal cash registers have contributed to the state's cashier's spending much faster than before the introduction of a 10% VAT. Also, VAT from 80,000 kunas was raised to 230 thousand kunas, which was valuable and logical to expect and we see this legal intervention abolishing the zero VAT rates because this institute that I so express is not known. It knows the release of VAT as done in articles 39.p. to 45. What's the point? So since 1.1.2015, construction land becomes subject to taxation. Croatia we see here is left without free zones that have not yet come to life, too bad. The defenders will pay VAT on imports of cars, religious communities will not be released from donations, VAT will be paid, etc. It is true that VAT is the income of the state budget that is the highest tax. We can also say that this VAT law is, in a way, the law of all laws. Why? Because based on VAT, the budget is charged with almost 40%. The fact is also that in Croatia true decentralisation will not be until one part of whether it will be 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8% of VAT will not miss or lower local self-government whether for hospitals, schools, social services etc. When we talk about Article 3.Then we see that a whole series of countries simply excluded certain areas from the use of VAT, so we see that this happened in the Federal Republic of Germany both in Spain and Italy, Livigno, Campione d'Italia, Italian waters of Lake Lugano, the Republic of France, in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the so-called ‘Republic of Greece’, the Republic of Finland, and even in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Canal islands. So both Germany and Italy and France and Finland and Greece and Spain have certain exception zones. Unfortunately, I said those free zones in Croatia didn't work. But why am I saying that? I'm saying it first and foremost because, according to this new structure and exporters, they're going to be in a situation where they're going to pay VAT. Economic parameters less or less know what they are, we have a drop and a gross product, and industrial production, inflation is slightly higher, retail trade. Foreign investment is also significantly lower. But no matter what the fact is, the Ministry of Finance is currently one of the most popular ministries, or Minister Linic is the most popular minister. Our citizens feel that individuals simply have this vision and simply know what to do. When it comes to the export economy or exporters, this is, in particular, Article 45 where VAT payments are free of a particular transaction. For example, the supply of goods from the Republic of Croatia by the supplier or by another person to his account outside the European Union, other than the supply of fuel and equipment goods, supply of any means of transport, delivery of goods to authorised bodies which export them from the European Union, etc. But what this means is that the rest of our exporters who will perform on the European Union markets will clearly come into a position to pay VAT. I'm afraid it's going to be a small export anyway, but I know it's a perfectly logical provision and it's still a guess. Let's say 2008 exports were 9.5 billion kuna, 2012. Nine.6 billion kuna. Last year's deficit compared to 2008, here's 11 billion kuna. And I'm afraid that means exports might be even smaller. However, as I said, we simply have no other solution. We are the meaning of 1. Seven. 2013 Part of the Single European Market. For the entry into the European Union, we fought to express myself to my brother for 20 years. I believe that Europe will be a new market that will help us withdraw and certain funds. Although we must also be honest and admit that Croatia will be very participating in the Brussels budget register. What's interesting about this legal solution is these releases too. So I mentioned earlier in exporting but there is also the release of VAT payments for some other activities, transactions, insurance, resecuritisation, loan approval, transactions including intervention related to current and jury accounts. Article 41 speaks of exemptions for the delivery of goods within the European Union. 42. speaks of some other of these types of liberation, etc. Why am I saying that? Croatia loses from 1. 7. Right to the convenience of CEFTA. If it were up to me, it would probably be either either one of you if we were in Sarajevo, we'd react the same way. But the fact is, we're going to lose one of the highest and most grateful markets. In one word, there is no market for us to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm afraid, for example. Yes, and some companies in Istria announce that within 2 years, maybe 3 years, Bosnia and Herzegovina will be on the road. The transmission of electricity, I also see here that these fees have been released and the key to the law is certainly this Article 38, which speaks about VAT rates. So it's said what the rate of 25% is calculated for and what these differentiated rates of 5% and 10% are simply applied to. So 5% for bread, books, drugs, movie tickets, 10% hotel service. And here I would only notice or perhaps I should intervene with the amendments in that part that even boaters are involved or treated as hotelers. Well, they're kind of like I'm gonna say floating hotelers, no need to cheat on those cards now, let's give them 10%. And I think that's how we're going to profit everyone, that's how they're going to profit from the state budget. Article 39 speaks of the release of VAT, for example, on the delivery of organs, blood, dental preparations, then there are other services, sports, etc. However, as I said at VAT, banks, insurance companies referred to in Article 40 were released. VAT is a tax which is clearly paid by the final customer, etc. All in all this is surely one of the more complete laws. It is no wonder that taxes are what some countries are probably most interested in, but the law is crucial both in fact or because of the fact that the basis of this particular policy will fill the state budget and surely in due course it will be far more difficult to escrow obligations, but I hope that our taxpayers will be able to operate more easily than they have been so far. All in all new time, new laws, and I agree that 5% of the rate should be extended not only to daily newspapers, but also to other presses, like weekly or monthly ones. And once again, I would like to particularly apostrophe the case of these small shipmen who organize these circular voyages around Kornath, Brijuni and so on, to see the coast. I think that either by amendment of the Government or by representatives should treat them in some way as well as other hotelers and that VAT on their activity should be accounted for at a reduced rate of 10%. If this is done for accommodation or accommodation services with breakfast and half board or full board in hotels, if it is 10%, if food preparation services are paid and food services are provided in those catering facilities, if, simply and in other tourism activities, this reduced rate of 10% applies, then I think those shipowners who address us daily, probably to the people of the Ministry, should also be included in this differentiated VAT accounting. All in all, it's understandable that we have nowhere to go but to support one of these VAT laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41208	Thank you. We will now hear the SDP and colleague Ivo Jelusic's views.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41209	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. This law, of course, has an E mark, means that in the main part of the alignment with the European Union directives, but still beyond the usual practice, we went with this law in two readings which is good. We've had enough time because it's proven to have really caused it, that this law has caused a lot of debate and it's good to go in two readings, if anything else is to be said about some things and twice to be heard better. This law is very important because VAT, or VAT law, touches every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, all of us in some way pay services and good, every day we meet with this VAT and therefore it is important and therefore it is very important to assess how much VAT is determined in the part where there is a room for manoeuvre, and there is very little room for manoeuvre because the directives of the European Union that we simply need to install into this law are many things defined. So this narrowed space that remains at our disposal how to arrange it is simply the subject of these discussions in the first reading, and now. Of course, whenever it comes to taxes, we all act this way, everyone would like his goods and his services, whether it is produced or bought, to be less taxed, to keep the tax as low as possible, and on the other hand, they would like to see the budget, which is largely tax-filled as much as possible, their activity, etc. So everyone would like to give as little as possible and take as much as possible. Of course, that's legitimate, but that's why the government is there who just has to set the limit as much as anyone needs to give and as much as who needs to get. So I said that in many things there is no room for manoeuvre to change when it comes to tax rates because the directives are so defined. There have been proposals in the first reading and otherwise in the debate that for certain services, for some imports, etc., VAT importers are released, and that is simply not acceptable in the European Union directives. I understand if people suggested it because they were uninformed, first of all I think about two items that were mentioned before, it was about importing car for defenders and paying VAT for church goods that they import, for religious communities. So if people didn't know or didn't have information that this was simply not possible in accordance with the European Union directives, I understand that, but if they knew that and if they were still proposing how they were raising each other, then it's not right and it's a little unfair. But at least now we know that this is not possible and I hope that there will be no more manipulation with such suggestions and such attitudes. Of course, we can't stop anyone from saying what they want, but we also have the right to say what's true. Through the remarks that were in the first reading, and there were plenty of them, I think he would first of all like to commend the government, or the Ministry of Finance and the Resolute Ministry, that in their arguments they have referred to all the proposals, regardless of which they respect, which they do not, and if they do not respect, give an explanation why they do not respect them. In that sense, I think it is a good approach to make so that everyone can see how his proposal went and why it was accepted, or why it was not accepted. However, I must say, while it should be quite correct to state who put out a specific proposal or to the end correctly because it turns out that the SDP club didn't have any... and I know that it had them because I, on behalf of the SDP club, was at least three, and this turns out that we haven't made any suggestions that some things were changing. Of course, through tax policy, and this VAT tax is also reflected in the government's policy. And therefore, in this VAT Tax Act, there are no major and significant changes in terms of the tax solutions that this government has introduced so far, because it is the same government and politics has not changed in that part. And it was primarily when it comes to VAT aimed at stimulating the development of the economy, so to allow the economy to be less burdened and more competitive. For example, we reduced the tax rate on tourism services not only to accommodation and nutrition, but to a total catering offer other than alcohol because we wanted our tourism economy, our hotelers, the hosts to be more competitive or competitive than the environment, that the state with its high VAT did not raise their prices but simply open up a space for or lower prices or leave funds for them for new investments, new investments, etc. And those funds aren't small. This year, it is estimated that the tourism economy will remain around a billion kuna and so much less in the budget because the VAT rate has been reduced from 25 to 10%. However, there have been some inaccuracies here, colleague Caine, I don't think he's here right now. He said that VAT should stimulate exporters, better mention of wood industry, etc. It's just that all exporting companies, regardless of what they export in the window, are freed of VAT because every service and goods exported is not loaded with VAT and is not on the VAT invoice, so I don't know, he probably missed it. But the truth is, correctness works so that it doesn't stay hanging in the air. So we went to the citizens in the area where it is possible to help maximum, so we reduced the previous period and VAT rate to sugar, oil, fat, water, children's food, etc. Now in this proposal between the first and second readings, therefore the rate has been reduced for some other things where there have been serious remarks, for example about ticket prices for concerts. And that was also the SDP's attitude to lower that rate from 25 to 10%. Because we respect the fact that in all countries in our environment it is so. Therefore, in order not to make our concert directors more competitive and to make these tickets more expensive for us, we simply went to equalize it with everyone in our environment to put them in the same economic position both. What was wrong with the whole debate because all those who deal with the team, all those who are on the estrad, so they have more power and opportunity to get to the media, to the microphone, to the cameras than to have ordinary citizens, so then they can make more noise, I don't mind. That's all it takes to be correct. I remember very well I won't talk about names, but famous artists or artists went out to the cameras and said Vlado didn't introduce that tax to 25% concerts. Although the government had not introduced this tax to concerts has been so far, it has never been changed, but the requirement to lower it. What am I saying? There was also one incorrection in the sense that maltenes are accused of introducing some kind of new or increased tax even though it was not true. But regardless of the correctness, here we are in this proposal, we have been faced with the fact that this is done not because of their incorrectness, but simply because of equating these activities with those involved and in our environment to simply bring them into the same competitive position. There were demands, of course, about some other activities. However, the question arises and where is the end, is there no such goods or services or little has goods and services for which too much or under quotes is too much to explain why it is necessary to lower the rate from 25 to 10 or 5%, because there is always an explanation, even justification. However, the question is simply whether it is possible to understand and the question is why, if all of this were to be accepted, how much would it be at the end of the VAT. Because I'm going to mention this here, there were suggestions from hairdressers, florists, etc. However, a second reading can be made, why not shoemakers, butchers, why these yes, these ones do not. Thus, two things must be taken into account. First, to protect the standard of citizens and, on the other hand, not to put this activity in an unfavourable position. Where activity is exposed to competition, and now absolutely competition in the EU market, of course, should be introduced the VAT rate as it is in the environment so as not to bring this activity into an uncompetitive position. But for those services where, regardless of VAT, we're not going to put that in an uncompetitive position, it doesn't really make any big economic sense. The more we have in mind that even when the VAT rate is reduced, often this does not affect price reductions, but the tax rate decreases, prices for citizens remain the same, and the difference remains for the economic operator who does so. Now what does he do with that money? Whether to improve your liquidity, whether to pay or put it in your pocket, that's what we don't know. But that's why I say often it's also important to take care of these aspects of what happens at the end of the day when that VAT comes down. I was talking about tourism. So, a billion kunas left by this government's policy to the tourism economy, I would like it to be reflected through new investments, that investments be increased in that part, that through new development, through increased competitiveness, in that part of which we will have better hotels, a better service. But if it ends up in profits or in the hands of the owner, then that measure has not won its result. I hope that the result will just be as I said before, which is that these funds are used to improve and develop activities, not for the personal benefit of the owner. For these services, therefore craftsmen spoken of, of course, it should be taken into account that all those who have income at an annual level below 230 thousand kuna and thus do not have to be in the VAT system, so they do not have to count VAT on their services. Only those who have higher incomes are bound to do so. There was also a lot of debate and the position of the SDP club in the first reading was when it came to craftsmen and this caused a lot of debate about their way of paying VAT, i.e. when to pay VAT. So far it has been a practice to pay for the realised, in the original proposal in the first reading, it was to be by invoiced realization, by invoice, therefore not by charge. In view of the overall situation in craftsmanship, and generally in the economy, a change has been made between the two readings and this application has been delayed and provisions for the next year and a half days when we expect significant changes in the economy and in the manner of payment and liquidity, etc. Personally, I do not think there is any reason in more stable conditions that and by which treatment differs in a tax sense when it comes to small craftsman VAT from small entrepreneurs because they are more or less in a similar position. Therefore, I personally believe that in the long run if we seek any solutions that they must go towards equating the status of both small entrepreneurs and craftsmen to a certain level of income that can be discussed. So I thank the promoter for the fact that many of the justified reasons for the first reading that we had accepted here, and for those who did not accept it, they gave a valid explanation, i.e. a clear enough explanation to see why they did not accept it. And I think this law is ready for adoption in a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41210	Thank you very much. We've registered three replicas. First respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41211	Dear counterpart Jelusic fully agrees with your sentence when you say you should take care to protect the standard of citizens. I don't think there's a man in this assembly who would disagree with that sentence, but the standard won't be protected by an increase in VAT and, for example, by the cost of energy. That's not how you protect yourself. You said a mantra likely to repeat itself in this House for months, as in the last period before the 1990s, the same mantra was said but so they decided in Belgrade, and here they decided in Brussels. You said when you talked about it, about an exemption from the D.A.'s VAT and sacral objects, that it wasn't possible. I think it actually happened in media manipulation. Sacrifice facilities in Croatia are in specific status because there was war in Croatia. Therefore, if the negotiators had negotiated many things, they could have happened differently and anything could have happened. We have seen in the examples of many countries when we are served here that there are no zero rates, that there are zero rates, that there are reduced rates of food. Therefore, it depends on how we negotiated and what was in our interest. Maybe we did, I'm not saying our negotiators weren't skilled. Maybe they were skilled, maybe they're more skilled than we think, because they thought they'd charge the register, which they should tax. They knew certainly more options than my little bit as much as they could, which they couldn't, but that's how they decided on behalf of the citizens. So I think it is not impossible, that it is only possible if there is a will and that we still need to decide in Zagreb about our status.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41212	The replica matches Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41213	A colleague, Vuksic, I said that when VAT rates are determined, two things must be taken into account, the standard of citizens and the interest of the economy. So to make the economy more competitive or higher VAT rates, not to make the economy competitive, but also to take care of the standard of citizens, so I listed exactly some things that you deliberately did not hear where the rate was reduced, which are the daily needs of citizens. Of sugar, oil, fat, water, children's food, etc. That's what this government has brought down. So that's what I'm talking about. As for religious objects, I deliberately did not want to talk about those who were conducting negotiations this time and why they did not negotiate better or not. Because it's done, it's done, it's done, it's not fixed. What has been negotiated is negotiated, must be incorporated into all our laws and there is no more discussion about it. I agree with you that many or some things could have been negotiated better. We weren't in power when the negotiations were held, the HDZ was in power, but I don't want to criticize them this time. It will turn out to be a constant criticism of HDZ, they experienced their criticism in the elections. I hope it's the bad way to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41214	The Republic is also attended by a respected colleague, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, colleagues Jelusic will hear the next sentence many times, which is the fact that 2011. The HDZ government had a second and third quarter economic growth of 0.6% and 0.8%. We warned you in this assembly that raising the VAT to 25% more than a year ago would act pro-recessionally and would bring new job losses. It all happened together. However, the government has decided to save the state budget for a short period of time without seeing that it is just destroying economic growth and the Croatian economy as a whole that will endanger the state budget itself. That's what's happening today. Unfortunately, the Croatian state is not an industrially high export economy, God has given that, if we want it to become it will take years and years and probably more mandates of effort and work more governments. And as for what you said about a billion kuna as far as VAT is concerned in tourism is actually given in the tourism sector, is it then a message from this government that it is worth focusing exclusively on tourism activities in Croatia, that domestic and foreign entrepreneurs really shouldn't think at all about what they should invest in and what should think about when investing in Croatia, so I don't think they should. So we are witnessing that today the EU's most unsuccessful countries, unfortunately, are those that depend exclusively on tourism. So, every honour of tourism, tourism has proved to be a feather and grows even in times of crisis. The issue remains open, had it not been for the Arab Spring, would our tourism sector have been so successful? Thank God he did, I mean successful on the side of the Arab Spring. But all of its strengths every wise government must focus on the development of the entire economy, ours still depends on consumption today, and the industry to be developed into which the best witnesses are to be invested unfortunately sent to bankruptcy in the midst of the business and the export business that he could do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41216	And this replica corresponds to Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41217	My fellow Milosevic, we don't have time, I don't think I'm going into macroeconomic debates about the position of tourism in the economy, some country or in general in Europe, but just one sentence, I mean not that I'm defending tourism, and you're attacking it. In a crisis when people don't have money, the first thing they give up? They give up travel and tourism for what they can do without. And what you can't give up without, so because of the decline in tourism, it's always not the thing since yesterday. But to go back to economic growth. You said you guys had growth in two quarters. I don't know how much you said, but it doesn't matter. But when a man looks at this, it turns out it's a real shame you didn't stay in power when you started when you were growing up when everything was good. Well, if that were the case. It's a good thing you didn't start pulling out how one day you had growth, so now you find a few days when you had growth. The fact is that since the crisis started in 2008, Croatia has had a total GDP decline, so not growth, but a fall to about 10 if I don't speak exactly 10.5%. Of these 10.5% declines in Croatia 1.5% only happened for the governments of the SDP and everything else during your rule. So from the downfall that's enormous, 90% of you have the credit for that fall. So much for your growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41218	The third and last line is a colleague of Goran Maric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41219	Thank you very much. Your colleague Jelusic was talking about some absurd situations, that sometimes a reduction in the tax rate or VAT does not lead to a decrease in prices. No law should lead to absurd situations, but it can only be avoided if it is known what is to be achieved by what measure. What is to be achieved by some measure which treats one sector or one good or one service other than another, more favourable than another sector than another service or another subject. You said it encourages competitiveness, just the opposite. Most of the tax provisions so far have spurred incompetence, and not often but never led to a reduction in prices. There is no case where a person or sector or activity has been taxed and a reduced price has occurred. The Croatian citizen has never felt positive about it. Then the question is, why is that? Because there's a lot of irrationality. For example, the conditions for deduction of the pre-tax Article 60. The right to deduct a pre-tax has one who doesn't pay the bill. It is therefore necessary to pay the tax on the account of the non-payment of the tax, and the person who has not paid the invoices to any supplier has the right to deduct that VAT from that account, only to enter a provision of the conditions for the deduction of the pre-tax in paragraph f, that it may be refused if an example of the invoice is issued in accordance with Article 78(1) of that law even though the account is paid. We would make such a level playing field on the market and avoid any difficulties that arise in budgetary and entrepreneurship as well. That he has no right to deduct the pre-taxes of the one who hasn't paid that bill, and it hasn't been settled in years, and there's the key to the solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41220	I'm a colleague of Maric's. And this replica corresponds to Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41221	Since the beginning of application of the value added tax in '98, this is a provision that you disagree with. And if you were your government of the HDZ, you would have introduced it immediately in the beginning, no one would have changed it because it was a reasonable solution. However, today, when we have accumulated a huge indifference in which you and your government have contributed well, it is difficult now at once for the entire economy for the whole system to change the way VAT is calculated. that is possible for small entrepreneurs and that is why I said that small entrepreneurs should be treated differently. But who told you that when VAT was introduced to introduce such a system, there would be no major fractures, and it would be good. So now you're giving us your sins, but good thing you're at least aware of your sins.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41222	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. The HDZ club's position will be brought closer to us by respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41223	Dear colleagues. So here is the law we are discussing today, and in a second reading, as many predecessors have already said, is to the greatest extent the harmonisation in this part of it now and the last technical harmonisation needed for EU membership. However, although it is a broad law, it is obvious that the most dispute and debate in this assembly is actually causing those parts of the law where this harmonisation leaves freedom to the state itself to decide as it deems necessary. There was already talk here about whether negotiations could have, as counterpart Jelusic said, that time had passed, it could be discussed and shared again with the reasons why something was negotiated the way it was. However, each European directive leaves behind, and in particular this in the tax segment leaves a part of the Member State’s decision to decide on it on its own and as appropriate to its individual economic circumstances. One of those decisions is the question of the number and the rate seen. Therefore, the directive recommending that the State applying VAT has one rate, that it can have more rates and that the lowest rate cannot be less than 5%. Everything else remains, in fact, for the decision of the state itself. And just one of the first and I mean the biggest obstacles and for us in the HDZ Club is the way some services and some products are classified at lower tax rates. Or more specifically, it's about treatment issues at tax rates, newspapers, media. But I would also say in a broader context, the issue of tax treatment is generally printed. In fact, the moment the tax collector goes into sorting a generic identical area at different tax rates, then what we see actually happens is exactly what we see in this law. I'm sorry for the expression, but there's really no such thing as unsatisfactory criteria, for example. with a number of words. According to my knowledge, it doesn't exist anywhere. But such criteria are, in fact, the consequence of the tax collector's wishes, the wish of the legislator to make a tax instrument a little more suitable for someone and a little less. And it's not just about stopping here about the issue of the media coming out on paper and having the statutes of the media and texts of at least 25 thousand words in that release. It's actually a broader picture that I'd like to draw your attention to. Because at a rate of 5% other than the proposed treatment of daily media, for example, scientific papers. But magazines for culture and art are at a 10% rate along with other newspapers. Books are at a rate of 5%, that is, if we want to look honestly and reasonably at the space of printed media, the space of preservation of culture, cultural heritage, science and all that is sometimes hard to find in the market world, and there is hardly any justification for this kind of distinction. Why should magazines promoting culture and art be more taxed than scientific magazines or daily media that have at least 25 thousand words in a daily printed edition. It is absolutely a relevant question of how the tax administration will monitor it, so we look forward to it. But this reveals the will, desire and ambition of the legislator to go on point, individually to some individual media or some individual parts of social space, as probably the legislator considers necessary and how it is consistent with its ideological framework. And I don't think there's any law that says the law can't work. And value added tax is actually a form of tax that is not suitable for such definitions. Of course. Many here have been said that it is necessary to keep the standard of citizens and it is clear that the value added tax is a tax that is by definition borne by citizens. And the change in taxation goes either to burden or to the benefit of the standards of these citizens. And you know what the message of this tax rate determination is? The message is that the value added tax was raised to 25% so that it could then go individually to individual industries and, individually, by decision of the legislator, by the tax administration, to those industries or by their parts put them in a more favourable position. And on the burden of the citizens. Because they carry a basic rate. It is expressed here that desire and hope that value added tax could be lower. It cannot be lower and will not be lower the basic rate of value added tax as long as these lower rates are spread through each change of laws every time. And it goes to the burden of Croatian citizens and they need to know. So to make these media up to 25, 25 thousand words, so that all of this could be at a lower tax rate, the basic tax rate is 25. Of course, in this context, Croatian defenders also appear rightly because the entry into the European Union has been abolished and part of the benefits enjoyed by Croatian defenders. However, this does not mean that Croatian defenders should remain without these rights. They can only be realized through other instruments. And whether it will be realised through other instruments is the right and decision of our country. And it is clear that Croatian defenders are then asking a question, which is why they cannot maintain their rights if it is possible to give rights to others whose position in society is quite different and their outcome is quite different from Croatian defenders. A concrete instrument that can ensure that the rights of Croatian defenders that have been realised so far through the tax system are maintained is naturally on the dissipated side. As the Croatian State carries the costs of getting cars and some other aids for the 1st group, it is possible and none of them prevents us from having some of the existing rights given through taxes and in times of membership realised through the expenditure itself, however, we do not have such a proposal. We have some other suggestions that I assume are far more important to the current government. And finally, another important observation to this law that we have concerns, of course, the treatment of small entrepreneurs. Under the current arrangement, craftsmen, i.e. taxpayers of income tax, have the right to pay VAT at the time of billing. I would like to underline, paying the VAT at the time of billing does not mean not paying the VAT and it is quite unclear why the Proposer opposes and resists the introduction into our legal system of possibilities provided by the directive for all small entrepreneurs, especially if the Proposer boasts his successes in tax collection. There is no fear then if the tax collection successes are so good, there is no fear that such a measure that is possible, which exists in the European Union, would have been abused here because in 2010, the European Union also adopted a directive that says that in Member States it is possible to enable and introduce VAT payments on invoices, so at the time of billing, for all small entrepreneurs whose annual turnover is less than 500 000 euros. Therefore, the Union has adopted this measure to improve the competitive position of small entrepreneurs, all of them. Let's just let if they're taxpayers on income like we have today or if they're potential taxpayers. This is again an example that the Government is not willing to transpose into our legislation provisions that are important for competitiveness and exist in directives. This is the case we had at the time when we were discussing the fund industry, which is the case we had in mind when we discussed the excise duty law which we managed to correct to our amendments to the Government that electricity excise duties applied at the same rate as in the European Union, and not at twice the rate and again here again third time, the Government does not want to include in the law anything that is possible with the directives. It is not just a question of what it was, therefore, that our membership in the European Union is much more a question of what it will be, and that refusal to accept and involve this possibility simply reduces the competitiveness of Croatian entrepreneurs. And it's not just a matter of liquidity and liquidity, it's a general question of the position of small entrepreneurs on the market because it's always a small entrepreneur who's objectively faced with the danger that his position on the market, that his relationship in the contract is unfavourable simply because he's small and simple because it's easier to put aside than a big businessman. I hope that the promoter will answer why and therefore refuses to provide Croatian entrepreneurs with something that small entrepreneurs in other Member States of the European Union have. Yes, the directive says it can and because it says it can allow the state itself to decide for itself. So the harmonisation and adaptation with the European Union is not just a set of rigid and mechanical rules, within these rigid and mechanical rules there are many instruments and there are also freedoms of course as it should be, that the state determines its tax system and its rules in accordance with individual circumstances of a country. And the result of all that, the result exactly as I would say, and stubborn policies are visible in our everyday life, visible in economic indicators, visible in our society. Although I am not a supporter of the debate between you and me, you or them, unfortunately fellow Jelusic we will all be very happy when your government achieves growth in two consecutive quarters. We'll be very happy. Thank you very much. HDZ will not accept this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41224	We're moving on to replicas that are exactly five. Branko Vuksic first answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41225	Dear fellow Dalic, here at the very end you have established what we often repeat in Parliament, adaptation and harmonisation is not a set of rigid rules, so there are no imperatives in many cases, although we want to present to the Croatian public that everything the government does must be so because it is said in Brussels. You were talking about the treatment of the press, the incoherent as you said the criteria. One of the criteria is the number of words that I also don't know exist somewhere in Europe to measure the number of words something that should be taxed at a higher rate and slightly lower rate. There are journalists like I said before who are the frames with more than 25,000 words to write lies, to invent, to yellow, to invent interviews and to make up that print has a total of 50,000 words, 100,000 words and to be taxed at a lower rate. So you said that this is a rule I hope will be rejected by the tax collector's desire to please certain publishers. I think this is the consequence if you consider a tax collector a state, or government, that it is the result of the desire of certain political circles to tax something that has not tended to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41226	The replica matches Martin Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41227	Thank you very much. So that the truth is everything you fellow Vukusic listed I said more or less. What I may not have said, and in fact the answer to your replica, is that common sense clearly shows that this sorting of press and magazines and weekbooks through two tax rates based on arbitral criteria is pointless. All this must be at one rate if she is five, whether she is 10, HDZ will propose an amendment accordingly. And if this is about fostering culture and the press and communication and public speech then it's quite clear that this should be a 5% rate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41228	Ivo Jelusic will present another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41229	Comrade Dalic, you said that you HDZ will be happy when two quarters are positive. I trust you, as you believe me, that I am disappointed that in your last rule, your four-year term, the last four years of your term, we have had a 9% drop. I am not saying this because I am against you, but because I am sorry that Croatia is in such a state and that you have given it to us in such a state. Now that we have 2% of our growth, if God gives us, it takes us five years to cancel that fall that you created in the last term, five years, five years, two percent. So that's the state you left behind, so I just want things to be said out loud and clear. As far as VAT growth is concerned, you said something like this. If we had increased VAT by two percentage points to the citizens so that we could benefit from some part, a certain part of the economy and industry. I understand when on behalf of the HDZ Club, it's about favoring, because it seems that you only understand that the government is serving to please someone. We don't favor anyone and we just did this. So we've all, we've increased the VAT rate by two percentage points, but we've literally reduced everyone in the economy's health care contribution rate by 2%. Not to some, but to all. And about the effect in the budget is the same. If we hadn't increased the VAT rate and left the old tax contribution, the same amount would have been in the budget. We weren't politicians, so we weren't raising citizens, but we said let's develop the economy, burden the citizens, but not all the same. Those with higher salaries and higher spending will pay more VAT, those with less, less VAT. And one more thing. Those who have lower salaries have been reduced by income tax by two percentage points. So we did them analizing this loss which will lose due to the increase in VAT and that part of the price hike. They haven't changed anything. But to those who have higher salaries, to us who have higher salaries, we have increased the cost and that is social, fair and fine, and that is why we are Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41230	The replica matches the esteemed colleague Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41231	Look, colleague Jelusic, you or the government, led by the Social Democratic Party, has had all the instruments of economic policy for a year and a half. Therefore, I want you to use these instruments of economic policy in a way that annual growth rates are 5 percent and more. No one's trying to stop you. The only small problem is that you use economic policy instruments in a way that the economy is constantly down and you can't see the end. As for higher or lower salaries and who's carrying the VAT. You must know that the mark of VAT is such that all that you have put at a lower rate than that, the benefits of it are also enjoyed by those who are poor, but also by those who have the highest wages. 'Cause that's what people have to pay for not looking at the store. Therefore, I still want you to use the instruments of economic policy to come up with at least two consecutive quarter growth, and all that is happening in this assembly and all this debate that has been going on for a year and a half days you've been telling you you're not doing well, you're not managing those instruments well, and the result is a continuous minus.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41232	Now we're going to hear the replica of a respected colleague of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Dalic, I'm only going to look back on that part of your exposure where you mentioned the media. Something about it was said by counterpart Vuksic. So, we also discussed this on the Parliamentary Media Committee, asking in fact not to question the decision to reduce one of the publishers or to have a preferential VAT rate. However, we have problemed at this point with another fact, which is that there are local weeks in Croatia that operate in accordance with the Media Law, which according to the Media Act are the only ones reporting on what is happening at the local level while the national media very rarely do so. I can take an example of the third constituency, such as Varazdin, Međimurje, if you want Krapina-Zagorian County, so why couldn't those publishers get a reduced VAT rate? I will remind you equally that these publishers who have already received this have already had a lower VAT rate and previous years, however they have not cheaped the paper, which is why they are no longer employed by journalists, which is why they did not get better working conditions. I'm also asking what's wrong with HINA? HINA gets 21 million kuna from the state budget, HINA has the highest VAT rate and we can only ask ourselves, so who's crazy? Why can the agency financed directly from the budget not enter the category of lower VAT rates? And I'm also asking what's with 150 radios and TV stations that get 0.3% from HRT's tax, so we're taxpayers? Why don't they get reduced and why not allow these people, and these are small entrepreneurs if you want, that they can function normally on the market? So these are issues asked by publishers, who cannot reach the public in any way and who rightly wonder if they are worth working in this country at all and are we going to have more unemployed journalists in Croatia besides 500 journalists? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41234	Let's hear the answers to these questions. Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41235	Well, the questions are a lot, the answers to all these questions can't be given. However, it is the one who regulates tax laws that should know that in the economy and in the economic area to which this tax law applies that there is a multitude among other things and such entities as you mention, there is a multitude that the tax collector cannot see at some point, know and recognize. But that's why he shouldn't even be burdened, that's not his job. Its job is to determine the fair, correct and effective conditions of taxation which will be applied equally to all those participants specifically in this case in the media area. When a tax collector does not do this, he tries to think that he is all-seeing, all-knowing and all-wise, then such anomalies are created as are currently in this bill. That's right, it's an experience of tax theory. Not because I would make it up or say it here right now, but it's one of the basic rules of how to conduct tax policy. Because the only thing that is certain in advance is that the tax collector cannot know all the details of economic life, and that it is almost certain that he will be wrong if he goes into such an administrative classification no matter how important it is to his ego and sense of importance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41236	We will now hear the replica of our colleague Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41237	Thank you very much. When talking about different tax treatment, colleagues Dalic must remember that the criterion is the most important factor in this different treatment, and the criterion must be based on general good and social usefulness. And when it comes to general good and social utility, then it's always more important than quantity. And here is the main criterion for the difference between tax burdens in the daily news of the quantity, the number of words written. It is actually unacceptable and there is a danger that from different tax treatment we will go into discrimination in a very easy way. However, it is not clear to me at all if the daily list is then the agenda should be the backbone of the difference between the monthbook and the weekly period, and within the daily list why it has not divided into the number of employees, to the level of the average salary, to the number of copies sold, and not to the number of words written. Who's that mind, I'd like to know, who invented that 25 thousand-word border and magic number? If this is about a younger person, I would suggest it immediately for a scientific recruit, and if it is a middle-aged person, I would suggest that he receive the prize immediately for a contribution to science, and if it is someone who is of a younger age, he really needs an award for life's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41238	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Martin Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41239	So here's one, you're right, colleague Maric, the question of criteria is, of course, an extremely important issue here. Now let's assume that this provision will be adopted as it is written, given that the promoter has a majority. Now, let's imagine how this life is going, what happens to that editor whose main function is now becoming a number of words in a specific daily edition. So he's no longer focused on his main goal of informing the public, God objectively, spreading information on the public interest or there are at least some things that I imagine should be the task of editor of the daily press, no, he's focused on counting words. Moreover, I suppose before that newspaper goes to the press this kind of electronic medium, some kind of CD, some e-mail travels to the IRS that also counts words because it's a big responsibility to the editor given that if the number of words fails, it's probably going to be at the 10% rate that day. Well, I don't see anything else if the law applies! It's pointless and ridiculous! But that's the logical consequence of this provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41240	And the last replica, Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41241	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So when some other colleagues spoke on behalf of the club, and they weren't so financially subdued, I didn't really want to take advantage of the line, but since Mrs. Dalic spoke on behalf of the HDZ club and most of the debates here and in these replicas were actually brought about by the VAT on the daily newspapers and those daily newspapers that have content unlike those they don't have. Just to say a few words, Mrs. Dalic and you are aware that this is a minor revenue for the state budget, so the highest income for value added tax is over 50 billion. This is about a couple of million, and that's if we were to talk in shifts, then we'd be talking about behind the decimal another two, three zeros, so how does it go on? In your debate, you argued that because of this release and that the SDP raised the VAT and that Mr Jelusic gave you a good answer, he raised the VAT so that he could please some entrepreneurs. It's simply not true, and let's break that thesis when it's obviously the public's best interest. So this is about a daily newspaper that publishes certain publishing houses but they also publish these other magazines, weekly journals, etc. One of them is issued by this other daily newspaper, which will be affected by this law and pay a tax of 10%. He'll be left with the same tax. This solution has been found and therefore the unfortunate situation for colleagues from the Ministry of Finance to practically defend the situation has been found in collaboration with the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Culture has proposed such a proposal, probably it can be operationally implemented and we'll see what it carries. I believe that you will agree with me that the state of information on daily newspapers and quality today is very, very bad and that this is an attempt to solve things. I'm saying by not guessing, guessing would be a whole other story about this non-payment of taxes on internal indifference that brought the country into this situation and why we're making it very difficult to get it out of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41242	And the last answer to Martin Dalic's last line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41243	Thank you very much. Well, I agree with you that here the point of this debate is not at all a financial effect. The financial impact is important, but we are discussing principles here, discussing criteria and ways in which value added tax can be applied. You raised the dam, if the media can be taxed by differences in words, forgive me why it would not be a different milk rate given the amount of fat in milk, which is more objectively determined than the number of words. It's absurd, but it opens up such questions and a series of others. And whether or not this suits me, I can say the following, when the tax rate for which the tax rate is reduced has a positive liquidity effect for him. Instead of the 10 million kuna that he may have needed in the period before that to meet the value added tax obligation, he will now need twice as much. So you wanted to or didn't want to put it one time, I agree, in a better business position than the other. However, whatever it is, it brings us back to that first debate on growth and the general economic situation, the media and the overall industry, as well as many others, are in a difficult situation because of the general economic situation. And their position will not improve until the economic situation is generally better, so people will be able to buy between themselves and more newspapers, etc. And that brings us back to the overall results in the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41244	Thank you very much. We are continuing to discuss the clubs, so I invite my esteemed colleague, Srdjan Gjurkovic, to introduce us to the position of the HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41245	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I, on behalf of the HNS Club, can say that we will support this Final Bill on Value Added Tax. And what really surprised me but pleasantly, is the debate on this second reading in which most of the debates so far refer to the treatment of press and media, or taxes related to press and media. Of course, on behalf of the club, I can say that certain remarks have the basis of the elements but that is why there are amendments in the second reading, and we have seen that after the first reading and amendments and proposals and observations have been adopted to a great extent as they are otherwise adopted in the term of office of this Government, as much as they say that some amendments or objections are not adopted in particular. And that means when only the remarks are the biggest about the press, which I said was open to debate and to have objections with the amendments as far as I know and my colleague Beus is doing something about this, but what is the essence of this law that this law is good. And I also agree that this law not only technically brings compliance with the acquis, or EU directives, but it does also open up the space we call and constantly talk about the competitiveness of our economy. Is that space enough? It is not and can never be enough because the competitiveness of the economy is something that is extremely dynamic and which is now competitive tomorrow is already not because, especially in the European market, the economy has its dynamics and other countries and countries are doing their own regulations to ensure their economy within the framework of the Directives, the possibility of being more competitive especially with exports. Given that tourism in Croatia is definitely exports and all services that are touristic, it is clear that this government has set criteria on this issue and when speaking both strategy and strategically refers to tourism to ensure its competitiveness on the European but also on the world market. And that's what's crucial to this law. Of course, just talking about the Value Added Tax Act, so then, I agree by discussing the very question when VAT is paid. Whether it is paid by an account issued, i.e. in a currency for 30 days or whether it is paid by an invoice is one question that we will probably solve at the time when we solve the liquidity in Croatia. That is why there is a Financial Business Act and a pre-demand settlement which is a prerequisite in fact that we would have a situation in which each account is paid neatly in currency for 30 days or maximum 60 days. And that's what we now like this coalition, this government transforms society, that is, the economy, that is, the part that is related to direct payments. And it doesn't go overnight. At this point, I also know that there are pre-fashion settlements under way, that tens of billions of what are state-owned, which are economic kunas in prolonging or write-off to save the economy, I stress saved the private sector. And that's what this government is doing for competitiveness, which is along with the proposal for a tax code on extra value, which I must say really again that I'm surprised that it's just about the press and the media that's being discussed. Because it basically shows that this law in these moments, in these conditions, is good. It can never be perfect and it won't be perfect because it can always be, but it's good that this isn't just technical harmonisation. And it should be reminded once again that in the taxpayer's register, we have also raised the entry into the threshold to 230 thousand kuna. And for all those when we talk about small entrepreneurs whose value of goods and services delivered, including VAT in the previous calendar year is less than 800,000 kuna, the accounting period from the first to the last day of the quarter. So the steps were made and significant in that segment. How much this government takes care of competitiveness, how much it takes to take care of the message and the economy and the insurance of the economy we have, the other day we read, what we have decided to introduce a 5% rate on sports vessels and entertainment that are placed in the customs procedure of free circulation until 31 May 2013 and which were previously under procedure... Imports have more than 4,000 vessels, some.... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Kuna in the budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what is crucial has provided for all those involved in this nautical tourism, for those vessels, for services, for all these services to get additional jobs, that new people can be employed. So these are important items not only of value added tax but of these tax policies that I once again stress it is good, it is not perfect, but in any case it works on fiscal consolidation and budget, orderly payment of commitments to the state. Let us not forget how many workers there were in crafts and entrepreneurs somewhere around 60 thousand, last year, who did not receive salaries or were not paid contributions there was no obligation. It's all part of the system, I'm not going to say value added tax but tax policy. We can discuss economic policy and economic theory and you know that science often loves and works on certain estimates of budgets, attempts and failures. Tax policy cannot be based on such things, it is done on simulations, experience and knowledge, and it has no possibility and has no or no way of trying and failing. She has, she has to have a strategy and a thought-out policy. This government is working strategically with sound policy and one of those laws is this value added tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41246	Thank you. So we're done discussing clubs, so we're moving on to an individual debate. First, a respected colleague, Josip Kregar, applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41247	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly not easy to be a tax collector in times of crisis when there is less and more and more to be taken to enable the functioning of the state and society. It's possible and you're doing it. Only if you have strong credibility and if you are consistent in your policy. VAT is a strong instrument of tax policy. The strongest of the taxpayers of all. It is also a strong instrument of economic and social policy. So the next debate that took place here, I actually want to remind you that it was used precisely to help those layers of society that have the least. So VAT on certain food products and the like is actually down to a minimum. A strong incentive for VAT to be one instrument of economic policy is, of course, the desire of many groups of interest groups in Croatia to apply exceptions to them. Therefore, any exception must be explicitly well-founded in order to maintain credibility and trust. I will, and also because the debate went on in this regard, only to remain on the issue of reducing the tax rate for the press. We've had the same case in the past a few years ago. With minimal negative or bad even effect. This time it seems to me that the situation is somewhat different and the effect will be better. Public information means the necessary component of democracy, and without it, it cannot be imagined. The incentive proposed here is the result of the general crisis that exists. The circulations are dropping, ratings are dropping, advertising revenues are dropping. Therefore, these activities are particularly endangered, and since they are important, since they need to express people's opinions, since people's opinions would be formed, since they would know what to decide, then I think that policy is to encourage good policy. I remember, of course, that a certain correction is achieved through other mechanisms, encouraging pluralism of opinion, so there is a special fund that encourages public information, but here in global I think that both the intention and the way it tries to implement it is beneficial and good. One criticism, however, has been expressed in this regard in the Assembly of several speakers. I think that we should consider amending Article 38(g) to me a formula that can be technically problematic in the implementation and can create a certain impression of media inequality on the media market. Counting words is not a good way because it can always be made up, otherwise censorship is if it is previous. And then the question arises whether we have an equality of business on the market, a request for constitutional and judicial protection and a similar one that is unpredictable according to its conventions. I'm going to make the amendment and I suggest that this criterion of counting the words be removed. But I would like to point out something that represents some progress in this article, expressed the desire of journalists, expressed the wish of those who may otherwise have no use for this concession or incentive, which is a formulation that says that the newspaper publisher must have the press statute. Such a provision exists in other laws, but so far there has been no mechanism for forcing publishers to do so. With this and this provision, we have an instrument that cites or suggests that they behave as the law requires of them. that they have media status. Allow a little pathetic, without media freedoms I said there is no democracy, but the question is not only democracy but also the unique unity of the status and treatment of presses on the market. The press is being sold, which is why we can't have different criteria. On the contrary, I agree with those who have said that they are no longer in the hall, that small, regional and local magazines should be encouraged. Indeed, because they not only represent some sort of guarantee that information will be exchanged locally but they represent some kind of school not only for journalists but also for citizens. Of course, the opposite can be said, for example. one serious objection would be the fact of unclear media ownership, especially at local level. A possible objection would also be that it makes no sense to lower VAT on those presses that actually concern or encourage hate, pornography or the like. However, it would not be good if we missed out on such objections or did not take into account the main intensity that the legislator has, which is to encourage a democratic debate in society, to give the media a certain tax security and a better position. Overall, it seems to me that governments, especially this government, have made good use of VAT as an opportunity to stimulate economic processes and protect standards and solidarity in society, protection of the weakest paid or at the incomes of the weakest social strata. That is why, with this amendment that I propose, I certainly think the law should be passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41248	Thank you very much. The Republic has Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41249	Dear colleague Kregar, I have submitted the same amendment to the articles you mentioned. I hope the legislator respects our suggestions. Most of the speakers who have spoken so far have advocated the same, so they are against different, unequal criteria. Counting words like you said is certainly not a good criterion and I say that is one form of attempt at censorship, in fact one form of trying to eliminate one newspaper, and we know that there is only one newspaper that is this guy, and now someone has said maybe it's not intentional, I think someone from your club said, is not intent because that publisher has another newspaper. That newspaper "24 Hours" is about, they have a higher story than all these newspapers when they add up together. Therefore, it is a clan battle over it. I agree completely, and I have given the amendment to cultural magazines and art must also be taxed at a rate of 5%. I think it's really incomprehensible why magazines for culture and art, they're fragile plants, we can be happy that they even exist and we have to give them the lowest rate to keep that little magazine left and so that little audiences can read what they're trying to do in their lives. The media statute. It is absolutely certain that media, or media employees, must have protection, and it can protect the statutes but should be given a period of 3 or 6 months in order for the statute to be drawn up and to protect employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41250	Replication response, Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41251	Dear colleague, since in most cases we agree to allow me to highlight some minor differences. First of all, it got a little bit in the eye to discuss one provision of an article, not the whole of the law. It is indeed a compliment to the promoter, in fact, that he made a good proposal, but that in some detail he failed to guess everything he could. In my presentation, I did not mention that provision, which stipulates that the minister will regulate the technical elements of the implementation by means of his rules. Very difficult. I think the meaning of the law will be achieved if the law does not define the criteria so that no matter what the operating act is, it could not replace them with the law in this regard. As for the statutes, journalists in their demands indicated that the statutes should have been passed, adopted long ago, so mentioning any deadline I think is already a little late. And this law forces all publishers to adopt the statutes in agreement with their employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41252	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41253	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Kregar, you said that without media freedom, there is, of course, no real democracy. I absolutely agree and you opened up, we don't have enough time in replicas right now, for this debate, you've opened up one very important, interesting but important and I would say when it comes to freedom of the media the issue of all issues, and that's media ownership. I believe you remember that as Prime Minister, I asked them to convene on this issue of ownership in the media session of the National Security Council. After that, nothing really happened. So, I have initiated to open a debate on the real ownership of Croatian media, of course based on some of the indications that I had. And it seems to me today that the issue of ownership of Croatian media is not very interested in anyone. We're discussing VAT here today. But I repeat the question of all questions when we talk about freedoms of journalists, editors, journalists first and foremost, then of course we need to know who owns it up to in detail every single media. And you have rightly established by remembering the reduction of VAT in some past times, too, above all, to the newspaper. The effect was, in fact, nothing. So neither is the reduced price of newspapers, and that should be the main intensity for people to buy newspapers, to read newspapers. Nor did any other shifts occur. So I appeal that one day we try to open this issue and this debate here in the Croatian Parliament who ultimately has every, even the smallest percentage in Croatian media and who actually in some way or in any way very often manages political processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41254	The answer to the replica Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41255	I thank you for allowing some questions to be pointed out again in the replica, and two of them are. First of all, it is, of course, about the budget quite a small amount to be measured by. But this is about jobs and the fates of people employed in newspapers. It wouldn't be good how it happened before that a measure like this actually comes about by increasing profits and firing journalists. That's something I think we're getting along with. We also agree in the fact that it is always important, that in fact the most important issue is ownership of the media. There are many ways to hide it in the present world and many ways to never really know who the one who has the crucial and decisive influence on the media is. However, one more thing your question opens, and that is that now more and more media ownership is in the hands of foreigners, in the hands of companies we don't know how and in whose interest they operate. That is why it is more important for the team to ensure the independence and objectivity of the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41256	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. It's time for my colleague Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41257	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So let's take the turn. Unfortunately, in the first quarter of 2013, we witness a 1.5% drop in economic growth. After that fall in the first quarter of 2013 was 1.3%. Unfortunately, I stress, unfortunately, that in 2013, the Croatian economy will not see growth, and that means that we cannot dream of a reduction or dream of a reduction in unemployment. Now that also means that Croatia, along with Greece, which is technically bankrupt, will be the only country that will not have economic growth in the EU for the fifth year in a row. They often ask me, I think we all need to ask ourselves, so why is that? Why is Croatia with Greece, I will not make comparisons at all because it cannot compare how much the Croatian position is incomparably better and safer than Greece can achieve economic growth. Well, personally, after two and a half years here, I have to tell you that I almost guarantee that the answer to this is very simple, which is that in fact the Croatian public administration at all levels is not an honest, open-minded supporter of the Croatian private sector. The Croatian public administration at all levels does not understand what economic growth depends on, so at the end of the day indirectly and wages in the public sector, and as long as it is not achieved at all levels of public administration, here I am not only talking about the government but primarily about the government because the government in centralised Croatia has the ultimate tools to support the private sector we will not be able to achieve economic growth except by momentum or, as the prime minister said not long ago, which is that we are actually dependent solely on the situation in the Italian economy. In the 21st century, we do not need and depend on the state of the Italian economy at the threshold of EU entry at all. Now, unfortunately, this support or not the support of the public administration goes to this level that Croatian entrepreneurs must address foreign ambassadors, in foreign markets, to get support for export jobs instead of speaking to Croatian ambassadors. I know very well and specifically there are Croatian ambassadors who speak openly, so it's not our job you're a private company. So whose private companies are trying to achieve new income on foreign markets and for the Croatian industry in the only way to ensure economic growth? I was lucky or honored in 2011 to participate in the Croatian government as Deputy Prime Minister, believe me, there was no meeting with any ambassador of any country of the world or any foreign government official, and that the topic was not concrete projects and concrete companies, of course private companies, from these countries. Now, back to VAT law. About a year or so, perhaps longer, there is a debate in the Croatian Parliament but also in the public on how the tax sector could actually be supported. We will all agree, I hope, that in the next 5 to 10 years, the dominant new employment in Croatia can therefore create a medium, small business sector of course and craftsmen. It takes a year for debates in this House and I participate most often in it, and that is why even small entrepreneurs as well as craftsmen would not pay VAT at charge? This is, in general, one of the tools for the state to support this weakest and most vulnerable part of the Croatian economy. However, if I read this law well in the end despite Mr. Maras's Minister of crafts and entrepreneurship saying late, we had a debate here last week about the Law on crafts, said that as well as craftsmen and small entrepreneurs would have the right to pay VAT at the expense, however, if I read this law well, it is not so. Since 1.01.2015, not that this will not happen, but also craftsmen will have to pay VAT immediately. Now, I'm not going to politicise here now, I didn't mention Mr. Maras for this, but because of the following facts, and these are facts: since 1.07.2013, the Croatian budget will be cancelled immediately on the customs of goods and the prerequisite for the famous tax on imports. Are we all aware that, in fact, under general insolvency terms, since 1.07., this will be an additional motive for buying products from imports because you will also VAT when importing from Austria or Germany will pay with a delay? If it is possible for the Croatian State, or the Government, or the Ministry of Finance to find money to bridge this, let's say a conditionally spoken hole in a few months, does this mean that the Croatian State and Government could and should have done so long ago, would it not have ensured the survival of jobs and preserved at least that part of small entrepreneurs in this way? Of course, it concerns both medium and large entrepreneurs, but we are talking first and foremost about those small ones in line with European directives. Are you aware that the pre-price settlement procedures especially for large companies in the construction sector are towing dozens and hundreds of small entrepreneurs and craftsmen not into pre-warrant deals but into bankruptcy, to close? So what I'm saying is, there's a tool. Every country, every government has a tax tool that can reduce that pressure. And when we talk in the HDZ about tax repression, we are not just talking about VAT heights, although this is a serious problem, the problem will be bigger when we enter the EU, and especially when people who are old computers and less traditional start ordering goods for delivery from EU countries where this VAT is much lower and where prices are much lower, and then, of course, our retailing will collapse further, and it will not grow. So that's what you need to worry about. But here I wanted first of all to warn that the government, each government, has the tools to support its own private sector, domestic entrepreneurs, first and foremost these small and entrepreneurs and craftsmen who are, on the one hand, the only guarantee of future new jobs to a significant extent and on the other hand are definitely after 5 years or 4.5 years of crisis the most vulnerable part of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41258	Next in an individual debate, colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41259	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, it's sad that we're already kind of used to this, like I'd say ass to beatings, so then we're not actually discussing what's in this bill, it's not a newspaper, but it's the worst, and that's the 25% VAT rate. Something a fellow Milosevic was talking about now. So we've actually focused on some provisions of the law that aren't so important, but they're being irritated by the way that some of our regulations are being laid down. The broader context was discussed by the esteemed representative Kregar, and he well stressed that this law can also be observed in the light of human freedoms, freedom of expression in the media, the presentation of our own views, the prevention of censorship, etc. and all somewhere with the aim of justifying the passing of a law like this. And that's why I disagree with his assessment that if this is the only objection that the law is actually very good. It is one complaint that is imposed in the decisions proposed by the Government, which seem to be exorcised, I would even say the solutions that have been introduced into this law by order. I'm sorry we don't have here, and it would also concern these 25% rates of what the government has in its services, as far as I know, within the framework of the Legislative Office, there is a service that deals with the impact assessment of the regulations. So it would be very interesting to see that someone has made one elaborate on what effect this law will continue to have on many branches in society and on the activities that we have not mentioned on this occasion in the debate on this law. But what is interesting is what has been apostrophe here in several statements, and these are the VAT rates that are mentioned in Article 38.zacon and in which we have seen that there is something which is probably constitutionally questionable about protecting the competition of all those on the market, as well as the equality of all before the law which seems to me to be this way and this solution has been questioned. I'll remind you that this government was the only daily paper that had its own property actually shut down because it was non-commercial and according to what was then in the public opinion it produced losses for which the government did not want to answer. And at the same time, some palitative measures are being taken by the government to protect everyone else, but not all other media in the same way. So I can't simply resist the need to read again that "the value added tax rate of 5% applies to the newspaper, the newspaper publisher who has the status of the media printed on paper that comes out daily and as a general information paper, publishes journalistic, authoric texts in the range of at least 25 thousand words in a copy of the daily edition except for those which, in whole or in part, contain ads or serve advertising". Some colleagues have already talked about the fantastic creation of this norm, but I'm asking here a question then to the proposer. If the word counting norm is what will indicate whether you will pay a tax at a rate of 5 or 25% why you did not take the same principle for books, so that, say, books up to 100 pages are taxed at a rate of 25%, and those who exceed 100 pages have a more favourable tax rate. It shows you how pointless this criterion is. What is even more pointless is what is on behalf of the motionors on the working bodies of the Assembly, and they have been transferred from, say, the Committee on Economic Affairs or the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the reasons of the Ministry of Finance that these conditions, or the criteria in which the tax class falls for this rate, will be taken care of or checked by the number of words of the Tax Administration. This is an additional senseless interpretation of this provision that the Tax Administration that has a whole series of other activities and competences will still employ people to daily count words in daily newspapers to determine what tax rate they should apply to which daily list. But when you're talking about the protection of freedom and public information, then we suggest that when there are already benefits in taxing these products, they are worth everything. Not only for daily newspapers more than 25 thousand words and author's articles as they have already listed you, but also for electronic media, given the modern society we are in. Why is it out of the reach of this privilege, for example, except that they already spoke earlier in the local papers, why you threw out all the electronic media that are also working for you as a daily service. I'm not talking about the names of all these portals here again, but you have a whole series of portals that publish the news daily, also publish the opinions of journalists who used to work in the printed media that you say are being published on paper, and now those who are de facto competition with daily newspapers are being placed in a much more unfavourable position than these journalists and newspapers that are being published in paper form. So if there is already a need for public service, in some ways by referring to the public in everything that can be learned through the daily press, leave the possibility and competition in electronic media to be treated in the same way. On the other hand, the only thing that points out to us is that what was already said in earlier discussions was a standard ordered only for some publishers so that only some of them would benefit from a special privilege so who paid a 5% tax which is even lower than you prescribed for children's food and processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children. So if we look at some general social benefit, I believe that, in any case, children's food should be taxed at a lower rate than the daily newspaper, as you suggested. I believe that no one who seriously follows legislative activity and reads your proposals can believe in the good intention of proposing such a standard, and then my suggestion is that it is best to drop and make such a norm equal for all those on it or competing on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41260	Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41261	The Honorable colleague of the Mlakar, someone before you said that we were actually talking about only one article, which means that the law is good. It's not that, it's just that this is so puzzling and so amazing and so amazing and it's suddenly jumped into the law between the two readings, and no one's discussed it in public, so it wasn't in public debate imposed as one of the options of solving any of the problems that actually surprise me that it's not discussed anymore. However, I was surprised that what you said and what you said, no one in the government said a single sentence except for one excuse that you, the publisher who has the newspaper below, who has under 25 thousand copyrights, and believe me as a journalist, cannot know everything that is in the author's word as well as the legislator does not know what is in that author's word. I'd love to count it. Whether to include a news society that will also count words. What I said before is who you'll complain to if they count that you have one less word and you claim to have one more word. I mean, the story is so big, we really need to talk about it. And she actually overcame all the other solutions, some that are good in law, some that are less good. It should be asked at this point whether they are taxing and how much they tax the entire books they throw into our mailboxes. It's those commercials. Who, hundreds of tons of paper is being thrown. Who's taking care of that? First of all, we've been violated, consumer rights have been violated by that. So you do it every day. Is that what the state is talking about? No, I don't. But it bothers her to look like a list of journals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41262	The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41263	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, so you're absolutely right, which is why I was saying this is what I was trying to do, and I was trying to be gentle in the evaluation, ordered a provision in law. Because it is simply incomprehensible that someone can take his right, put into law such a provision that instead of the name or last name or company that he refers to, there is one criterion that is clear to everyone and we avoid talking all the time and to whom it goes in favor and why. However, this is actually proof of what some have been saying about the influence of the media, but of course only some, what is the issue of ownership over some of the media that has not been considered here. I was talking about the fact that even the only daily newspaper owned by the state no longer exists. But that's why we favor everyone, or some of the others, and at the same time we want to bury their competition. That's why I was saying that the principle of equality of the competition was violated. That the constitutional principle of equality before the law has been violated is because, in particular, it is a pointless provision that the tax administration will count how we got the interpretation daily, because it is a daily newspaper of all articles that look like they can reach 25,000 words in order to classify you under a certain tax rate. And instead, it might have been really smarter for the motionor to write the name of the company that this law is written for so that we can get rid of these dilemmas that we're putting before us like this. Because it seems to me that despite all our efforts, I don't think this is such a stupid provision that I should erase it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41264	We're moving on to the final word of the clubs. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41265	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, the rare ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and the representatives here at the Assembly of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished deputy with the associate. So I'm going to start this final word right now with one question, is that in those 25 thousand words to certain daily papers that this law is written for, and since the nominant is a sant odya, it's 24 hours, that's what we say right now, I hope it won't be understood as an ad, but is it in those 25 thousand words, is there also those unfulfilled puzzles that fill out the citizens themselves, since those words are not written in the daily newspapers themselves, but are citizens filling in. So I believe that those who count this in the IRS will have one big problem, that is, a black hole not in the universe, but in the law itself. It is also a question of local media that exists and local media that do not have that much over 25 thousand. And this law will lead to the shutting down of those media that were perhaps the only way to say so in the local environment. But also electronic, electronic media. From the radio, from the television. But I don't mean TV where it is the other day, and congratulating the election, because that's how the citizens of Osijek decided first and foremost, where here on Sundays at 2 mayor thanks Osijek television, thanks to journalists, Drago Hedl, Mati Radeljić, who is director of Osijek TV, thanks to Sarkanjc, etc... So there's also the question of the independence of this kind of media, and above all, the way that television came from some of the black funds. Not from the holes, but from the black funds. So here's one question addressed to the ministry itself. And here's personally looking at yesterday and Mr. Lalovec's statement that certain things that are related to the standard of life of citizens with this final bill of value added tax, although I don't believe this is the final bill of law but these are these, this is a series of amendments and additions to the law on value added tax. That in a certain way it will try to make up for some other things. However, given all that is happening in the Republic of Croatia, the situation has obviously matured since the return of gross national income these 6 months or in the first quarter, since the fall of economic activity in the Republic of Croatia, and it is obvious that this has nothing to do with either the world or the European crisis, but primarily has to do with the deep Croatian crisis, the crisis of the Croatian economy, but also the way of management above all. The proposal is to give first and foremost good consideration to the fact that we have examples, not in the European Union, but also examples of how some like to show it in the region or region that many countries share exactly VAT and that only this VAT, which is the basic problem and development of Croatia, since it is a highly centralised state, that by summer after swimming in the Adriatic Sea or some other tourist destinations, we finally realize that the increase in VAT from 23% to 25% did not trigger the economy, and that total tax revenues cannot be exclusively on the account of the state in the state budget, but that definitely these tax revenues must be shared in view of the entry into the European Union in order not to destroy what is the wealth of Croatia, which is local and regional self-government. I hope, I'm finishing up, I hope you know that out of 100 kuna of some tax revenues 97 goes into the state budget, and 3 kunas go towards the local and regional self-government unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41266	Thank you. Replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41267	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Vinkovic, you asked in your debate whether it belonged to the 25,000 words prescribed by this law to determine what daily newspapers are, and which is not taxed with a 5% cross-section rate. Whether it includes unfulfilled words, so let's say that it can be vertical who ordered the provision of Milanovic, let's say that's one word with multiple letters, horizontally to which Pavic is favored and so on. It could be appreciated if we go to some of the criteria that you and I are going to set, but if the Ministry of Finance is going to determine then maybe there are other criteria, maybe those empty houses aren't counting, so... we readers meet them. And there's another provision that's not out of line in this law, which is a provision to exclude public radio and television from VAT, so it writes the decimal except for commercial ones. Well, public television knows what public television is, I don't need it, except commercially, I think it's really unnecessary to interpret this. There is only one public television and one public radio and precisely the law defines commercial television, national and regional not public television. Legally, they're not according to it. I think it's too much than commercial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41268	Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41269	So I've really asked the question that I'm asking first of all, and the Ministry, therefore, in certain papers, you have because some simply in their praises, and it's not just the fact of this time, it's been before, so during and since '45. and beyond or from 918 and beyond. Some have 20 puzzles, you have those big canadinas or I don't know what it is, so it's a simple question whether it's the interaction of Croatian citizens who pay VAT the largest in Europe of 25%. In this way, the increase in VAT has also led to a decline in economic activity. We should have learned from the Federal Republic of Germany where it reduced VAT, increased economic activity, increased consumption, achieved practical and development of the economy itself, while here it is quite the opposite. It also says so in some of the basics of the economy. And as for public television, so I think that in Croatia at the moment and we don't have public television, but we have television based on all the laws that most of this House has passed, we have, above all, television that protects the government, only a problem in four years when this same television is protected by similar laws by some other power. Then it will be clear to those who have passed such laws what they have done to public television that should have been the service of all citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41270	On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41271	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Deputy associate, colleague and colleague. So finally on behalf of the HNS Club, I have already said, of course, that we support this VAT bill proposal, that it is not absolutely of course perfect, but at this point it is appropriate not only for the sake of harmonisation but also for some provisions of reduced taxes that ensure the competitiveness of the economy. When it came to introducing 25%, or 2% higher tax than it was before, and it was 23, then there was a lot of criticism in the debate on non-release in certain segments, or social activities. Today in this final proposal, with that first reading and the final proposal which adopted the proposals and remarks for certain reduction activities, I must say again unfortunately, the debate was only on the media, although the media has a reduction in itself, given the 25% input VAT, part of the lower entry costs, or certain obligations, better liquidity and the possibility of survival on the market. I'm not going to go into the debate anymore, of course, about 25,000 words or more because there's been too much of it, so I have these amendments. If they're justified, I have no doubt they'll be adopted. But what I want to say on behalf of the HNS Club is that what is important for the economy, what is important for the citizens, is that these changes and laws ensure a more quality development of the economy, that all these reduced, reduced rates that exist ensure a more quality and survival especially in the tourism activity, and that I wanted to stress in the name of the club that we are absolutely satisfied that there are also adopted remarks on those shipowners or in that part of nautical tourism that is doing one-day trips because we have a clear interpretation that all those who have registered catering activities have the approval to work on board can also have a service in which the VAT price is as part of the total price of 10% while, of course, kept for the transport of goods and services 25% because only then would have an unfair match situation on our market. But this segment that definitely also provides one-day trips that can't be read clearly, but is only interpreted in this law as what the Government or Director of the IRS has made clear to us on the board. And it is important to the Committee on Tourism, so one day trips have 10% service for food and drink catering services while this part remains separate for the transport of goods and services, or people. Therefore, it is also crucial in competitiveness. Because at this point, our most promising activity is tourism, and it is important that we are both competitive and accessible and quality in this segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41272	Replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41273	Dear fellow Gjurkovic, and this is not about counting words, it is about amendments to that, but it is about being an integral part of the law. And then from the promoters comes the answer that someone from the Tax Administration will daily, and Croatia has no idea how much, the Republic of Croatia does not know how much press. Then I ask myself if this is about some new employment in the IRS which will be the official counters of what is listed in the daily newspaper. So whether to count from word to word or be experts in assessing the size of newspapers, format newspapers, etc. But aside and that. But the fact is that we definitely need to make a systematic change to the VAT Act, to the value added tax, and to realize that this country can no longer go through centralised, that almost all units of local and regional self-government were brought before me would not say bankruptcy, but rather the inability to function. Given that this tax system, tax laws of some 100 kuna, which is collected in the unit of local self-government, 97 kuna goes into the state budget, 3 kunas go towards local and regional self-government and there is a complete inability to finance any kind of project, the inability to enter EU pre-accession funds because you simply do not have the means to do so. 2 kunas remain for you, 1 kuna goes to the county and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41274	Reply to the replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41275	My dear colleague, of course I agree with you in part, especially in that segment of decentralisation. But all of us together believe that we are aware that neither the state administration, regional or local self-government can function without the development of the economy and that this is essentially the cornerstone of development and local self-government and the whole of Croatia. Therefore, whether the state will leave part of the funds but also decentralisation responsibilities towards local self-government, if the economy is not of a quality which absolutely works to open these investment processes, new employment and the creation of added value. So, from a small cookie and additional responsibilities that you would have in local self-government to perform certain functions, no one would benefit much more than greater obligations. Because when it's a little cake, when it's small amounts, then you definitely can't solve what you want, or we all want it in local self-government. The main thing is, therefore, that decentralisation of funds alone is without responsibility is not certainly the policy of this government and that decentralisation will be both assets and responsibilities, and this government has the responsibility and aim to raise the economy so that those funds for the responsibility that local self-government should take are sufficient to function normally, not to knock on the doors of the government or the state budget again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41276	The final word of the applicant. Deputy Finance Minister Mr. Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41277	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I just want to thank you for the debate and we'll talk to the Ministry of Culture who proposed this formulation, so the government will show itself to your amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41278	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. Final proposal of the Value Added Tax Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 312. The debate on the text of the law is over. Your amendments are divided into a special table. I ask Finance Minister Slavko Linic to plead with me on the amendments. Amendment number 1 of the HNS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41280	The Government does not accept the proposal for an amendment of the HNS Club to Article 38. An explanation, in the first indent, is proposed to add behind words in all physical forms as well as books in any other medium. Since this is contrary to the Council of Europe Directive 2006 it is not possible to install into our law. The second indent is to include the words of tickets to concerts, concerts, theatres, museums, exhibitions and other cultural events. The explanation is this, all tickets the government placed at 10%. The question remains why are the cinema tickets at 5%? The Croatian signatories of the WTO Agreement. One of the provisions of the WTO is that zero rate tickets are counted on cinema tickets in all signatories of the Agreement. Given such an agreement, and we don't have a zero rate, that's why we left the movie tickets at 5%. But we don't think any other tickets should be sent down to that lowest rate we call a social category. So that's why the government doesn't accept the second indent. In the third indent behind the word magazines add a new lining that speaks CD, DVD, sound carriers, classical, jazz, fun, pop, rock and ethnic music. The government also does not accept this proposal for the reason why we believe that this has been resolved by interrelationship, and on the other hand, anything related to culture is possible through the Culture Ministry programmes to obtain subsidies from individual programmes, not all activities. And that is why we believe that although culture should not go to the lowest rate that means certain subsidies, it will be done through the Culture Ministry programmes. And for the fourth indent, it is said to add a new basis for the delivery of goods and services to independent artists and composers, we also believe that we cannot accept, in fact the delivery of goods is only the fourth subparagraph because it is contrary to the Council of Europe Directive 2006 and it is impossible to accept it. And as for the fifth indent, which speaks of a 320 limit to everything except the author's fees, artists, independent artists, etc. The government does not accept for reasons why we believe they should share the same fate as other independent craftsmen. And that's why the government can't accept the proposed amendment of the HNS Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41281	On behalf of the promoter Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41282	We thank you for your explanation. We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41283	Amendment number 1 of the HNS Representatives Club has been withdrawn. Amendment number 2 of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41284	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy The proposal is not accepted by the Government. An explanation why we don't accept the HDZ Club proposal. We believe that newspaper publishers and magazines are among 10%, and that this is a great support essentially when we look at this activity. The government of the Republic of Croatia in determining this proposal was faced with a major crisis of publishers in part of the daily newspaper. In view of this major crisis, the government has estimated that even the lowest so-called ‘less’ can be used. Come on, for the government a social rate of 5% to help publishers in the issue of daily newspapers. But the government also believes that we must have a certain economic logic at the moment. For us it was economic logic that the daily paper was a huge job, that it was something that required huge costs and threatened the results of the publisher's business and then tried to say which newspapers they were. This is the formulation the government has proposed for the reason it believes that this formula means the amount of costs. Because this level of publishing costs for daily papers is really the size of the editorials, newspapers, correspondents, texts, quantities of texts, which means the cost of daily newspapers. And she tried to find a logic there why she proposed such a text and that only the team was going that lowest rate of 5% in support at the moment given the huge financial problems with the publisher. It's a formulation that the government has proposed, and so just to say that it's important that the daily newspapers that are here turn to how many ads there are or not ads, we don't think it would be logical. And it is evident that the price of daily newspapers is something that the government is very interested in, because if the government did not go with such solutions, then it is possible to grow the price. Therefore, we know that we also have different prices, business logs, etc. who simply have their own economic price and sure that through that price we should try to find the means for successful business. We estimate that the government's formulation is clearer, to be very clear, is not an important income, it is important that it is a battle for the economic position of the daily newspaper publishers and that in this part we only want to help those who have great costs for the quality of the daily press.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41285	On behalf of the promoter, Martina Dalic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41286	Dear Minister, we are not satisfied with your explanation because it is essentially as illogical as this proposal is illogical. In addition to proposing now that value added tax is applied depending on the number of words, you have now stated in your explanation that you are actually proposing a difference in cost-adjustment rate, so you and I both know how the costs are controlled and that you are just one of the biggest cost-control advocates. I don't think it really has anything to do with this argument you've given with the real reasons for this proposal. This proposal based on the number of words is a proposal that clearly wants to benefit one part of the daily newspaper and to the detriment of some other daily newspapers. Moreover, your reasoning is not logical and because there are local newspapers that don't come out daily that are extremely important to be newspapers, which is probably public information. Our amendment corrects another anomaly of this article, which is that scientific journals are at a rate of 5% and magazines for culture and art at a rate of 10%. Well, you're not going to say that magazines for culture and art are more profitable and cost less than scientific magazines. So I don't think that this argument of yours has anything to do with the fundamental goal that was being declared, which is that publishing, media, public word, is being put into a more favourable treatment. This is not done in this way. So please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41287	Who is for the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 3 of Representative Joseph Kregar has been withdrawn. Amendment number 4 of Representative Branko Vuksic to Article 38(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41288	The government does not accept the amendment, and a complete explanation of why we do not accept it was given earlier with the HDZ amendment. Therefore, we estimate that the 5% rate we have proposed to have publishers for the daily newspaper is given first of all to ensure a more successful battle of publishers for the economic position. And that's why we're assessing that with the government's proposed criteria, we can get better quality results about who has the cost of daily newspapers. We estimate to help through 5% of all the others who issue daily newspapers and do not have the costs of a large number of journalists or a strong editorial, nor would I say equipment, and that we do not talk about the texts that should be, which we have tried to define here through the number of words, does not mean then simply investing in daily newspapers, and that is why the Government cannot accept this text.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41289	Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41290	Dear Minister Linic, we think that the wording criterion is a discriminatory criterion. First of all, if you honestly thought that this was the right criterion then you would have made an analysis of the costs because you had said not just a word but a cost. We'd run a text analysis, run an analysis of the composition of the editorial. That's not there, because I'm guessing no one who suggested that provision discriminationting 25,000 words doesn't know how to operate for 24 hours. I think it's the fight of one news clan against another and that it actually wants to please these others. After all, at a cabinet meeting yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister said that the solution is not perfect, but it's reasonable. And why is it reasonable, because this is what the government encourages writing. It's really ironic, the peak of irony. First of all, we are also, in this amendment I suggested that the rate be reduced to 5% of the journals for culture and art because they are the most endangered. So, they actually have to exhale, they need the most help. The second thing is very important in informing and performing public functions for local weeks which have a very important function in local communities. That's why we asked that both the local weeks and all the weeks also printed have the same treatment as the daily newspaper. This way, I think you're going to make some daily newspapers shut down, that you're not going to save, that people are going to be out of work and there's going to be less inflows in the state register than it is now. There's one thing that's not good. Please let us be clear about this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41291	Who's for amendment number four the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to Amendment number 5 of MPs Branko Vuksic also to Article 38(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41292	It is said that it is also proposed that magazines for culture and art be classified at this rate of 5%. I have already made it very clear before with the amendment of the HNS Club that we are assessing that even the 10% rate is interrelationships. This is the usual regulatory rate is the rate at which magazines can be for culture and art, and some magazines have according to certain projects the support of the Ministry of Culture and are monitored in that part and we believe that the 10% rate is quite enough and we do not think that there should be a special support of 5%. So 5% is not common, we've given it extremely, and we're trying to set the criteria for what. Everything else is at a 10% interconnection. I still don't have a comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41293	A colleague, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41294	So by the way, the state co-finances magazines for culture, art, science, and I think it's illogical that it doesn't bring down that VAT rate when it's already dropping the VAT rate on daily newspapers that are much easier to operate on the market than magazines for culture and art. It is particularly worrying that yesterday's distinguished Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic said at the cabinet's session, and it says if we are exposed to pressures, we will have to give up. It's pure racketeering, it's the pressure of an unprecedented political on freedom of speech, on freedom of expression, on freedom of suggestion here in the Croatian Parliament, so we're the accused parliamentary representatives that we belong to powerful media clans, which if the gene of writing in the daily newspaper we're talking about is then we see that actually the newspaper that promotes precisely the grand successes of the government will profit from this, and those newspapers that are critical of the government and the newspapers are penalized by the failure of VAT to 5%. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41295	Who is the number-five amendment of MP Branko Vuksic whom the government does not accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 6 of the IDS Representatives Club and of the Independent Representative Furi Radin to Article 39(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41296	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. The IDS amendment proposed that an attempt be made to insert national and international scientific and technological projects, which are otherwise financed from the state budget, the European Union budget, international legal entities and also the scientific and research activity which is closely linked to it. The reason why we cannot accept the proposal is that the release from the payment of VAT to national and international scientific and technological projects financed from the national budget of the European Union and other international legal entities, as well as for the scientific and research activities and closely related supply of services and goods to science carried out by scientific institutions and other legal persons in science is not prescribed by Council Directive 2006 and this is the reason why this proposal cannot be classified.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41297	On behalf of the promoter, Walter Boluncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41298	Therefore, this proposal requires that equipment to be purchased, scientific equipment through scientific projects obtained by either the Ministry of Science or the European Union not to be paid VAT. This is the situation now, however, only for our projects was the return of VAT which was to be agreed by the ministry of one and the other and by a specific order. And European projects, for example, like Tempus, you couldn't buy equipment if you didn't get a tax administration certificate first that VAT won't be paid. There are a whole series of memos from scientific institutes and other institutions that will suddenly have to pay 25% more equipment, and since scientific projects have otherwise listed the amount that can be spent on equipment, that means that this money that is not paid for VAT will be spent on equipment, not on something else. I think it's one big step back because we're talking about budget rebalancing and budgeting how science and education can help us, and now we're suddenly putting 25% on science projects. I say, our projects from our ministry that are basically state-paying, and the EU issue is, now we're going to enter, so there may be a second situation, but European projects won't be able to buy equipment unless it's obtained that VAT is not paid. That's quite contradictory. So, and it seems to me that it should have kept the situation as it has been worth so far that the scientific equipment purchased from scientific projects does not pay VAT. We can't talk about science and education being able to help us, and on the other hand, we put a 25% VAT on equipment that is essential for work. At the end of the year, the ministry receives a report on the project. You can see what equipment was purchased, which is what this equipment is used for. Also, the scientific services that are provided I think that the introduction of VAT which happened two years ago is quite burdensome because for all scientific projects that work towards third parties in principle every university, the Institute has a provision of which a certain part, the amount of money should already be allocated in the beginning for needs, the work of the institution. It's directly in conflict with attitudes about the need for science. I'm asking for a vote on this, and if it's someone for science that's going to get us out, I think it's going to be for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41299	Thank you. Who's in? The Minister can't do it. [[Intruding Linic: With one note, he does not accept the directive]] Who's for an amendment to the IDS Representatives Club that the government doesn't accept? [[/Intruder Linic: And this law is in line with the directive. So, so much.]] He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 7. HNS Representatives' Club on Article 44?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41300	The amendment of the HNS Club relating to imports of recorded carriers, data, drilling cards, sound recordings, microfilms, transfer of information and everything else, import of collectors' items, imports of equipment and re-romatures that are used to perform cultural and artistic, museum and archival, restoration and archaeological, ethnological, library, art, music, film activities which are not produced in Croatia The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. It is also a very clear argument that the provisions of Article 44. The final proposal for a law on value added tax is fully in line with Council Directive 2006 which also does not allow for the exemption on imports for the proposals submitted by the HNS club cannot be incorporated into those proposals in Article 44.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41301	A colleague of Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41302	Thank you for the explanation. We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41303	Amendment number seven of the HNS MPs' clubs has been withdrawn. Amendment number eight of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41304	It's on Article 90. It's a question of the definition of a small entrepreneur. In Article 90 behind the words "230000 is deleted, and an independent artist with a residence abroad is added." The Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot accept this amendment on the grounds that the provisions of Council Directive 2006 did not provide for exemptions from the application of the threshold and for registration in the register of value added tax taxpayers. Therefore, it can only be on the threshold, not on activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41305	Goran Beus Richembergh, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41306	We thank you for your explanation and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41307	The amendment of the HNS Representatives' Club number eight has been withdrawn. Amendment number nine of the HDZ Representatives Clubs to Article 139.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41308	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the proposal of the Club of Representatives regarding Article 139 and for reasons we do not accept nor, I apologize. This is the club, so in Article 139 of the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club, that the income tax payer with the total turnover in the previous year is less than 3 and a half million kuna which will pay VAT per paid realisation. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the proposed amendment because the majority, which is more than 80% of taxpayers, is an annual turnover of 3 and a half million kuna, which means that the exemption or transfer to charge would be transferred to more than 80% of taxpayers. Besides that it would mean a certain problem in charge, but for the IRS is the biggest problem of supervision. At this point, the tax administration is changing and trying to focus tax supervision on large companies and to reduce tax supervision on business operators and have less traffic. With this principle to free them of VAT payments until payment, we would have to cross over and re-enhancing the supervision of small bonds, and we see that 80, for reasons of pre-taxes and correctness in paying taxes, and the possibility to reject pre-taxes even though they were not paid. That's why the government proposes not to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41309	A colleague of Martin Dalic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41310	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Ministers 3 are, in fact, the reasons why this amendment has been proposed. Because it is one of the provisions and possibilities that are not contrary to the directives. You've turned down quite a number of amendments because they're against the directives, this isn't. The second reason is that paying the value added tax per paid realisation does not mean not paying the value added tax. Since the Ministry of Finance has spent a lot of energy explaining and interpreting the results in charge, in monitoring and improving in general all segments of the IRS I believe that these are your successes which are the very reason for this provision for small entrepreneurs to be introduced. The $3.5 million limit is the one prescribed by the directive as the highest limit. There is therefore also freedom in determining and some other limits if there are some objective reasons that 3.5 million kunas cannot be implemented. However, the purpose of this amendment is to protect and provide the possibility of protecting small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who can find themselves on the market in an unfavourable position simply because they are small, and in the light of some previous amendments, you have pointed out that market position as something that the Ministry of Finance is particularly concerned about. I therefore think that these arguments that you have given are not valid and that this possibility should also be allowed in Croatian legislation, given that this is a possibility for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs of other Member States, whose market Croatia will join in a few days. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41311	Who is for the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club No. The 9th government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. Ten. Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41312	We do not accept the proposed amendment to Article 139(4) for reasons related to Article 142a, and the Government does not accept it either.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41313	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41314	The intention was to non-technically comply with Article 143, but we will now see what the Proposer will say in relation to the third amendment. The amendment is withdrawing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41315	Amendment No. 10th has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 11. The Committee on Legislatives on Article 142, or 142a, respectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41316	It is not technical differences where Article 142a is proposed that the provisions of Article 139 cease to apply on 31 December and the provisions of Article 135 of this Act on 1 January. Our opinion is that we should not accept this amendment for the reason that then the question remains what is December 31st? Because if the law ceases to apply on December 31st, then the question is whether December 31st should be paid or not to pay VAT? Our opinion is that our proposal is better quality and clearer. And that's why we refuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41317	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41318	The purpose of these amendments was to no longer determine any of these provisions after the provisions of the entry into force, so it may have caused this suspicion to the applicants and therefore I am withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41319	Amendment No. 11. The Legislative Committee has been withdrawn. And the 12th amendment of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41320	Also, given such nomotechnical differences and if ours were now accepted, we suggest that the amendment to Article 143 be rejected so that there are no ambiguities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41321	Amendment No. 12 is withdrawn. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? A colleague named Ivan Shuker, in the name of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41322	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Since the Honorable Minister has not accepted the HDZ amendment, I, on behalf of the club, ask a 10-minute break to agree on how we will vote on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41323	I'm setting a break until 11.02 p.m. It's 10.47 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41324	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.56 HOURS]] Dear Representative Ivan Shuker, please welcome on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41325	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So the HDZ Club asked for this break for the simple reason that we feel that we have both a moral and political right to this amendment that we have submitted because the HDZ government in the moments when the media first found themselves in the crisis has reduced the VAT rate from 22% to 10%. But then we didn't do immeasurable criteria, then we didn't share the media into similar and unspeakable ones. Honestly speaking to us at the HDZ Club is not clear why this provision of 25 thousand words because I think that with this provision of 25 thousand words the minister will have to write a special rule about how who, when and in what way will count those words and what will happen if, for example, someone happens to have 24 thousand 985 words that fit the law, and those 15 words do not fit the law and whether that number if his daily circulation of 150 thousand that day is calculated by VAT rate 5 or 10%. So we put ourselves in a position where we explain that we cannot introduce a provision that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs pay VAT according to the paid realisation of up to 3.5 million kuna of total income by justifying that this would increase the burden on the IRS, and the question is who will measure these 25 thousand words? Will it measure the Tax Administration, will measure it by the Ministry of Culture, we want to install at every sales place counters, so we will find on-call citizens who will count words and observe maybe seek a referendum that that number doesn't have so many words? So one provision that may even be contrary to EU directives. And what I understand, Mr. Minister, is I fully agree with you that you said the economic reasons are for this proposal that you made. The economic reason was with that first proposal when the rate fell from 22 to 10%. But colleagues and colleagues, if they were to recalculate the amount of fiscal loss that doesn't fit these 25,000 words, then it's far less than the damage this bill will make. This is definitely us in Croatia, unfortunately we have introduced in some old tradition similar to and unspeakable media. Apparently, those who dared to write a little critical writing were burned in these inappropriate ones and punished in this way, and others who write as they should, even though both are in a very difficult situation. But I think that, as representatives, one category of media should be very important, and that's the local media. Local media is far more important to citizens than these media at the state level. Why? Because this news you have on the state-level media can also be heard on television and read on various portals, etc. However, local media dealing exclusively with local problems and what our citizens have every day no one mentions anywhere as if they don't exist. Maybe if there was more talk in the debate about local media, maybe they'd understand. So we don't understand why we're introducing this immeasurable and discriminatory decision. And the other thing when we talk about this honestly, I was surprised by the Prime Minister's statement yesterday. Well, at least someone could have told him to read on page 115 of the VAT Act, where he said, "applications and suggestions from HDZ representatives Ivan Shuker, Željko Reiner, and representatives of the HSS Club Branko Hrg concerning the introduction of a reduced rate of 10% to fresh meat and certain foods that are healthy therefore contain less salt and food is not accepted." So this is a confirmation of the Ministry of Finance itself and the document that Zoran Milanovic sent to this House and signed that he does not write what he writes here. It is clear here that we in their HDZ club, looking at a difficult standard of living, low income for Croatian citizens, have proposed that certain food products be taxed at a differentiated rate. It's the best proof that those who propose these laws simply don't know what they're doing. And finally, why is this provision of 3.5 million total turnover to be paid according to the paid realisation? For the simple reason that if we have on one side of the praises that it's a great charge that it's the order that's been introduced that's been a mess before, then what's the problem if the realisation is charged if everything's great if they charge everything in time? Well, then it would be a logical conclusion from all that together if it didn't matter when something was paid if that were the case. But unfortunately, it's not like that. Only one sentence [[Thank you very much.]] And therefore, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues of the HDZ Club cannot support a law that discriminates against certain taxpayers. [[Intruder: You can.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41326	Thank you, too. We're closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law and I am asking you to plead by raising your hand. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Score. I find that most 70 votes in favour, 21 votes against and 5 abstentions have been passed by the Value Added Tax Act, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the adopted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41327	We move on to - Final bill on amendments and additions to the General Tax Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 380. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, the opening statement will be given by Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41328	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. You have before you amendments and additions to the General Tax Law, where we are mostly in line with EU Council directives. In short, I'll tell you what the directives are about. So, EU Council Directives, Directive No. 16/2011. on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. The aim of the Directive is to oblige Member States to exchange information on direct taxes with each other, meaning anything other than VAT and contributions, so that no tax avoidance would occur because of their assets or operations in another Member State. The second Directive No. 24/2010. on mutual assistance in the collection of claims relating to taxes, customs duties and other measures. The directive aims to enable the collection of claims in all Member States where the taxpayer has property. And the third Directive No. 48./2003. on the exchange of interest on savings where the objective of the directive is to enable, regardless of where the Member State of interest is paid to the Member State of residence of the taxpayer to learn about the amount of interest achieved and all to allow for taxation in the country of residence. It is important here to say that banks and other interest payers in the Republic of Croatia are required to provide information on the interest paid to EU citizens annually until 31.03 for the previous calendar year. The first commitment will be until 31.03.2014 for 2013. Secondly, the Tax Administration is required to submit and forward data on their citizens who paid interest in the Republic of Croatia by 30.06 for the previous calendar year. So, the first commitment is until 30.06.2014 for 2013. In the Republic of Croatia, no interest on savings is taxed. However, in view of the Member States' obligation to exchange interest-to-EU information, the Republic of Croatia will receive annually information on the amount of interest paid to Croatian residents in one of the Member States. Exceptionally, the Republic of Croatia will not receive information from Luxembourg and Austria on the paid interest of Croatian residents because these two countries tax interest in their countries, but in the case of Croatian residents in Luxembourg and Austria they will receive 75% of the income from the taxed interest of Croatian residents precisely because of the inability to exchange information. Also, what is in line with the General Tax Law is to comply with the infringement law in part of the way in which the level of fines is prescribed depending on the severity of the tax offense. Thus, the fine for tax offences that are in a way that introduces the upper and lower limits of fines for responsible persons in accordance with the Criminal Code is harmonised and tax offences are grouped as easier, more severe and difficult. For each group of infringements indicated, specific fines have been established. These changes relating to cash account, changes and additions shall also be subject to exemptions from the issue of invoices in places considered as not having adequate infrastructure for the implementation of the same, or situations where it is extremely difficult to ensure the uninterrupted implementation of invoices by means of a payment device. So, mostly when we're talking about selling our own agricultural products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41329	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. The first in line are clubs. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists – Labour Party Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41330	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here is another draft of the law, this time the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Law, with the final proposal of the law, with the European law, we must also get used to the fact that since 1.77, we will all be European because we are becoming an EU member. I always hoped that this was some definition of redistributing social wealth and correcting the results of market action. Now we should regulate that with taxes. Depending on what I talked about earlier when we discussed VAT, these laws are often the most obvious political acts. It's tax laws that tell us where the government of a country is going. So certainly, the tax laws of the Republic of Croatia also speak of the fact that we are certainly not the state that primarily protects the poorest and that we have not done enough in this tax legislation to make this redistribution of social wealth as fair as possible and to make tax use of the results of market action. And this time when I read the General Tax Law, which is in line with the directives, I hoped, but again, not much because I expected something similar, that there might be a reading which, or provisions that might suggest that this social democratic government would move from word to deed, or that it would try to redistribute social wealth. This law is aligned with Directives, the exchange of data is prescribed, aid, the application of equal rules in the Union. So, all that the EU countries have done, but especially in their state legislation, in different ways again, depending on how they treat social wealth. Croatian Labourists are absolutely certain to support this law because it has a European mark but we think it is also the task of these governments and the next governments that the redistribution of social wealth is beginning to take place as soon as possible and that this government has also realized that the results of the market operations are certainly not in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41331	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Nadica Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41332	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Introducing the fact that in less than 20 days, we are entering the EU formally. I stress that because that fact is the primary reason why this law is passed by emergency procedure. In particular, the main changes and additions in this legislative proposal make it precisely more consistent with the EU acquis in part of administrative cooperation in the field of tax and exchange of information on paid savings interest, which is one of the conditions for joining the EU Republic of Croatia. The second group of amendments and additions are the harmonisations of the General Tax Code with the Criminal Law, and the third group is the amendments and additions to the issue of cash accounts and to the implementation. So I'd like to tell you about each of these groups for something. I have already pointed out firstly that the first group of amendments and additions is in line with the new EU directives on administrative cooperation, and this is with Council Directive No. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. 2010/24 on mutual assistance in the collection of demand related to taxes, customs and other public duties, and Directive 2003/48 which is particularly interesting because it implies the exchange of data on savings and its implementation and its implementation in the legal system of Croatia should ensure that all those who save in Croatia are resident in other EU Member States and, of course, taxpayers on savings that this tax and pay, according to the regulations of the country of residence of which they are resident. In one word, by harmonising with the provisions of these Directives, administrative cooperation with Member States relating to taxes and other public duties is significantly extended in a way that more precisely defines time limits for the exchange of information in order to extend the right to use information and documents obtained, to determine the conditions under which information can be forwarded to non-EU members, in order to allow comparative supervision of persons in two or more Member States and with the presence of authorised officials of a certain tax authority in another Member State. The use of standard forms and their electronic delivery to the intended communication channels shall also be prescribed. All these forms of cooperation will become a reality in less than twenty days, as I have said since 1st of this year, however, it should also be said that since 1st January 2015, this cooperation will be further extended to the exchange of data on certain categories of income and property, so that I will be quite precise on income from non-permanent work, on membership in boards and administrative councils, on pensions, on life insurance and on income from property and property rights. I would like to say a few words about what is meant by expanding the scope of mutual assistance from members in the collection of foreign claims in Croatia. In particular, this means that the Croatian tax authority will have to assist the other Member's competent authority in trying to collect certain claims made in that other EU member state. These claims are all taxes and all other public taxes, refunds and intervention payments from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, imposed within the framework of the common organisation of the sugar market, as well as fines and administrative fees relating to the payment of the claims mentioned above. The law also sets out the exact details and charges for which such aid will not be provided. These are contributions to compulsory insurance, i.e. pension and health, contractual giving, and fees and fines for certain offences. When we talk about harmonising the provisions of the General Tax Code with the provisions of the Criminal Law, the most interesting news is a unique executive document as an instrument that allows the collection of foreign claims in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the law in force since the beginning of this month requires that all decisions have been made in the infringement procedure of the executive document, so this General Tax Act should be complemented in that sense. The aim of this harmonisation is to strengthen social discipline through a more effective forced charge, strengthen prevention, and thus to strengthen citizens' confidence in criminal sanctions. The alignment with the Criminal Code was also committed for infringements in the field of tax and finance in such a way that a selection of infringements according to their severity was committed and that the infringements were subsequently grouped into the relevant categories from the easiest to the most serious ones, and in accordance with the specific severity of the infringements, adequate fines were also prescribed from those of the lowest to maximum ones. It is also an interesting part of the proposed amendments and additions to this tax law that concern the tax debt management strategy. It is a much more modern, more rational, more efficient approach to collect tax debt, as measures are prescribed to remove this unproductive waste of time to monitor old obligations and mainly those which are non-refundable. The function of such rationalization is the write-off of the debt itself. Namely, it is proposed to write off all those tax debts, which, by condition of December 31st of the current tax year, do not exceed 10 kuna per each type of tax. And I think that's really good. However, the re-recording of the tax debt is also foreseen in the case of abuse of law and in the case of the existence of a valid solution to the removal from the court register. In one word, the purpose of these amendments is to clarify the tax debt records in order to obtain a clearer picture of the real state of tax debts and their payability and to obtain one more quality basis for creating a management strategy for the total tax debt. And a few more words about the obligation to issue cash accounts. The proposal sets out the tax on the types of traffic for which an exemption is prescribed from the obligation to issue a cash account. Other exemptions are also provided for the sale of their own agricultural products produced on their own holding. And sold directly to the final consumer either in the production facilities of peasant or family farms, or in markets and open spaces. By means of sales in markets and open spaces, only sales are made in one of the following two ways. So, on the stands and benches in the markets at a little or on the stands and benches outside the market for a little bit. Why am I pointing this out? I would like to stress that it explicitly underlines sales in certain situations. So not only the provision of services, but certain places and situations. Therefore, there will be no exceptions to the issue of an invoice if the sale takes place on markets with solid facilities where there is actually the possibility of installing the equipment necessary for the issue of an invoice. Therefore, the exemption will apply exclusively to places where there is no infrastructure support, i.e. infrastructure conditions for installing chargers. Finally, I do not think it is important to stress that the implementation of this law did not require the provision of resources in the state budget because part of the costs of strengthening and administrative cooperation is financed by European means, so through the IPA 2008 programme, while part of the funds is secured by the contract between the Ministry of Finance, Tax Administration and the APIS IT agency. The SDP advocates' club will support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41333	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41334	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, at least in the opinion of us from the Croatian Democratic Community Club, actually share one feature with the previous law. It is presented here as P.Z.E., therefore, a law that is implementing harmonisation with the European Union. However, what the observations are really about is that part of the law relating to provisions and decisions that have no direct link to membership in the European Union. The first such is the question of treatment, so-called treatment. disputedly charged debts. That is, the new 137th article of the General Tax Code. The article looks almost benign. So he says that the disputed collection of debts, the tax authority from its records, will be transferred to the records of the disputed collection of debts. It is not clear whose second record will now be passed on to the debts owed by the tax administration. However, the matter becomes much clearer when it looks into the reasoning of the Law. And the explanation of this article, which states that this article prescribes measures to eliminate the cost of time and effort to monitor old and mainly non-refundable debts. So I would like to say, that is, the promoter has said that it proposes a legal article that will prevent time from being spent. This, an explanation of spending time and reducing the effort and efforts of the tax administration might not be so strange and perhaps not so much in the eyes that the tax administration has not spent much of the same time, effort and energy interpreting all of us and the entire Croatian people that they will now do everything in their power and collect all possible tax debts because, as so far, no one has done. So the tax administration has been estimating that 10, 12, 15 billion kuna can be charged now because the tax administration is no longer working on the political dictatorship. And we saw about it and something in the discussion of the previous law. However, here now comes the OPZ where certain articles of the law are explained by removing time and effort to monitor these old debts. It is also said in the same explanation that officials are forced to charge to make it difficult for them to identify and process the most promising items especially in the absence of sophisticated software experts who would clear a huge amount of debt and set priorities. This points to the conclusion, according to our proposal, that the total outstanding debts are expressed in excess of the real situation but cannot be said for how much. So does that mean that everything you've been saying for the past year and a half doesn't make any sense, because here you're saying that the total unpaid debts have been shown in excess. This article concludes that the Tax Administration essentially wants to stop dealing with the problem and issues of payment of tax debts. It's hard for them now. I can understand the many problems that arise in this process and I know the problem and part and its structure and what it is and what these are all obstacles that the Tax Administration is facing in this process and I also know that some debts unfortunately cannot be charged. We all know that. However, I remind you gentlemen and ladies you've been building your policy for the past year and a half to do so and that's possible. Well, now I don't see any reason for this job to be declared a waste of time like you do, and of course if we were to look at the budget of the data that you published on the first four months of June 11th and then we see that in the first four months you picked up a billion and a hundred million kunas less taxes than last year. That's smart enough. Another issue that this law deals with is the issue of exemptions from the obligation to issue an account, so it is possible to discuss in this place a problem which currently affects a part of the agricultural population, the population that lives on agriculture and which sells its agricultural products in the markets. It is said here that those who sell their own agricultural products from their own production are on booths and benches in the markets that they are not obliged to issue an account which then I understand means they are not bonds of the fiscalisation process. And that provision is good. However, they are not the only ones in the markets that sell their own agricultural products. They exist here, because they only talk about agricultural products here. There are also those who sell the products of the fishing industry for which it is extremely difficult to say whether they belong in the category of their own. But we'll all agree that it's literally impossible to hold on to equipment to issue such accounts. The problem is that at this point in the middle of 6 months, it is now plagued by a significant part of the population that lives on these activities, it is imposed on it a commitment that is difficult or impossible to meet and which will, in fact, result in a time-constraint in the ultimate end of its supply to these domestic agricultural products in the markets. This law and Article 54b. It was an excellent opportunity to respond to these requirements and consider the problem. Croatia is the one that enters the EU 1.7 will be one of the few EU member states in which there are even markets, in which there is at all the possibility of trade in originating and agricultural and fishing products and represents in some way the value we import into the EU. The fiscalization process threatens that value. And the next thing with this law is unclear and as much as we read the law, the meaning of Article 177 is not clear. Article 177 speaks of the mandatory automatic exchange of information which states that the tax authority, i.e. the Tax Administration, will provide the competent authorities of other Member States with information of the following content: income from non-permanent work, receipts of board members and boards, products of life insurance, pensions and property. This information is not an integral part of the exchange of data related to income from savings and interest because this exchange of information refers to non-residents of other countries who make incomes based on interest and incomes. The exchange of this information is also not related to the collection of tax-based demand and other public duties because it is not in that section of the law. This exchange and this possibility for the Tax Administration to foreign states under unclear conditions, I did not find the conditions in this law described, in vague reasons it provides information on salaries, incomes, pensions and property of Croatian citizens on real estate. I don't understand what context that is, I don't understand what it is. This is neither in the light of the law nor in the law, since it is always called for in Article 174, which states that cooperation relates to all taxes of any kind applied by Member States. I understand the cooperation and exchange of data in the context of the tax, but I do not understand the cooperation and exchange of data in the context of salaries, pensions and property over real estate. You didn't explain it, sir, nor did you explain it in the introduction. If this provision remains this way, it provides for the possibility of exchanging data with other countries, the exchange of personal data, the data which, in the context of our Tax Administration, represent a certain tax secret, because these are the basis on which the tax to be paid is determined, it is unclear why this information would be exchanged with other Member States. Nowhere in this law is said to be information about non-residents working in Croatia. I understand that possible foreign countries working in Croatia would need this data, but it does not say anything in the law. As the law states, it also states that it refers to all citizens who work and pay taxes in Croatia, including Croatian residents. For these reasons, the HDZ club will not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41335	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41336	Here's to all of you again. I have to admit that I am not a tax collector, but here is something I would not say even in layman's terms, I understand what is happening and I hear what the Croatian citizens and Croatian people are saying, but I also see and follow what is happening in the European Union, which we are entering 1.7, although not exactly upright, but I would say even broken spines which are not only the response to this government but also a series of governments that have been acting so way in the Republic of Croatia, and you have agreed to make a greater contribution to that broken spine and broken knees of the Republic of Croatia. There is once again an amendment to the general tax law and, in the final line, already in the context of the tax law, in view of this, to say, the reasons of the Ministry or the promoter that the basic issues which are being regulated by the proposed law, that this will be in line with the EU legislation, that this will be in line with the Criminal Law, that there will be other amendments and additions and that this law will be produced, that effective exchange of information between Member States in the field of tax and the collection of foreign demand, and in order to combat tax evasion and tax influences, an increase in the income of the state budget and to preserve the financial interests of the Member States of the European Union. And here we can immediately see the one balance that we had by adopting certain taxes in the Republic of Croatia, first of all by increasing VAT, then by publishing that list of debtors, by collecting that debt, by patching up budget holes that all that was said at that time was clearly not now and the matter of reality because we still have a lack of income in the state budget compared to expenditures, and this specifically applies to certain types of taxes. If we really want to prevent tax evasion, we will certainly not prevent it from collecting or exempting sales on markets and open spaces, and in particular because it is considered exclusively to sell its own agricultural products to a consumer who is being carried out either on stands or benches in small, on stands and benches outside the markets for a little while. So it certainly won't fill the state budget, it won't run Croatia, it won't prevent tax evasion. However, I do not understand, therefore, and I say I am not a tax expert, that it is exceptional from Article 54(1) of this law that bills do not have to be exposed if traffic is achieved from the preparation of lottery games, betting games. So this is all that at this point I would say affects, especially these betting games, affecting the exceptional decade in Croatian society and that one large majority not only of the young population in Croatia but above all one large and wide spectrum of the population of Croatia is affected by this particular monster, casino games and gambling machines. Then, if the bulk of the value of traffic refers to the retailing of daily press, tobacco, tobacco processing, stamps of another post office. So, which means retailing tobacco reprocessing, which means betting games, which means automatics and putting it in the same category as selling agricultural products. In the market, in stands, benches or outside the market, outside the booths and benches. And here is the basic question here not only of the Tax Administration but also of the Ministry of Finance, since we often go to changes and supplements of any kind of tax from real estate, but there is still a consensus between coalition partners. A colleague, Gjurkovic, on the one hand, is said to do so, on the other hand, you nod. So this should be made clear and loud in the Government of the Republic of Croatia to give up taxes on real estate, i.e. on property. The other one is a kind of real estate tax, but it's a one-time thing and it's about that. So, the proposal of the HDSSB Club is that we go into full change and the General Tax Law, as well as all laws that are related to and the General Tax Law and that we do indeed comply with what we have in the EU since we enter the EU on 1 July. Here, for example. I'll start with the VAT rate. In Luxembourg, it is 15% and should not be mentioned regardless of what it is a small country to say, not in terms of its strength, but GDP or the possibility of spending per capita is 97,000 euros, or 112 thousand euros, while in Croatia in Zagreb it is 6700 euros and in Vukovar-Srijem County it is 3200 euros per capita per year. In Cyprus it is 18, Malta 18, Germany 19, see they did not increase to 25, France has 19.6, then one whole series of countries Austria, Bulgaria, Estonia, Slovakia, Slovenia, United Kingdom, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Spain moves from 20 to 21 and then probably the country we so deeply aim for Greece has even less 23. The only one of us is a country with a higher value added tax in Hungary and Denmark and Sweden, which have the same value added tax of 25% but have an extremely large standard of living than Croatia, which at the moment has a drop in GDP, these are the latest indicators actually three months in 2013, there is a decline in living standards, there is also a decline in consumption, there is also a decline in industrial production, a decline in production in general. So, in addition to this, the story of Croatia's full centralisation, it is an immediate response to those who at this point doubt, and all those who act both in local and regional self-government know that the local administration has indeed received a series of powers back 10 years but who unfortunately have not been followed by the financial effect of decentralisation. And that regardless of the impact of economic activity and the increase in economic activity, such a system of centralised state cannot survive because local self-government and regional self-government are currently the only two kunas of income from tax, and 1 kuna gets regional self-government and 97 kuna goes into the state budget. And if we really want to harmonise and the General Tax Law should then look at what is happening in EU member states where this relationship is absolutely not so, that we are the most centralised country, that such a relationship towards local, regional self-government was not even in those highly centralised socialist or communist countries where the percentage was somewhere around 15%, taking into account what was happening in the dungeon of the Croatian people of socialist Yugoslavia where taxes were brought down to those former municipalities, the former community of municipalities compared to 15, to 20% So from there somewhere since '93 when local and regional self-government in the Republic was created in this new model with cities, municipalities and counties, this fall is evident and it is right now on these around 3%. So, in addition to this General Tax Law, we certainly urge that from 1.7. to go into full decentralisation of Croatia, taking into account what is happening in the EU in developed EU countries where exactly one high decentralisation rate followed by powers and also followed by finances. So you can get the authority, but if you don't have the money, then you're out of power. So we don't go through certain countries that still have to say a completely centralised system and where there's simply no possibility of developing a country or local or regional self-government. And here's to the end, and it's about the question of the General Tax Law I'm interested in since it's been a few months since one announcement of the integration of a tax evasion system, whether the Ministry of Finance or the Tax Administration came to those Croatian citizens who robbed Croatia during the conversion and privatisation, and where they took the amount from the Republic of Croatia to certain islands through certain companies, since it can't and cannot be strictly confidential, it must not be a secret and every Croatian citizen must know who is hiding behind those names, because I hope we haven't waited just for changes to the General Tax Code to bring them into line in the first and second reading process, in order to get to get to that data and to practically the Croatian state and Croatian citizens to collect what is one of the bestial ways taken from both the Croatian state and Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41337	On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41338	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister with colleague, colleague and colleague. So, on behalf of the HNS Club, I express my support for this law on changes and addition of the General Tax Law with the final proposal of the law because, except that I am not repeating with most of what has been said and related to compliance with the EU, the transparency of the data itself is the exchange of information, the exchange of information relating to interest generated by natural or legal persons in EU or in Croatia shows in any case that the Tax Administration has become not only a part of Croatia's entry into the EU but also a component of the EU in that segment, which it covers but also with its staff or with its complete equipment can work evenly on the part of the job that is crucial and essential and it is essential that there is no tax possibility of damage and the state and citizens from those who are trying to bypass all institutions that are possible to achieve tax pay, which is a certain income, and in any case, it is good that it also says the tax administration and that it is possible to avoid the fact that it is possible and that it is possible to avoid any possible to avoid any possible and to avoid that it. What I would also say is that it is good that, in the matter of and debates on the offences mentioned here, a well-defined, well-placed distinction of one from an easy to a certain serious offense because, of course, not everything can be put in order to tell me in the same basket, or in the same basket and on that matter are different fines. And on behalf of the HNS Club, he would give one message and appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to discuss these proposals and amendments that are related to this law is this P.Z.E. means only one reading, and this is related to this debate which has been led on the exemption from the obligation to issue an account. It is already mentioned, so I can say for sure that the technical conditions that exist in retail markets are not the conditions in which neither the fiscalisation nor the invoices for those for which this law did not put the exception in the proposal. So other than the exceptions provided for here for the sale of their own agricultural products to the final consumer on the stands and benches in the retail markets, I can say for a little while that it would be good and I propose to the Government and the Ministry of Finance to consider delaying the decision to introduce fiscalisation and issue invoices and those who, other than their agricultural products, sell the products of their neighbours, their fellow farmers, small farmers because the conditions they have or do not have in the markets, and they can certainly speak about the city of Split from which they come, are not such that they will be able to realise it. We all know that the arrival of large centres has significantly compromised this segment of sales, i.e. domestic production. And one delay until there are conditions in which it would really be without a problem not only in terms of the technical or monetary investment in certain fiscalisation apparatus, or for the issuing of accounts, but in all the technical conditions that those who set up, or rent, places to provide them, would certainly be one gain for small agricultural producers and the possibility to continue to work. Because at this point in time, we think that it would mean that a part of those who sell would no longer be able to do that, in any case, which is not good in this economic situation but also for the realisation of the sales of the product itself. And what's important is also not little are agricultural products domestic products. Therefore, they are absolutely not importable. Therefore, one more time I would ask on behalf of the HNS Club to consider that this segment means not only agricultural producers who sell their products but those who sell and produce naturally domestic but also from their neighbours producers or who are unable to come to, which would tell me the bank to ensure that they continue to do so until technical conditions are created in which at least they blame themselves on what can not be realised today. Thank you very much. All this other stuff about the law, I absolutely support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41339	Replica Marijan Škvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41340	Here I would be, in any case, about amending and supplementing the General Tax Law based on two more things that were mentioned here by the Club... The first is that really Article 8 of the obligation to keep a tax secret that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in a way that changes in quality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That in the part about local self-government where we will discuss the audit reports and the effectiveness of the collection, it was said that these data cannot be exchanged and given because they are in some way a obligation to keep tax secrets. I hope that this article is now amended and that we, as mayors, will be able to use that data now in terms of efficiency and collection. So we can participate in that part of it to make that charge better. And in particular, I'd really like to be related to the fiscal exemption if really at the cryings, that's our tradition, that we're really taking care of it. Because not only is it difficult to issue an account, not only that, but during the day, they change the prices by direct contract. Let's consider tradition and it's in Europe so that really that part of this is the request of the HNS Club and respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41341	Final word on behalf of the promoter, Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41342	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, for your discussion. And only two, three clarifications related here during the debate opened. The question was about the exchange of information, so this is an exchange of information to reduce tax evasion. So in the exchange of information between the Republic of Croatia and the member states of the European Union where information on income is actually exchanged, about other forms of capital but for those citizens who are actually, Croatian citizens who work outside and foreigners who work in the Republic of Croatia. So we don't work for all citizens but only for those who work in different areas. Just so it doesn't, it'll reduce the tax ejaculation. Because one question has been raised here, to whom, to whom these citizens refer. So in that part, let's be clear. And it was also said here that the tax administration is not working well and that this year a billion kuna is less tax. Yes, a billion kuna is less tax but because I also said VAT because a law was introduced where the tax on reinvested profits was released and where, we have a billion kuna less tax revenues because we left a billion kuna more to the economy in the name of the reinvested profits in the economy for their liquidity, to encourage employment, to invest, etc. Not because it's a bad job of the tax administration. So when we're actually talking about trying to implicate the poor work of the tax administration exactly the other way around. And when we talk about the tax press that there's no tax press, it's actually going through this billion kuna, which is a big budget money to free businessmen from investment. So a billion kuna is lower on basic reinvested profits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41343	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41344	The following is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Code, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 380. The debate on the text of the Law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the representative of the Proposer, the Honored Minister of Finance, to show himself on Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41345	The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41346	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final text. Amendment No. Article 20(2)
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41347	The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41348	It becomes an integral part of the final proposal. And Amendment No. Article 44(3)
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41349	The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41350	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it. Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that most of the votes of 77 votes in favour, 21 votes against and 1 abstention was passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Law in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41351	Our colleagues and colleagues would now unite: - Final proposal of the Defence Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 243; - Final proposal of the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 244; After the discussion of these two proposals has been completed, we would continue with the laws relating to finance from point 9. So, the proposer of these laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action in boxes. In the case of the adoption of these laws, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee, and you received reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, the laws will be introduced by Defence Minister Ante Kotromanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41352	Madam Vice President of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here after a long time, after almost two years I will return to the Parliament here but in another capacity. As Vice President of the Parliament said today, we have two laws. So the Final Proposal for a Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Final Proposal for the Defence Act. We had a debate this morning, a very good debate on the Defence Committee, and in one way we've been through all these things, and so I'm going to be able to say a relatively short one. Certainly before the transition to these two laws, I must point out that, let everyone know that here in Parliament, that, in the drafting of the Law on Defence, the Service Act, we had great cooperation with the Defence Committee, where, at the head of it, our colleague, Ivić and all the representatives, with all the representatives that we had had a good debate, that we had repeatedly communicated and presented..., that many of the comments of the Defence Committee had been respected and that made us happy in the sense that this was a joint work, a transparent work, a democratic work on the creation of two laws that were very important and important to us for the functioning of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the Defence Act is concerned, there is a final draft of the law before you, following the adoption of the proposed law in the first reading after the debate we held on the law at the working bodies' sessions, at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, at the the thematic session of the Defence Committee, which was held at our Ministry of Defence after the first reading, we prepared a final draft of the law. The proposed law first and foremost represents a alignment with the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which redefines the role, tasks and actions of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed law regulates the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic as commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence and the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces in the area of defence. As you know, these two laws were last written in 2002 and it was simply time for them to comply with the Constitution, to facilitate in one way the functioning of the Armed Forces in a better and better way. The legislative proposal regulates the command, use and use of the Armed Forces to assist in fire protection, rescue and surveillance and protection of the rights of the Republic of Croatia at sea through the Coast Guard. The law prescribes the composition and jurisdiction of the Defence Council, as well as the jurisdiction of the Defence Inspectorate, I am talking about the Defence Act. The proposed law regulates military obligations as well as other duties and rights of citizens in defence. In order to ensure continued training of the appropriate number of citizens for military defence, the possibility of voluntary and military training, which also allows women, shall be arranged to ensure that basic military knowledge and skills are acquired, i.e. an equal competition for admission into the active composition of the Armed Forces. About 15 days ago, you saw that we had a competition for the best Army soldier and we also had a member of the Armed Forces who out of 105 employees, so she competed alone as a woman and was 19. So we stick to it and encourage equal treatment within the system itself. Military service, or civil service, is mandatory under the law in the event of a situation of immediate threat or war. The Croatian Parliament may decide on the introduction of a military service obligation, or civil service. The proposed law lays down specific areas within the competence of the Armed Forces to which specific laws are referred, such as the jurisdiction of authorised military police officers, the jurisdiction in the field of military, air and maritime transport, as well as matters relating to military construction and spatial planning in military locations. The Defence Act also proposes to regulate material care and defence financing. As we had a good and constructive discussion and dialogue during the writing of these two laws, and in accordance with the comments of the Defence Committee and of certain clubs of MPs, a provision was incorporated during the first reading of the law in such a way that this final proposal prescribed the competence of the home working body, that is, the Defence Committee, to give an opinion to the Ministry of Defence for Public Procurement Procedures in the area of defence value greater than 5 million euros. So we absolutely support this proposal, our goal as well as yours is likely to ensure full and transparent supervision and to strengthen the role of the Parliament and, in particular, the Committee in the Democratic Oversight of the Ministry of Defence, and this is a good step and good practice, and through a few things, we have strengthened the position of the Parliament and the Defence Committee and I have gladly accepted it. I think it's an excellent way and a way to be better and better quality in further our work, of course. In 2012, the year was the decision and preparation of major projects at the Ministry of Defence, the remont of planes and helicopters and the preparation of procedures that precede the construction of coastal... ships for the needs of the Coast Guard which are these days ahead of the realisation of the treaty. As Minister of Defence, I point out in many places, and I also address the public through the media, and today it is my special honor to point out in front of this House that you all need to know about these procedures all, that all these procedures must be visible, clearly placed and transparent. In line with the views of the Defence Committee, the provision of a final proposal for a defence law has been amended in such a way that it is prescribed that it is a member of the Defence Council and the chairman of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. It's a newspaper, we didn't have it in the Defense Act before, and we think it's a good thing that the chairman of the Defence Committee is in the Defence Council when he meets and talks about important matters in the field of defence. In the part of the provisions laying down the powers of the Ministry of Defence and the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces, the amendments in relation to the draft law relate to certain nomotechnical improvements. In order to implement this law, resources in the state budget shall be provided at the position of the Ministry of Defence and no additional financial resources shall be necessary for its implementation. So we believe that this normative arrangement will contribute to further progress, the process of transforming the Armed Forces into... small but good, equipped and effective forces capable of carrying out assigned missions and tasks. As far as the Service Act is concerned, after 10 years of application of the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with its novels, it has proved necessary to amend certain legal solutions or to amend them in a different way to better support the reform and development of the Armed Forces. For many years I have been in the Armed Forces system, for many years I have been in command, and this law has been in many ways, the Law of Service on which we are particularly happy to adopt it in the Croatian Parliament and to support that, it is simply time to write a new one. The old law has been holding us back in many ways, he's been holding back... The Croatian Army. I said on the board example today. We've had a lawsuit, let's say we have a lot of lawsuits based on the old Service Act and we have to set aside about 75 to 80 million kunas per year on behalf of the lawsuits that come to us every day because we've been applying a collective law in the Service Act where he said that the soldier works eight hours. It's for a professional soldier simply not allowed. We had a lawsuit from Afghanistan a few months ago where our member of the Armed Forces sued the Ministry of Defense because he thinks it's working time to 4, and of 4-5 for excessive mentoring of Afghan security forces, and that's where it went, and that law tells us very important and important. We've brought in a series of things. We also had excellent cooperation with outside board members, with active board members. It's a good thing we have in the Committee on the Defence of People who were in the system, who were in charge of jobs, which were in important places, by General Stipetic, by General Medved, General Tus and other outside members, especially because these were former colleagues who gave us a really good basis for discussion and we are together with active members, so with MPs had this good discussion and we have introduced a number of new changes within the law. So the goal of this law is to be more efficient, to be better. We propose to regulate access to services, schedules, we propose to resolve the acts of how to resolve promotion, obligations, rights, responsibilities,... and other status issues of members. The proposed law also includes newspapers relating to a new category of persons, which are military specialists. It's very important and important to us. It's a union request, we've respected it, and that way we'll make it possible for all those people who matter to us, who work on important jobs like the gunman we can't get someone from the market, we need an experienced man. We'll make it possible for him from the status of the tenant or employee to become a military specialist no matter how old he is, what kind of professional he is preparing because we want that man to stay as long in the system as possible. In those specialists other than the special expertise necessary for the conduct of the military specialist's duties, general reception conditions for the military service must also be met. Thus, the current law prescribes that these issues which are not governed by the law or regulations adopted under that law apply rules on civil servants and tenants, general labour regulations or collective agreements concluded in accordance with that law. So the proposed law leaves this extension and suggests that future rights from military relations be explicitly regulated by this law. The final draft of the law is more precise provisions relating to voluntary military training and cadet service. And here we are going to a small reform of complete education and we hope that in 2014 we will have a whole new system that will allow a much better and better quality officer for Armed Forces. This law stipulates that voluntary military training is directed by adult citizens of the Republic of Croatia who apply voluntarily, are selected and directed to training by the end of the calendar year, who are 29 years of age. In accordance with the needs of the service, the Ministry of Defence may conclude a third military service contract for a period of 6 years, in accordance with the needs of the service. The current law said we have a 3+5, first contract on three, second contract on five. We also decided to make it possible for these soldiers to stay longer because these are the people we, we've invested a lot in and they're getting schooled, they're real special forces. And now we will allow these people to get up to 20 years of active service of the Ministry of Defence, and in parallel with Miranda Mrsic, we are working on making it possible for these people to have a minimum pension after 20 years and to work further in society and the system as needed and as they are interested. So, the proposed law regulates the schedule of military duties to be determined by a joint or individual decision on the schedule of soldiers and officers of the deployed... the Staff of the Armed Forces or persons... So the proposed law requires the powers of the schedule for officers, or generals, admirals who, in accordance with the provisions of the law... are not appointed by the President of the Republic. So, also for the implementation of this law, there is no need to provide additional resources and it can go means in the procedure immediately. After the adoption of these laws and after the adoption of these laws, there is a big deal ahead of us, it is to arrange a series of regulations, a series of sublegal acts of the Ministry of Defence. We've already made a hodogram of activity so we're not late with these things. We need to get these newspapers into the system as soon as possible because it concerns the Armed Forces first and foremost. Thank you very much, gentlemen, and I'd like so much for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41353	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41354	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister and Madam Deputy. The HDZ Club will support both the laws and the Law on Defence and the Law on Service in the Armed Forces, regardless of our serious objection to non-compliance with the procedure for the adoption of the law. At its meeting on 24 May, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the Final Proposal of the Law on Defence and the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces, without the prior opinion of the President of the Republic, although in the Law on Defence in Article 7(2), paragraph 25, I quote: "The Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces gives a preliminary opinion on the proposals of acts in the area of defence brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament." Therefore, no standard procedure is respected and in such cases, which is not good, especially respecting the fact that the previous opinion is not binding. Therefore, the President of the Republic sent a preliminary opinion directly to the Croatian Parliament. It would certainly be good to bring the final draft of the law into line with the views of the Government and the President of the Republic, especially since the President of the Republic and the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces. The reference is also to a long period that has passed between the first and second readings. The first reading was held on January 30th of this year, so nearly 4.5 months ago, which is really too long, regardless of the proposal that the various views and opinions of the ministry, the Head of Staff, the president of the Republic of Croatia, the Union, the Defence Committee are really in line. As a result, they did not have a number of members of the Armed Forces who had expired a professional contract in a position to wait without a contract for the adoption of the law so that they could eventually receive a third professional service contract in the Armed Forces. We consider both laws to be good, that there are significant improvements to existing legal provisions. It is particularly good that a significant number of remarks and proposals made in the first reading and on the Defence Committee as well as at the plenary session have been accepted. It is also good that a good part of the union proposal is accepted and included in the final draft law. We welcome that the bill includes a proposal to strengthen the role of the Parliament and the Parliamentary Defence Committee in such a way as to require the opinion of the Defence Committee for Public Procurement Procedures in the area of defence value greater than 5m euros and that members of the Defence Council are also the president of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament, which certainly contributes to a more successful democratic surveillance of the armed forces. In relation to first reading, the positive relationship between the Ministry of Defence and the Chief Staff is significant, which can contribute to a more successful functioning of the overall system. When it comes to the Armed Forces Service Act, we particularly welcome the legal possibility to conclude a 3rd professional 6-year contract for all those who meet the conditions which are a significant improvement because under the current law, professional soldiers had the possibility to conclude only two contracts on a 3+5-year period. The HDZ Club is of the opinion that the proposed provisions of the law can be improved and added and we will propose several amendments. Our desire and goal is to pass good laws, without any daily political interest, because these are key laws of defence and national security. And finally, I would like to say that when the final bill was drawn up, therefore, in this period between the first and second readings, it was a good communication with the Ministry of Defence and the present desire on both sides to make good bill proposals, and this also resulted in the fact that they were accepted as I have said a number of proposals that were also on the Defence Committee, which were also at the plenary session of the Parliament, but also the proposals that came from the Chief Staff of the Union, which is for each commendation, and I think that this is a good way to go especially when it comes to key laws, and there is no doubt that the Law on Defence and the Law on Service in the Armed Forces are really crucial laws when it comes to defence and national security of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41355	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, a colleague of Sandra Petrovic-Jakovina and Dunja Špoljar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41356	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable ministers, respected deputy ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Here in the Croatian Parliament, following a debate on the proposal for a law on defence in the first reading, which was held there on 30 January this year, it was concluded that the comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate were given to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the law. First of all, it is necessary to say that the current Defence Act was first passed back in 2002, so 11 years ago, since then it has only been amended several times, the most significant of which was in 2007, and the last time it was not until 2009. However, these changes were not more significant in nature than in 2007 which was necessary in order to meet the conditions for establishing international cooperation and interoperability in the NATO collective defence system, which we were then preparing to join. Therefore, given the fact that so many older breeds are the law, we consider it necessary and logical to approach in this way a detailed and extensive discussion of the text of the Law on the Defence of Proposers together with all relevant institutions whose powers in the defence portfolio stem from this law, that therefore new legislation has been approached, because these two laws that we have today are on the agenda of an outdated period of time and that in practice the problems in the functioning of the Armed Forces are already being brought into practice. The fundamental law of defence resistors is in front of us in the second reading, it represents a series of newspapers, and we think that it is well prepared to agree on all the essential elements of all the subjects, which is very important, and what is also formally important came as a final proposal for a new law rather than as amendments and additions to the Defence Act. Generally speaking, the new Defence Act is a alignment with the new position of the Armed Forces within NATO, within the EU system and no less important alignment with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Since we had the opportunity to make our remarks in the first reading of the law, suggestions and opinions to the promoter might be good for us to mention in the second reading which are respected and which make up the final draft of the law. First of all, the text of the provision of Article 1 of the final proposal for a law replacing the words democratic control with the words democratic supervision. It is in line with the Croatian term and content of the institute. The final proposal in Article 6 also provides for an important competence of the parent body of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament and an opinion on public procurement procedures in the area of defence value of more than 5 billion euros. Why does it matter? Parliamentary oversight of public procurement procedures is a galloping area in all democracies. Where public procurement in the area of security and defence affairs is of particular interest to the public. Because the amounts of public procurement are very high because investment in the military is done periodically and very carefully and in practice, not only with us but also in neighbouring countries. These public procurements are very often speculative. In the part prescribed by the responsibilities of the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the new provision is complemented by the new provision which prescribes that he appoints and relieves the military personnel in office in the military cabinet of the President of the Republic of Croatia, which is the establishment unit of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia. What was agreed by almost all clubs in the first reading is another form of strengthening parliamentary oversight in the Defence Act. And this is that a member of the Defence Council should also be appointed president of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. This solution represents a significant step in parliamentary surveillance of the defence portfolio in the Republic of Croatia. And the strengthening of parliamentary supervision within NATO and between its members has long been discussed as a very important topic. And in this sense, NATO Member States have different experiences and solutions. But everyone tends more or less to one goal, which is certainly strengthening the mechanism of parliamentary control over defence and security. In order to improve the functioning of the system, the nomotechnical and normative provisions of Articles 14 and 15 which prescribe the responsibilities of the Ministry of Defence and the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces and the composition of the Defence Council have been improved in relation to the draft law as it was in the first reading. The improvements were also introduced in the provisions concerning the military obligation and the provisions that speak about how, on the basis of the decision of the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic of Croatia referred to a request for assistance in the defence of the states of allies and gave power to the NATO's competent commander to conduct operations on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Which, of course, is an extremely important area that needs to be clear and very precisely defined by law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in The final proposal in a way that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are used to assist in the search and rescue on the basis of the request of the central authority responsible for the protection and rescue. In this way, the law regulates cooperation and regulates links between institutions of different competences and improves their communication. I especially mention this because it is a search and rescue or civilian vision where the Croatian military acts only as a help when the civil protection system is sub-suppressed. Other newspapers should also mention the provisions that speak about the reference, cooperation, training, action of members and troops of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, from which it is evident that it is precisely on interoperability that makes this Law very modern and in line with the modern demands of defence systems. The previous law was certainly less modern because it edited this portfolio at a time when the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia were quite isolated, when they came out of the Homeland War, they were not members of the NATO Alliance or of the European Union and the situation in the region was quite unstable and secure and political. Along with this Law, he came to us at the same time in the parliamentary procedure and the Law on the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, so I will leave the speaker to my colleague, Dunji Špoljar, on this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41357	Dear Vice-Presidents, ministers and deputies, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia needs more order to learn from the military. It was said at the ceremony academy on the occasion of the Day of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Day of the Land Army. Croatian soldiers have great experience and are members of an army of a democratic state that enters the European Union in which strict rules apply which we will have to get used to. This certainly contributes to the final bill before us on the service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which is more precisely governed by the provisions relating to voluntary military training and cadet service. Voluntary military training is prescribed to be directed by adult citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are selected after their application and sent to training by the end of the calendar year in which they are 29 years of age. Voluntary service is a condition for admission to the military service and for contractual reserve and for which basic military knowledge and skills are acquired for participation in the defence of the Republic of Croatia, or in the armed forces units of the Republic of Croatia. After successfully completed training programme according to the results of selected handbooks, the contract will be concluded to obtain the status of the active military person. The Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which regulates access to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, regulates the schedule, acts and promotions in acts of obligation, rights and responsibilities, the separation and termination of service and other status issues of members of the Armed Forces, is unfortunately 10 years old. And this final proposal is in line with the Constitution, above all with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the law, international war and humanitarian law and general and special rules of conduct. Thus, under current law in the service of the Armed Forces, soldiers signed contracts for a certain period of time. Thus, in the status of the active military personnel, it was possible to spend a maximum of 8 years. This proposal adds to the possibility of signing another contract, a military service contract for an additional 6 years, for a total of 14 years, so 3+5+6, a military service which, when the benefits of the service are included, reaches 20 years of employment in the service. After the conclusion of the second contract, an active soldier, or a sailor who has shown the ability to manage and command, may be chosen and, with personal consent, referred to the first level of honorary education, on the basis of the results achieved in the service, the satisfaction of health, mental, physical and safety conditions. It is the professional development that has been mostly regulated by sublaws so far, with this bill regulated. A new category of staff of military specialists has been developed as proposed in Article 46 of the final proposal. In addition, the provision governing salaries, salary allowances and other material rights of the active military person has been amended. The material rights of defence employees and thus active military personnel were based on a number of elements in the current law which are unsustainable due to large additional costs, but also on the fact that the Armed Forces are not functioning effectively. For example, working hours defined according to current law as in the Labour Act. It is clear that in the Armed Forces, it is impossible to organise work through an eight-hour working time provision. The expenditure, according to that basis, was unacceptablely high for overtime in the morh. The final proposal of the Armed Forces Act proposes to regulate working time, rest and permit. The Armed Forces Service is organized in a way that deals are done 24 hours a day. The working time shall be defined as the period during which a military person is required to carry out his duties according to the specified schedule of working time and the tasks of the authorised competent authority. Regardless of the crisis, the priorities are absolutely clear. Defence is important, and the Armed Forces in the developed democracy have a prominent position and reputation. Such status contributes to the preservation of professionalism, categorically defined internal relations and a clear structure for the sovereignty of the state to be protected. This law also makes a significant contribution to the SDP club will accept the Bill of Service in the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41358	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41359	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen representatives. The HDSSB Club will support these amendments to the law and we hope that these laws and these solutions that have been given to these laws will solve and accumulate problems in the defence system. It's not just working hours, and one of the bigger problems is working hours. Here I will refer to a colleague who has pointed out that I am a defence system and members of the Armed Forces, but the entire Croatian Army must also have the emphasis that the Armed Forces have a prominent position in the reputation of democratic societies. Here is also the call for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make a budget for 2014, and given everything that is going on and the economic situation, but also the invitation to the representatives when we write the amendments we most often touch the withdrawal of funds in the position of defence. And I think it would be good, and I would also like to commend exactly one broadly I would say the democratic debate that was led around these two laws, with a normal and one flaw. I believe that there has been enough time and I hope that this has not been done on purpose, that the procedure should still be respected and that the President of the Republic as the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces should have given his opinion on these two draft laws. I believe that given that the armed forces that both came through and the entire Croatian Army came out of the magnificent victory and the magnificent Homeland War that was defensive and just, precisely in view of the current situation in the Armed Forces, and given what the Armed Forces mean in the NATO system, but also in the defence system of the Republic of Croatia so that the Parliament itself would be here, but given again that it is also confidential matters that cannot be available and widely public, regardless of the civil oversight, regardless of democratic surveillance of the Armed Forces, but that we should definitely and should discuss, therefore, a broad debate on the situation in the Armed Forces, on the future of the Armed Forces, primarily bearing in mind the material situation. I don't mean trucks, I don't mean tools, artillery, or I don't know what, but first of all, about the whole material situation so that the defense system is definitely in NATO standards, and that this is how we Assembly representatives help solve these accumulated problems. Not to be of any longer hope that, as president of the Republic of Croatia as commander-in-chief, he will agree, no matter what he has not given his opinion now in this parliamentary debate, that he will also support these two laws and that these laws will solve the accumulated problems in the defence system and that he will also solve a certain material status of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, I think of the members of the Air Force and those signed contracts after completing their education, the promised apartments most of them haven't seen, let alone won. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41360	On behalf of HNS representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41361	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with his associates. The Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats will support both the laws and the Law on Defence, that is, the proposal of the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, primarily for the reasons that these are new laws, because these laws modernise the primary service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and make it more effective, efficient. And as far as the Defense Act itself is concerned, he gets one by myself, or by us, one more complete purpose and rounds the whole of what the Defence Act should and serve. If I didn't repeat myself and not repeat what my colleagues had already said, especially colleague Sandra Petrovic Jakovina, I would just like to highlight some of the emphasis on this debate on behalf of the club, and one very important security of the state for its survival, for its development. Without security, without peace there is no development and no systematic long-term development. Croatia is one country that has not had peace and security for more than 40 years, 45 years and every time after some major turbulence, we must rebuild the institutions. By entering Croatia into NATO, by liberating Croatia and then by joining Croatia in NATO and now by entering Croatia into the EU, Croatia is given the opportunity for long-term hope for a centuries of stability in which it can peacefully and concentratedly build its institutions and sovereignly develop all aspects of society. And surely one of the important roles is defense, or military. Joining NATO on 1 April 2009 Croatia has also increased its military defence capacities, and has contributed to the overall security of the International Community. The second thing I would like to stress is the role of the Parliament. In the HNS, we believe that the role of the Parliament is particularly in defence and in the army is in vain. We believe that the Parliament must assume all obligations and responsibilities arising from the Constitution, the Parliament and the law regarding the defence of the Republic of Croatia. And I think it is good that the legislator, i.e. the Ministry, is the government that has accepted certain remarks that have come from the Parliament itself, and I particularly think it is good that the chairman of the Defence Committee is also an integral part of the defence policy in the Republic of Croatia. The next thing we want to point out is the participation of our soldiers in international missions. We think it's random, that it's very important, that it's very good. We consider HNS, we don't, we think it doesn't matter how people live in other parts of the world. Our actions in Kosovo, and especially in Afghanistan, are actions that contribute to the democratisation of these countries, but also peace in the world. We all remember how much we were looking for in some situations and longed for help from abroad when aggression was committed in Croatia when we were in the Homeland War. We believe that the participation of our soldiers is important except that it contributes to world peace and democratisation that it is also important for the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia because this participation increases both the competences and knowledge of our soldiers. We believe that the army itself is much more than a soldier with a rifle on his shoulder. It includes practically the whole of society, there's a chance for the economy, and that's a chance for science for education, that's a chance for the overall development of society. We welcome this law and once again mentioning the HNS liberal Democrats will support it and one and another law will... support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41362	Thank you. We have another individual hearing reported. Dear colleague Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41363	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Madam Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Since I'm alone in an individual debate, I'm really going to be brief because my colleagues in the debates in front of the clubs have said more or less what we discussed today on the Defence Committee. So already in our first reading, we found that one and the other legislation was necessary in the light of all the changes that Croatia has made over the past ten years from NATO, so tomorrow I don't know EU members, so through all the missions under the auspices of the UN, NATO and Europe, the laws are simply a positive shift in the functioning of the defence system of the Armed Forces as part of it and as a whole and as part of NATO. What is to note is that the promoter has accepted indeed most of the remarks and the first-reading proposals that show that these laws deserve tomorrow by themselves when consensus is passed, so it is laws that simply shouldn't recognise party colors but should be what we can do at this point as a country. So I hope that, in some ways, the Government will do so through the budget regardless of how to valorise it, and then in the next budget, they will know the same thing about the Ministry of Defence, the Armed Forces and everything they are and what they need to be. I'll just say a few words, my colleague Ivić announced that the HDZ club will go out with the amendments, so it will really be amendments to what we see, some articles of the law, so technically we don't think that some things are necessary because they're regulated, I don't say they're just right, they might be regulated by international contracts of some things that we've spoken to committees that really if I can fix it, I think that Article 128 of the Armed Forces in case God doesn't let the active military person die, die because of the consequences of the service, etc. that in some ways compensation or family assistance could be increased regardless of the economic situation, because I say thank God we haven't had that kind of trouble so far. It should be said that these laws will solve the continuity of professional development that has so far been from today until tomorrow, what has been more of a pushover, so the management system of military personnel is very important and this law shows that it has been seeking this solution that will certainly make the whole functioning much easier. Like other colleagues, I am pleased to have arranged that the possibility of a third contract has been installed, so of six years, which will be for the best, the most capable is that the system has invested too much in them to leave them on the street after 8 years, first of all, without anything, and secondly, I think that at 20 years of age, with the benefits of a career that is still a beautiful round career. And finally here's what I'd say. I ask you to really look at the amendments and think about them the way they were sent for something if you think about improving anything else and here's how Mr. Ivić told me as a club we'll support both laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41364	Thank you. I ask if Minister Ante Kotromanovic will conclude? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41365	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to come from exactly what's most important, and these are amendments. I certainly thank you for the amendments and in the spirit of good cooperation that we have had before and that we will have in the future about the Defence and Defence Committee because we want to really enable that operational body to become a ministry at the source of information. You need to know what's going on inside, and we're going to periodically report to you what's most interesting, the purchase plans with the big projects, the key things, absolutely. We want to share information and share responsibility in such a way that we want everyone to be informed and it concerns all of us. And I fully support this attitude to be a consensus. These are not political laws, these are laws concerning defence, the Armed Forces, and I must tell you that we are doing so, that we have not looked at the interest of any party, nor the other party, nor the office of the president, nor the Ministry of Defence nor the principal headquarters, but we have looked exclusively in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and the exclusive interest and position that the ministry has within it. I hope, and I really want to thank you very much for your help and for your cooperation, I especially say to the Defence Committee and to all the members who have been very correct and we are absolutely here for any future joint talks and agreements regarding all the projects that we are working on in the ministry. We'll look at the amendments and we'll be happy to accept everything we think is fine, absolutely. We saw now in a hurry here so we could accept something. We understand Article 128. We want to increase and we will increase, we will see what we can do only as much as we can. We don't think what the MUP did is real. But good, but we have, and it's different with us, okay. Either way, we're gonna, we're gonna, we're gonna think, and we're about to at least increase that by double. So we'll see what we can do, do for everyone. We will have an annual report very soon, we referred it to the government, we will have the opportunity to discuss and he suggested by fellow Vinkovic, a deeper debate on the situation in the Armed Forces. Absolutely our armed forces, our armed forces. We have nothing to hide, nothing to hide. We want, everyone here we want, it's good to hear the uniform to be, to be better, to be better, to be better, to be better, to be better, to be good, to be good, to be good. So we're going to, so we've come up with an annual report in a way that is correct, objective, with all the faults and virtues we have. We're aware of Mana, and we're always looking for help in how certain things to remove how to put on a better, better level that we have. Here I am, once again thank you very much for your help, thank you very much for your discussion. And it will really make it possible for us to function better, faster, better than the Armed Forces after these laws. And headquarters, so the entire headquarters will be easier for them to work, it'll be easier for us to manage a system that's costing us a lot of things because of the laws we've had so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41366	I would like to thank Minister Kotromanovic, Deputy Tafrey. That concludes the debate on the text of the law. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41367	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law on Defence, Second Reading, PZ No. 243, the debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club in the Croatian Parliament. I'd like a representative of the motionary's respected Deputy Defence Minister, Vishny Tafra, to be seen. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41368	Amendment No 1 of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 3(8) The final proposal for a defence law is not accepted. The applicant does not accept the amendment for the reason that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the final proposal for a law on defence has regulated the definition of the power of command and supervision in relation to what is proposed to the above-mentioned amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41369	Dear Representative Milas, on behalf of the promoter of the Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41370	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Deputy, exactly, Article 3 defines the concepts used in this law and our opinion is that the key concept is the notion of command and the very very essence of command is the authority from which the right to command arises, and supervision itself is an integral part of the command. So we think that the definition stemming from NATO documents, and it has a foothold in this law too, in Article 70(4) and (5), is good, so we need to change the item and put only the concept of command. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41371	Please state the amendment number 1 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 2 of the same club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41372	Amendment 2 to the HDZ Representatives Club shall apply to Article 50. Final proposal for a defense law. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment shall not be accepted for the reason why the proposed provision of the final proposal for a law on defence has been laid down in the provision of Article 7. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the prescribed procedure provided for in the cases of requests for assistance in the defence of the Republic of Croatia to allies. We believe that it is insufficient and excessive to prescribe that the participation of Allied States in the defence of the Republic of Croatia should be carried out in accordance with the concluded international contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41373	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected representative Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41374	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So we think differently, we think that the formulation of the article 50, that is, its title "Participation of Allied States in the Defence of the Republic of Croatia" is quite enough. Namely, the attack on any NATO member is an attack on the NATO Alliance, and there are documents that state what policy measures should be taken, i.e. there are international agreements and the Republic of Croatia, that is, the President of the Republic participates as a full representative, and it is increasingly clear. We think this is as we suggested much simpler, much better, and that's why we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41375	Thank you very much. Please state who is for the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club, which the government does not accept. Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. and amendment number 3 of the same club of representatives to Article 61.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41376	Amendment 3 to the HDZ Representatives Club shall apply to Article 61(4). The final proposal for a defence law is not accepted. Armed forces of the Republic of Croatia that can be used to assist in fire protection and search and rescue. If the authorities responsible for fire protection, i.e. the authorities responsible for the search and rescue do not have adequate means and capabilities, as well as for the transport of incurred and ill. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia are also used as aid in fire protection in accordance with the annual plan adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces to assist in the search and rescue are used on the basis of the request of the central authority of the State Administration responsible for the protection and rescue. Therefore, this is about making an implementing decision on the use of the Armed Forces in those activities taken by the defence minister or by the person empowered by him in accordance with the provisions of this law and the proposed amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41377	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative, Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41378	Thank you. The HDZ Club believes that such a provision is rather vague. In fact, we believe that the defence minister should definitely be the one without transferring powers to anyone because Article 58(3) speaks of decisions on the use of the Armed Forces being carried out through the command of the Chief Staff. So the Chief of Staff is the one who implements what the minister orders and we don't think the Minister should be given permission to pass it on to other persons he determines. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41379	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number three of the HDZ Representatives Clubs which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most 99 votes in favour of, 4 abstentions were passed by the Defence Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41380	Our colleagues and colleagues would now unite: - Final proposal of the Defence Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 243; - Final proposal of the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 244; After the discussion of these two proposals has been completed, we would continue with the laws relating to finance from point 9. So, the proposer of these laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action in boxes. In the case of the adoption of these laws, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee, and you received reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, the laws will be introduced by Defence Minister Ante Kotromanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41381	Madam Vice President of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here after a long time, after almost two years I will return to the Parliament here but in another capacity. As Vice President of the Parliament said today, we have two laws. So the Final Proposal for a Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Final Proposal for the Defence Act. We had a debate this morning, a very good debate on the Defence Committee, and in one way we've been through all these things, and so I'm going to be able to say a relatively short one. Certainly before the transition to these two laws, I must point out that, let everyone know that here in Parliament, that, in the drafting of the Law on Defence, the Service Act, we had great cooperation with the Defence Committee, where, at the head of it, our colleague, Ivić and all the representatives, with all the representatives that we had had a good debate, that we had repeatedly communicated and presented..., that many of the comments of the Defence Committee had been respected and that made us happy in the sense that this was a joint work, a transparent work, a democratic work on the creation of two laws that were very important and important to us for the functioning of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the Defence Act is concerned, there is a final draft of the law before you, following the adoption of the proposed law in the first reading after the debate we held on the law at the working bodies' sessions, at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, at the the thematic session of the Defence Committee, which was held at our Ministry of Defence after the first reading, we prepared a final draft of the law. The proposed law first and foremost represents a alignment with the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which redefines the role, tasks and actions of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed law regulates the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic as commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence and the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces in the area of defence. As you know, these two laws were last written in 2002 and it was simply time for them to comply with the Constitution, to facilitate in one way the functioning of the Armed Forces in a better and better way. The legislative proposal regulates the command, use and use of the Armed Forces to assist in fire protection, rescue and surveillance and protection of the rights of the Republic of Croatia at sea through the Coast Guard. The law prescribes the composition and jurisdiction of the Defence Council, as well as the jurisdiction of the Defence Inspectorate, I am talking about the Defence Act. The proposed law regulates military obligations as well as other duties and rights of citizens in defence. In order to ensure continued training of the appropriate number of citizens for military defence, the possibility of voluntary and military training, which also allows women, shall be arranged to ensure that basic military knowledge and skills are acquired, i.e. an equal competition for admission into the active composition of the Armed Forces. About 15 days ago, you saw that we had a competition for the best Army soldier and we also had a member of the Armed Forces who out of 105 employees, so she competed alone as a woman and was 19. So we stick to it and encourage equal treatment within the system itself. Military service, or civil service, is mandatory under the law in the event of a situation of immediate threat or war. The Croatian Parliament may decide on the introduction of a military service obligation, or civil service. The proposed law lays down specific areas within the competence of the Armed Forces to which specific laws are referred, such as the jurisdiction of authorised military police officers, the jurisdiction in the field of military, air and maritime transport, as well as matters relating to military construction and spatial planning in military locations. The Defence Act also proposes to regulate material care and defence financing. As we had a good and constructive discussion and dialogue during the writing of these two laws, and in accordance with the comments of the Defence Committee and of certain clubs of MPs, a provision was incorporated during the first reading of the law in such a way that this final proposal prescribed the competence of the home working body, that is, the Defence Committee, to give an opinion to the Ministry of Defence for Public Procurement Procedures in the area of defence value greater than 5 million euros. So we absolutely support this proposal, our goal as well as yours is likely to ensure full and transparent supervision and to strengthen the role of the Parliament and, in particular, the Committee in the Democratic Oversight of the Ministry of Defence, and this is a good step and good practice, and through a few things, we have strengthened the position of the Parliament and the Defence Committee and I have gladly accepted it. I think it's an excellent way and a way to be better and better quality in further our work, of course. In 2012, the year was the decision and preparation of major projects at the Ministry of Defence, the remont of planes and helicopters and the preparation of procedures that precede the construction of coastal... ships for the needs of the Coast Guard which are these days ahead of the realisation of the treaty. As Minister of Defence, I point out in many places, and I also address the public through the media, and today it is my special honor to point out in front of this House that you all need to know about these procedures all, that all these procedures must be visible, clearly placed and transparent. In line with the views of the Defence Committee, the provision of a final proposal for a defence law has been amended in such a way that it is prescribed that it is a member of the Defence Council and the chairman of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. It's a newspaper, we didn't have it in the Defense Act before, and we think it's a good thing that the chairman of the Defence Committee is in the Defence Council when he meets and talks about important matters in the field of defence. In the part of the provisions laying down the powers of the Ministry of Defence and the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces, the amendments in relation to the draft law relate to certain nomotechnical improvements. In order to implement this law, resources in the state budget shall be provided at the position of the Ministry of Defence and no additional financial resources shall be necessary for its implementation. So we believe that this normative arrangement will contribute to further progress, the process of transforming the Armed Forces into... small but good, equipped and effective forces capable of carrying out assigned missions and tasks. As far as the Service Act is concerned, after 10 years of application of the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with its novels, it has proved necessary to amend certain legal solutions or to amend them in a different way to better support the reform and development of the Armed Forces. For many years I have been in the Armed Forces system, for many years I have been in command, and this law has been in many ways, the Law of Service on which we are particularly happy to adopt it in the Croatian Parliament and to support that, it is simply time to write a new one. The old law has been holding us back in many ways, he's been holding back... The Croatian Army. I said on the board example today. We've had a lawsuit, let's say we have a lot of lawsuits based on the old Service Act and we have to set aside about 75 to 80 million kunas per year on behalf of the lawsuits that come to us every day because we've been applying a collective law in the Service Act where he said that the soldier works eight hours. It's for a professional soldier simply not allowed. We had a lawsuit from Afghanistan a few months ago where our member of the Armed Forces sued the Ministry of Defense because he thinks it's working time to 4, and of 4-5 for excessive mentoring of Afghan security forces, and that's where it went, and that law tells us very important and important. We've brought in a series of things. We also had excellent cooperation with outside board members, with active board members. It's a good thing we have in the Committee on the Defence of People who were in the system, who were in charge of jobs, which were in important places, by General Stipetic, by General Medved, General Tus and other outside members, especially because these were former colleagues who gave us a really good basis for discussion and we are together with active members, so with MPs had this good discussion and we have introduced a number of new changes within the law. So the goal of this law is to be more efficient, to be better. We propose to regulate access to services, schedules, we propose to resolve the acts of how to resolve promotion, obligations, rights, responsibilities,... and other status issues of members. The proposed law also includes newspapers relating to a new category of persons, which are military specialists. It's very important and important to us. It's a union request, we've respected it, and that way we'll make it possible for all those people who matter to us, who work on important jobs like the gunman we can't get someone from the market, we need an experienced man. We'll make it possible for him from the status of the tenant or employee to become a military specialist no matter how old he is, what kind of professional he is preparing because we want that man to stay as long in the system as possible. In those specialists other than the special expertise necessary for the conduct of the military specialist's duties, general reception conditions for the military service must also be met. Thus, the current law prescribes that these issues which are not governed by the law or regulations adopted under that law apply rules on civil servants and tenants, general labour regulations or collective agreements concluded in accordance with that law. So the proposed law leaves this extension and suggests that future rights from military relations be explicitly regulated by this law. The final draft of the law is more precise provisions relating to voluntary military training and cadet service. And here we are going to a small reform of complete education and we hope that in 2014 we will have a whole new system that will allow a much better and better quality officer for Armed Forces. This law stipulates that voluntary military training is directed by adult citizens of the Republic of Croatia who apply voluntarily, are selected and directed to training by the end of the calendar year, who are 29 years of age. In accordance with the needs of the service, the Ministry of Defence may conclude a third military service contract for a period of 6 years, in accordance with the needs of the service. The current law said we have a 3+5, first contract on three, second contract on five. We also decided to make it possible for these soldiers to stay longer because these are the people we, we've invested a lot in and they're getting schooled, they're real special forces. And now we will allow these people to get up to 20 years of active service of the Ministry of Defence, and in parallel with Miranda Mrsic, we are working on making it possible for these people to have a minimum pension after 20 years and to work further in society and the system as needed and as they are interested. So, the proposed law regulates the schedule of military duties to be determined by a joint or individual decision on the schedule of soldiers and officers of the deployed... the Staff of the Armed Forces or persons... So the proposed law requires the powers of the schedule for officers, or generals, admirals who, in accordance with the provisions of the law... are not appointed by the President of the Republic. So, also for the implementation of this law, there is no need to provide additional resources and it can go means in the procedure immediately. After the adoption of these laws and after the adoption of these laws, there is a big deal ahead of us, it is to arrange a series of regulations, a series of sublegal acts of the Ministry of Defence. We've already made a hodogram of activity so we're not late with these things. We need to get these newspapers into the system as soon as possible because it concerns the Armed Forces first and foremost. Thank you very much, gentlemen, and I'd like so much for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41382	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41383	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister and Madam Deputy. The HDZ Club will support both the laws and the Law on Defence and the Law on Service in the Armed Forces, regardless of our serious objection to non-compliance with the procedure for the adoption of the law. At its meeting on 24 May, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the Final Proposal of the Law on Defence and the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces, without the prior opinion of the President of the Republic, although in the Law on Defence in Article 7(2), paragraph 25, I quote: "The Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces gives a preliminary opinion on the proposals of acts in the area of defence brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament." Therefore, no standard procedure is respected and in such cases, which is not good, especially respecting the fact that the previous opinion is not binding. Therefore, the President of the Republic sent a preliminary opinion directly to the Croatian Parliament. It would certainly be good to bring the final draft of the law into line with the views of the Government and the President of the Republic, especially since the President of the Republic and the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces. The reference is also to a long period that has passed between the first and second readings. The first reading was held on January 30th of this year, so nearly 4.5 months ago, which is really too long, regardless of the proposal that the various views and opinions of the ministry, the Head of Staff, the president of the Republic of Croatia, the Union, the Defence Committee are really in line. As a result, they did not have a number of members of the Armed Forces who had expired a professional contract in a position to wait without a contract for the adoption of the law so that they could eventually receive a third professional service contract in the Armed Forces. We consider both laws to be good, that there are significant improvements to existing legal provisions. It is particularly good that a significant number of remarks and proposals made in the first reading and on the Defence Committee as well as at the plenary session have been accepted. It is also good that a good part of the union proposal is accepted and included in the final draft law. We welcome that the bill includes a proposal to strengthen the role of the Parliament and the Parliamentary Defence Committee in such a way as to require the opinion of the Defence Committee for Public Procurement Procedures in the area of defence value greater than 5m euros and that members of the Defence Council are also the president of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament, which certainly contributes to a more successful democratic surveillance of the armed forces. In relation to first reading, the positive relationship between the Ministry of Defence and the Chief Staff is significant, which can contribute to a more successful functioning of the overall system. When it comes to the Armed Forces Service Act, we particularly welcome the legal possibility to conclude a 3rd professional 6-year contract for all those who meet the conditions which are a significant improvement because under the current law, professional soldiers had the possibility to conclude only two contracts on a 3+5-year period. The HDZ Club is of the opinion that the proposed provisions of the law can be improved and added and we will propose several amendments. Our desire and goal is to pass good laws, without any daily political interest, because these are key laws of defence and national security. And finally, I would like to say that when the final bill was drawn up, therefore, in this period between the first and second readings, it was a good communication with the Ministry of Defence and the present desire on both sides to make good bill proposals, and this also resulted in the fact that they were accepted as I have said a number of proposals that were also on the Defence Committee, which were also at the plenary session of the Parliament, but also the proposals that came from the Chief Staff of the Union, which is for each commendation, and I think that this is a good way to go especially when it comes to key laws, and there is no doubt that the Law on Defence and the Law on Service in the Armed Forces are really crucial laws when it comes to defence and national security of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41384	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, a colleague of Sandra Petrovic-Jakovina and Dunja Špoljar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41385	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable ministers, respected deputy ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Here in the Croatian Parliament, following a debate on the proposal for a law on defence in the first reading, which was held there on 30 January this year, it was concluded that the comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate were given to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the law. First of all, it is necessary to say that the current Defence Act was first passed back in 2002, so 11 years ago, since then it has only been amended several times, the most significant of which was in 2007, and the last time it was not until 2009. However, these changes were not more significant in nature than in 2007 which was necessary in order to meet the conditions for establishing international cooperation and interoperability in the NATO collective defence system, which we were then preparing to join. Therefore, given the fact that so many older breeds are the law, we consider it necessary and logical to approach in this way a detailed and extensive discussion of the text of the Law on the Defence of Proposers together with all relevant institutions whose powers in the defence portfolio stem from this law, that therefore new legislation has been approached, because these two laws that we have today are on the agenda of an outdated period of time and that in practice the problems in the functioning of the Armed Forces are already being brought into practice. The fundamental law of defence resistors is in front of us in the second reading, it represents a series of newspapers, and we think that it is well prepared to agree on all the essential elements of all the subjects, which is very important, and what is also formally important came as a final proposal for a new law rather than as amendments and additions to the Defence Act. Generally speaking, the new Defence Act is a alignment with the new position of the Armed Forces within NATO, within the EU system and no less important alignment with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Since we had the opportunity to make our remarks in the first reading of the law, suggestions and opinions to the promoter might be good for us to mention in the second reading which are respected and which make up the final draft of the law. First of all, the text of the provision of Article 1 of the final proposal for a law replacing the words democratic control with the words democratic supervision. It is in line with the Croatian term and content of the institute. The final proposal in Article 6 also provides for an important competence of the parent body of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament and an opinion on public procurement procedures in the area of defence value of more than 5 billion euros. Why does it matter? Parliamentary oversight of public procurement procedures is a galloping area in all democracies. Where public procurement in the area of security and defence affairs is of particular interest to the public. Because the amounts of public procurement are very high because investment in the military is done periodically and very carefully and in practice, not only with us but also in neighbouring countries. These public procurements are very often speculative. In the part prescribed by the responsibilities of the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the new provision is complemented by the new provision which prescribes that he appoints and relieves the military personnel in office in the military cabinet of the President of the Republic of Croatia, which is the establishment unit of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia. What was agreed by almost all clubs in the first reading is another form of strengthening parliamentary oversight in the Defence Act. And this is that a member of the Defence Council should also be appointed president of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. This solution represents a significant step in parliamentary surveillance of the defence portfolio in the Republic of Croatia. And the strengthening of parliamentary supervision within NATO and between its members has long been discussed as a very important topic. And in this sense, NATO Member States have different experiences and solutions. But everyone tends more or less to one goal, which is certainly strengthening the mechanism of parliamentary control over defence and security. In order to improve the functioning of the system, the nomotechnical and normative provisions of Articles 14 and 15 which prescribe the responsibilities of the Ministry of Defence and the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces and the composition of the Defence Council have been improved in relation to the draft law as it was in the first reading. The improvements were also introduced in the provisions concerning the military obligation and the provisions that speak about how, on the basis of the decision of the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic of Croatia referred to a request for assistance in the defence of the states of allies and gave power to the NATO's competent commander to conduct operations on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Which, of course, is an extremely important area that needs to be clear and very precisely defined by law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in The final proposal in a way that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are used to assist in the search and rescue on the basis of the request of the central authority responsible for the protection and rescue. In this way, the law regulates cooperation and regulates links between institutions of different competences and improves their communication. I especially mention this because it is a search and rescue or civilian vision where the Croatian military acts only as a help when the civil protection system is sub-suppressed. Other newspapers should also mention the provisions that speak about the reference, cooperation, training, action of members and troops of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, from which it is evident that it is precisely on interoperability that makes this Law very modern and in line with the modern demands of defence systems. The previous law was certainly less modern because it edited this portfolio at a time when the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia were quite isolated, when they came out of the Homeland War, they were not members of the NATO Alliance or of the European Union and the situation in the region was quite unstable and secure and political. Along with this Law, he came to us at the same time in the parliamentary procedure and the Law on the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, so I will leave the speaker to my colleague, Dunji Špoljar, on this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41386	Dear Vice-Presidents, ministers and deputies, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia needs more order to learn from the military. It was said at the ceremony academy on the occasion of the Day of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Day of the Land Army. Croatian soldiers have great experience and are members of an army of a democratic state that enters the European Union in which strict rules apply which we will have to get used to. This certainly contributes to the final bill before us on the service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which is more precisely governed by the provisions relating to voluntary military training and cadet service. Voluntary military training is prescribed to be directed by adult citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are selected after their application and sent to training by the end of the calendar year in which they are 29 years of age. Voluntary service is a condition for admission to the military service and for contractual reserve and for which basic military knowledge and skills are acquired for participation in the defence of the Republic of Croatia, or in the armed forces units of the Republic of Croatia. After successfully completed training programme according to the results of selected handbooks, the contract will be concluded to obtain the status of the active military person. The Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which regulates access to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, regulates the schedule, acts and promotions in acts of obligation, rights and responsibilities, the separation and termination of service and other status issues of members of the Armed Forces, is unfortunately 10 years old. And this final proposal is in line with the Constitution, above all with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the law, international war and humanitarian law and general and special rules of conduct. Thus, under current law in the service of the Armed Forces, soldiers signed contracts for a certain period of time. Thus, in the status of the active military personnel, it was possible to spend a maximum of 8 years. This proposal adds to the possibility of signing another contract, a military service contract for an additional 6 years, for a total of 14 years, so 3+5+6, a military service which, when the benefits of the service are included, reaches 20 years of employment in the service. After the conclusion of the second contract, an active soldier, or a sailor who has shown the ability to manage and command, may be chosen and, with personal consent, referred to the first level of honorary education, on the basis of the results achieved in the service, the satisfaction of health, mental, physical and safety conditions. It is the professional development that has been mostly regulated by sublaws so far, with this bill regulated. A new category of staff of military specialists has been developed as proposed in Article 46 of the final proposal. In addition, the provision governing salaries, salary allowances and other material rights of the active military person has been amended. The material rights of defence employees and thus active military personnel were based on a number of elements in the current law which are unsustainable due to large additional costs, but also on the fact that the Armed Forces are not functioning effectively. For example, working hours defined according to current law as in the Labour Act. It is clear that in the Armed Forces, it is impossible to organise work through an eight-hour working time provision. The expenditure, according to that basis, was unacceptablely high for overtime in the morh. The final proposal of the Armed Forces Act proposes to regulate working time, rest and permit. The Armed Forces Service is organized in a way that deals are done 24 hours a day. The working time shall be defined as the period during which a military person is required to carry out his duties according to the specified schedule of working time and the tasks of the authorised competent authority. Regardless of the crisis, the priorities are absolutely clear. Defence is important, and the Armed Forces in the developed democracy have a prominent position and reputation. Such status contributes to the preservation of professionalism, categorically defined internal relations and a clear structure for the sovereignty of the state to be protected. This law also makes a significant contribution to the SDP club will accept the Bill of Service in the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41387	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41388	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen representatives. The HDSSB Club will support these amendments to the law and we hope that these laws and these solutions that have been given to these laws will solve and accumulate problems in the defence system. It's not just working hours, and one of the bigger problems is working hours. Here I will refer to a colleague who has pointed out that I am a defence system and members of the Armed Forces, but the entire Croatian Army must also have the emphasis that the Armed Forces have a prominent position in the reputation of democratic societies. Here is also the call for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make a budget for 2014, and given everything that is going on and the economic situation, but also the invitation to the representatives when we write the amendments we most often touch the withdrawal of funds in the position of defence. And I think it would be good, and I would also like to commend exactly one broadly I would say the democratic debate that was led around these two laws, with a normal and one flaw. I believe that there has been enough time and I hope that this has not been done on purpose, that the procedure should still be respected and that the President of the Republic as the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces should have given his opinion on these two draft laws. I believe that given that the armed forces that both came through and the entire Croatian Army came out of the magnificent victory and the magnificent Homeland War that was defensive and just, precisely in view of the current situation in the Armed Forces, and given what the Armed Forces mean in the NATO system, but also in the defence system of the Republic of Croatia so that the Parliament itself would be here, but given again that it is also confidential matters that cannot be available and widely public, regardless of the civil oversight, regardless of democratic surveillance of the Armed Forces, but that we should definitely and should discuss, therefore, a broad debate on the situation in the Armed Forces, on the future of the Armed Forces, primarily bearing in mind the material situation. I don't mean trucks, I don't mean tools, artillery, or I don't know what, but first of all, about the whole material situation so that the defense system is definitely in NATO standards, and that this is how we Assembly representatives help solve these accumulated problems. Not to be of any longer hope that, as president of the Republic of Croatia as commander-in-chief, he will agree, no matter what he has not given his opinion now in this parliamentary debate, that he will also support these two laws and that these laws will solve the accumulated problems in the defence system and that he will also solve a certain material status of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, I think of the members of the Air Force and those signed contracts after completing their education, the promised apartments most of them haven't seen, let alone won. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41389	On behalf of HNS representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41390	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with his associates. The Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats will support both the laws and the Law on Defence, that is, the proposal of the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, primarily for the reasons that these are new laws, because these laws modernise the primary service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and make it more effective, efficient. And as far as the Defense Act itself is concerned, he gets one by myself, or by us, one more complete purpose and rounds the whole of what the Defence Act should and serve. If I didn't repeat myself and not repeat what my colleagues had already said, especially colleague Sandra Petrovic Jakovina, I would just like to highlight some of the emphasis on this debate on behalf of the club, and one very important security of the state for its survival, for its development. Without security, without peace there is no development and no systematic long-term development. Croatia is one country that has not had peace and security for more than 40 years, 45 years and every time after some major turbulence, we must rebuild the institutions. By entering Croatia into NATO, by liberating Croatia and then by joining Croatia in NATO and now by entering Croatia into the EU, Croatia is given the opportunity for long-term hope for a centuries of stability in which it can peacefully and concentratedly build its institutions and sovereignly develop all aspects of society. And surely one of the important roles is defense, or military. Joining NATO on 1 April 2009 Croatia has also increased its military defence capacities, and has contributed to the overall security of the International Community. The second thing I would like to stress is the role of the Parliament. In the HNS, we believe that the role of the Parliament is particularly in defence and in the army is in vain. We believe that the Parliament must assume all obligations and responsibilities arising from the Constitution, the Parliament and the law regarding the defence of the Republic of Croatia. And I think it is good that the legislator, i.e. the Ministry, is the government that has accepted certain remarks that have come from the Parliament itself, and I particularly think it is good that the chairman of the Defence Committee is also an integral part of the defence policy in the Republic of Croatia. The next thing we want to point out is the participation of our soldiers in international missions. We think it's random, that it's very important, that it's very good. We consider HNS, we don't, we think it doesn't matter how people live in other parts of the world. Our actions in Kosovo, and especially in Afghanistan, are actions that contribute to the democratisation of these countries, but also peace in the world. We all remember how much we were looking for in some situations and longed for help from abroad when aggression was committed in Croatia when we were in the Homeland War. We believe that the participation of our soldiers is important except that it contributes to world peace and democratisation that it is also important for the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia because this participation increases both the competences and knowledge of our soldiers. We believe that the army itself is much more than a soldier with a rifle on his shoulder. It includes practically the whole of society, there's a chance for the economy, and that's a chance for science for education, that's a chance for the overall development of society. We welcome this law and once again mentioning the HNS liberal Democrats will support it and one and another law will... support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41391	Thank you. We have another individual hearing reported. Dear colleague Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41392	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Madam Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Since I'm alone in an individual debate, I'm really going to be brief because my colleagues in the debates in front of the clubs have said more or less what we discussed today on the Defence Committee. So already in our first reading, we found that one and the other legislation was necessary in the light of all the changes that Croatia has made over the past ten years from NATO, so tomorrow I don't know EU members, so through all the missions under the auspices of the UN, NATO and Europe, the laws are simply a positive shift in the functioning of the defence system of the Armed Forces as part of it and as a whole and as part of NATO. What is to note is that the promoter has accepted indeed most of the remarks and the first-reading proposals that show that these laws deserve tomorrow by themselves when consensus is passed, so it is laws that simply shouldn't recognise party colors but should be what we can do at this point as a country. So I hope that, in some ways, the Government will do so through the budget regardless of how to valorise it, and then in the next budget, they will know the same thing about the Ministry of Defence, the Armed Forces and everything they are and what they need to be. I'll just say a few words, my colleague Ivić announced that the HDZ club will go out with the amendments, so it will really be amendments to what we see, some articles of the law, so technically we don't think that some things are necessary because they're regulated, I don't say they're just right, they might be regulated by international contracts of some things that we've spoken to committees that really if I can fix it, I think that Article 128 of the Armed Forces in case God doesn't let the active military person die, die because of the consequences of the service, etc. that in some ways compensation or family assistance could be increased regardless of the economic situation, because I say thank God we haven't had that kind of trouble so far. It should be said that these laws will solve the continuity of professional development that has so far been from today until tomorrow, what has been more of a pushover, so the management system of military personnel is very important and this law shows that it has been seeking this solution that will certainly make the whole functioning much easier. Like other colleagues, I am pleased to have arranged that the possibility of a third contract has been installed, so of six years, which will be for the best, the most capable is that the system has invested too much in them to leave them on the street after 8 years, first of all, without anything, and secondly, I think that at 20 years of age, with the benefits of a career that is still a beautiful round career. And finally here's what I'd say. I ask you to really look at the amendments and think about them the way they were sent for something if you think about improving anything else and here's how Mr. Ivić told me as a club we'll support both laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41393	Thank you. I ask if Minister Ante Kotromanovic will conclude? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41394	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to come from exactly what's most important, and these are amendments. I certainly thank you for the amendments and in the spirit of good cooperation that we have had before and that we will have in the future about the Defence and Defence Committee because we want to really enable that operational body to become a ministry at the source of information. You need to know what's going on inside, and we're going to periodically report to you what's most interesting, the purchase plans with the big projects, the key things, absolutely. We want to share information and share responsibility in such a way that we want everyone to be informed and it concerns all of us. And I fully support this attitude to be a consensus. These are not political laws, these are laws concerning defence, the Armed Forces, and I must tell you that we are doing so, that we have not looked at the interest of any party, nor the other party, nor the office of the president, nor the Ministry of Defence nor the principal headquarters, but we have looked exclusively in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and the exclusive interest and position that the ministry has within it. I hope, and I really want to thank you very much for your help and for your cooperation, I especially say to the Defence Committee and to all the members who have been very correct and we are absolutely here for any future joint talks and agreements regarding all the projects that we are working on in the ministry. We'll look at the amendments and we'll be happy to accept everything we think is fine, absolutely. We saw now in a hurry here so we could accept something. We understand Article 128. We want to increase and we will increase, we will see what we can do only as much as we can. We don't think what the MUP did is real. But good, but we have, and it's different with us, okay. Either way, we're gonna, we're gonna, we're gonna think, and we're about to at least increase that by double. So we'll see what we can do, do for everyone. We will have an annual report very soon, we referred it to the government, we will have the opportunity to discuss and he suggested by fellow Vinkovic, a deeper debate on the situation in the Armed Forces. Absolutely our armed forces, our armed forces. We have nothing to hide, nothing to hide. We want, everyone here we want, it's good to hear the uniform to be, to be better, to be better, to be better, to be better, to be better, to be good, to be good, to be good. So we're going to, so we've come up with an annual report in a way that is correct, objective, with all the faults and virtues we have. We're aware of Mana, and we're always looking for help in how certain things to remove how to put on a better, better level that we have. Here I am, once again thank you very much for your help, thank you very much for your discussion. And it will really make it possible for us to function better, faster, better than the Armed Forces after these laws. And headquarters, so the entire headquarters will be easier for them to work, it'll be easier for us to manage a system that's costing us a lot of things because of the laws we've had so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41395	I would like to thank Minister Kotromanovic, Deputy Tafrey. That concludes the debate on the text of the law. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41396	Next Final Bill of Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 244. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 103 votes, we have accepted the government's proposal to discuss and decide its amendments. I would like to ask the representative of the Proposer, Honored Vishnja Tafra, Deputy Defence Minister to explain Amendment No 1. Governments of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41397	This is an amendment to Article 51. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Furthermore, the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was also in Article 128(1). Final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41398	Please. Wait a minute. We need to open a debate on Amendment number one, so I am opening a debate on Amendment number one of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Any interest? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on amendment number one of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Does anyone have any abstentions? What's the score? I find that unanimously with 103 votes for the accepted amendment number one of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and has become an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number two of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'd like to ask the deputy minister of honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41399	Amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Article 128(1) The final proposal for a law of service in the Armed Forces refers to an increase in the amount of the budget base for active military persons who die or die from injuries obtained as a result of the behaviour of the service by replacing the proposed six budgetary bases with the words "in the amount of 12 budgetary bases".
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41400	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on amendment number two of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting amendments number two of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 102 votes to accept amendment number two of the Governments of the Republic of Croatia, we have become an integral part of the final draft of the law. We are now moving on to the amendments of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41401	Amendment number one club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community under Article 7(3). The final proposal for a service law in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41402	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number two of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41403	Amendment of two Clubs of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community to Article 128(1) The final proposal for a service law in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is not accepted for the reason that the Government has raised its amendment 6 budget bases to 12, and the HDZ Club has proposed that it be 24.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41404	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative, Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41405	Thank you, Mr. President. So on behalf of the club, I thank you for listening in some way and accepting our amendment in a certain way and accepting our argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41406	You're withdrawing your amendment? Thank you very much. We're going to amendment number three of the same club representatives. Dear Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41407	Amendment of the three Clubs of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community to Article 150 The final proposal of the Law on Service in the Armed Forces is not accepted for the reason that the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers Article 150. The final proposal for a service law in the Armed Forces detailed the right to feed military persons and civil servants and subsistences, the right to their free meal and subsidized nutrition, and the amendment in the proposed form cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41408	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Proposer Club, Honorable Representative Zvonko Milas, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41409	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, we've been in charge of the fact that the diet for military employees has always been, therefore, without discrimination. We think that the abolition of the right to a free diet of a part of the active military personnel who came back a few years after the amendments to the law caused negative effects and we think that should be equated because they are all deployed without their will to places that have certain dangers from the service and all that, to which they must respond in terms of service as it is. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41410	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number of three clubs of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. That's how we exhausted the amendment list. Please, I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 100 votes for and 3 abstentions have been passed by the Armed Forces Service Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41411	We move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 386; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. And amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41412	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act with the Final Proposal of the Law. Amendments to the Foreign Exchange Act shall be adopted in order to allow for the implementation of the European Union Regulation, as the European Union regulations will be directly applicable on the date of accession in national legislation. This Law creates a framework allowing for the implementation of Regulation No. 1889/2005. on the control of the cash entered into the Community and derived from the Community by determining the customs administration as the competent authority applying for the transfer of cash of 10 000 euros or more when entering the European Union and bringing it out of the European Union via the Republic of Croatia and by prescribing appropriate sanctions in non-compliance with the obligation to register. A mandatory written form of application for registration under the agreement of the working group of the European Commission for the control of cash in the application of a single form for the notification of the transfer of cash has also been prescribed on the basis of the proposal from the Customs Administration. The application of Regulation No 2182/2004 also applies. on medallions and tokens similar to the euro coins and regulations of the European Union 2183/2004. the basis for which this Regulation applies to non-participating Member States and the regulation of the duties of natural and legal persons who sell in the Republic of Croatia imports or distribute medallions and tokens to send suspicious copies to the Croatian People's Bank and by prescribing the procedures of the Croatian National Bank with received medals and tokens in a way that sends them to the European Commission for obvious purposes. Then he delivers the evidence to the people who handed medals and tokens for insight. The applicable law is also in line with domestic legislation, criminal law, criminal law, the Law on the Croatian National Bank and the Law on the implementation of the customs rules of the European Union and in order to relieve entrepreneurs of the obligation to conduct a supervisory book on current foreign affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41413	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. But the debate and I conclude because no one signed up for that debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41414	The following is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 386. The debate on the final proposal of the Law is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 102 votes, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41415	So we move to the next item of the agenda is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax Advisory, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 385; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Dear Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41416	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So before you there is a draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Advisory Act. These amendments and additions to the Tax Advisory Act are in line with the Internal Market Services Directive. Amendments to the Law stipulates that the activity of the tax counselling may be carried out by foreign tax advisers who meet the conditions laid down by this law and subject to reciprocity, foreign tax advisers in the Republic of Croatia may carry out tax advisory activities and tax advisory activities. Foreign tax advisers may be entered in the directory of foreign tax advisers and carry out tax counselling activities under the name of a tax advisor with all rights and duties in carrying out tax advisory activities. While those foreign tax advisers who are not enrolled in the directory of foreign tax advisers in the Republic of Croatia may carry out certain activities in the context of the conduct of the tax advisory activity. Tax advisory activity from a country which is a State Party to the European Economic Area in the Republic of Croatia can establish its branches. These branches may provide tax counselling services in the Republic of Croatia which include consulting services on the taxes of their country of origin on the taxes of Contracting States of the European Economic Area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41417	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, the respected Josip Bencic signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41418	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm a little surprised that I'm the only one who answered for the discussion. So that's one European law, which is what Mr Lalovac said, we are harmonising with the European Union's regulations. The most significant change is that in this segment we also release tax advisers, foreign tax advisers into this segment of action. This law was passed in 2000, and it's actually a rare thing to do in the last 13 years, that we have one law that has actually changed nothing more significantly in 13 years, actually has not had any changes, which doesn't mean that the law is bad. The law is... good. The first amendment of the law was only in 2011 when, in fact, according to that law, the Croatian Chamber of Tax Advisors was established which then passed its statute, i.e. the program of passing exams for the tax advisor. So this all happened in 2011, 2012 and 2013. Why is such a situation, just to warn you that in the Republic of Croatia we currently have only 29 tax advisors and one of the reasons why I have seen it, perhaps even a programme of laying that is truly comprehensive and is relatively difficult, similar to something like a public record exam or a judicial exam, includes some 9 items and many additional literature. It is no problem if the exam is difficult, it is as difficult as anyone else but the question is why there are no more tax advisors. Are we really the state in which we're going to say so all the neat payments, we all know about taxes that we don't need tax advisors. I don't expect any answer to this question because the discussion about the gray economy, the tax ejaculation or the tax collection problems would take us away, and I don't think any parliamentary debate would be enough. Tax consultation is actually done by many in the Republic of Croatia. Let's say you have audit houses, so auditors, bookkeepers, and even at the Ministry of Finance in tax administrations, you have tax advisors. Well, if they're all licensed, they're not. Only 29 of them, I repeat, have a tax advisor's license. About how it sounds outwardly, say, in Austria and Germany, a thousand companies have at least one tax advisor, a licensed tax advisor. In order to ensure that tax consultation is done by an accounting officer, auditors and no one is responsible for their work, they are given a partial tax consultation on the audit and the Accounting Act. But the question arises when, for example, tax administration control comes specifically and finds some errors in the work of an accountant or in the work of an auditor, whether they are responsible for these failures. That's what I'm asking because the licensed auditor is responding, he has to be insured with the insurance company, I think he's minimum under Article 23. 2,000 kuna, as long as one d.o.o. corresponds to the assets or to their underlying capital of 20000 kuna. In Croatia, let's say we have four auditory sides of the house, that I don't now list them, that each of them have their own department of tax advisors, but do they have a licensed tax advisor? So it's just one segment that maybe let's say we're going to come out of this law and looking at the situation, that I'm not talking about how much taxes and contributions are important for the state of the municipality, the city, the county and here to the state register, and I think that in the next period, especially by entering tax advisers from the European Union, there's one waiting for us, so looking at the current situation, and given the EU's entry, I think we're simply going to have to give more importance to this activity, and that the Ministry of Finance will have to get more involved in the problems of tax counseling, unlike the current situation, because it's really in everyone's interest. Well, with this sentence I'd like to conclude, the SDP club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41419	Thank you. We don't have any more charges to discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41420	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax Advisory, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 385. The debate on the text of the Law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's up for it? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the 103 votes by and 1 vote against the conclusion that we are discussing amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the proposing representative to explain the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Minister of Finance Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41421	Thank you, Mr. President. On the initiative of the Committee on Legislatives and due to the ambiguity in Article 3 where we have listed only the National Journal in which the text of the Penal Code was published, this was a lack because all its amendments had to be made, as well as decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. It was necessary to formulate this Article 3. so the Government submits its amendment in accordance with the suggestions of the Committee which reads: Article 3 in the amended Article 8, paragraph 2, point 4 of the words No 109,/97, the words 27/98, 50/2000, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia decision 129 of 2000, 51 of the first, 111 of the third, 193 and the Constitutional Court Decision of the Republic of Croatia 105 of the fourth, 84 of the fifth, 71 of the sixth, 110 of the seventh, 152 of the eighth, 57 of the eleventh, 77 of the eleventh, the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41422	Thank you very much. I'm opening up the debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I ask that we plead to accept the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 103 votes for the adopted amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and becomes an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? There's someone restrained. I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 103 votes for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax Advisory in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41423	We move on to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on compulsory insurance in transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 374 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Finance, the esteemed Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41424	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You have before you the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Insurance in Transport and most of the law is harmonised by the legislation of the Republic of Croatia in the field of compulsory transport insurance with Directive 103 of the European Parliament and of the Council since 16 September 2009. I'd just short that's the most important newspaper of this law compared to the existing one, is to increase the secured amount in insurance contracts against auto responsibility. So in the event of death, injury and health damage, the minimum amount is now 42.7 million kuna, up to now 6.5 million kuna per adverse event, regardless of the number of damages, and in the case of destruction or damage to things is 8.5 million kuna, so far there have been 1.5 million kunas per adverse event regardless of the number of damages. It's important here to say that this is how it was actually negotiated and here very little possibilities were not applied this high. The minimum amount provided will also be harmonised with the European Consumer Prices Index. What is further important is that, in relation to the extension of the deadline for the resolution of the compensation claims, both material and immaterial damage, the deadline for the resolution is 60 days. It is important here to say that the directive allows for a 90-day period. We chose for 60 days because even though it was up to today that the deadline was somewhere around 30 days after some market situation was still not executed within that time limit. And together with HANFA and actually with the insurance company actually tried to set up that deadline that was actually supposed to be the shortest for an effective settlement of the damage claims. Provisions have also been introduced to ensure that, for insured persons, the right to lose insurance is lost if the damage is caused by a criminal offence of road traffic driving for which a judicial judgment has been passed. Provisions concerning supervisory measures that the supervisory authority, i.e. HANFA, insurance companies, have also been introduced, for example, to go now and notices and a solution to the removal of established illegality and irregularities, then to withdraw the authorisation to perform the functions of a member of the administration. So, more measures have been developed on surveillance issues. It is also important that the insurance company continues to be able to systematically inform HANFA of the conditions of insurance, no later than 60 days before their application, while for the pricers, the premiums of the technical base and other elements used for the calculation of the insurance premium are no longer valid in accordance with the Directive rather than at the request of HANFA. Also, here is compliance with the provisions of the Law governing compulsory health insurance in respect of the compensation of the insurance company is required to compensate the Croatian Health Insurance Office for the payment of advances of 4% of the paid functional premium insurance from compulsory insurance against auto responsibility. Here it is important to say that this part is in line with the Health Insurance Act where that 4% is already there, before it was 7%, which was actually disputed. So in fact, it's only now harmonizing to that part of the percentage, so the less burden to the insurance company to some real level of 4% is down. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41425	I thank the Deputy Minister of Finance. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Since no one signed up, I'm closing the hearing. We will now take a short break, but no longer than 15 minutes, as we expect the proposing representatives for points 15, 16 and 17. This is the Final Proposal of the Law on Construction Products, so the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the handling and conditions of construction to encourage investment and a proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Strategy of the Spatial Arrangement of the Republic of Croatia. So we're moving on at 2.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41426	The following is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on compulsory insurance in transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 374. The debate on the text of the Law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like the representative of the honourable Finance Minister Slavko Linic to declare Amendment 1 to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41427	Article 1(1) The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41428	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final text. Amendment No 3 to Article 34
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41429	The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41430	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. And Amendment No 4 to Article 35.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41431	The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41432	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 103 votes in favour, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Transport Insurance in the text has been adopted, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41433	Here we go. So we move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on Construction Products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 389, Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Anka Mrak Taritas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41434	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us a proposal for a law on construction products. Introducing a few sentences to explain this whole problem a little bit. So Croatia has and still has the Construction Products Act, which was adopted in 2008. it has been fully in line with the Council Directive of 21 December 1988. However, on 4 April 2011, a Regulation of the EU Parliament and of the Council laying down the harmonisation of trading conditions for construction products was published and the directive was repealed. This regulation provides for a transitional period from 24 April 2011 to 30 June 2013 so it also coincides with the well-known date of 1st July and Croatia's entry into the EU. So we have already implemented one amendment and addition of the law on construction products before this esteemed Parliament so that it can apply for this transitional period by 30 June 2013. The government has adopted the regulation accordingly. And now here we are with one integral text of the Construction Products Act, which basically defines two areas. One area is the so-called area. The harmonised area, which is the area directly covered by the 2011 regulation, is the area covered by the said EU Parliament regulation and the area in which we are only talking about how to act. But the same thing that matters is that this law defines the so-called law. non-harmonised or unregulated area. What area is this? So what is specific for a particular country for Croatia is, say, a specific area of the sea, construction in the sea where we have some concessions that are not characteristic of the EU area. What is an important difference in this harmonised area, and on the basis of the substantial change adopted by the regulation, the extension includes some essential requirements for buildings, and the introduction of a new basic requirement relating to the sustainability of construction and reuse of construction products, the reduction of the number of conformity assessment systems, have so far been assessed in relation to 6 points, now compared to 5, the extension of the number of cases in which the manufacturer may place the product on the market without a declaration of conformity and the introduction of a simplification of the assessment process and the system of assessment and verification of the continuity of the properties. The same way in relation to the non-compliant area are defined ways, conditions and criteria under which this should be done. The significant changes that can be expected are primarily in relation to these non-compliant products, and there are additional work and additional conditions expected. What is important and important is that all construction products that are now on the market can remain under these conditions for 2 years, compared to certain fire conditions for another 6 years. So to recap, we have and we still have the Construction Products Act, it is a new law that allows the EU directive or EU regulation to be applied directly to all EU countries from 1 July to apply Croatia to the way and treat us as ministries and competent authorities in relation to this. And the same way and the treatment of this uncoordinated area. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41435	I thank the minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative, Vedran Babic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41436	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, respected ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. We have before us an amendment to the Construction Products Act. Construction products in the Republic of Croatia are governed by the Construction Products Act. Regulation on the harmonisation of the area of construction products with Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council 305/211 in the transitional period, the Regulation on technical permits for construction products, the Regulation on conformity assessment, the Regulation on conformity and labelling of construction products and the Regulation on the control of construction products. The relevant Construction Products Act provides for technical characteristics to assess conformity and demonstrate the usability of construction products as conditions for their placing on the market. Distribution and use to the extent necessary to meet the essential requirements for construction... The law on spatial planning and construction, as well as technical regulations and harmonised European specifications. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On 4 April 2011, Regulation No 305/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2011 laying down harmonised conditions for trade in construction products was published in the Official Messenger of the European Union,... Council Directive 89/106/EEC is also governed by this Act by the way in which this new Regulation applies for the purposes of the marketing and movement of construction products within the European Economic Area, and in particular for the systems of assessment and implementation of the continuity of the properties of construction products, the actions carried out by manufacturers, declared or selected bodies, the assessment and verification of the continuity of the properties of construction products, the requirements for notified bodies, the application procedure, the obligations of the notified bodies, the obligations and the requirements for the application, the application procedure, the obligations of the notified bodies, the appointment and the application of the technical assessment bodies, the conditions for the work and the conduct of the bodies responsible for the implementation of that implementation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These other important issues for placing on the market distribution in the use of construction products both for the purposes of the common European economy and for the Croatian market. The ministry responsible for works of construction will also carry out the following tasks as an administrative body. First for a harmonised area of the contact point for construction products, designation of technical evaluation bodies, notification of notified bodies and a member of the Standing Committee on Construction. Second, for the non-harmonised area, the verification procedure will be carried out to meet the requirements of third-party bodies in the process of assessing and verifying the continuity of the properties. These appointments by the Croatian Technical Assessment Authorities and will also lead the process of recognising qualifications for professions regulated by this law. This law has also been adopted, it is adopted in an emergency procedure to comply with the European Union rules and thus requested by the applicant. The SDP club will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41437	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, a respected representative, Ivica Mandic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41438	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with an associate. Here is the draft draft law on construction products... As far as the proposal for a law on construction products is concerned, it is another harmonisation that the Republic of Croatia is obliged to implement up to 1. Seven. 2013 [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[I'm sorry. Here you go.]] This Law seeks to regulate the way in which EU Regulation No 305/2011 applies for the purposes of placing on the market and movement of construction products within the European Economic Area. What I would particularly point out is that for the application of this Regulation, that regulation which was laid down in Directive 89/106 shall be repealed. Main, the main message of this Law that we will comply with this law and regulation that regulates construction products in the Republic of Croatia because of 1. The 7th largest part of the law that regulates this part excluding what is in the transitional period will be regulated by this bill. It is essential that the differences adopted by this proposal of this Act that, in relation to Regulation 305 and Directive 89/106, the extension covers some of the essential requirements for buildings in the section concerning hazardous substances that may contain construction products that may be products of the manufacturing process in the building. In addition, the introduction of a new basic requirement relating to the sustainability of construction and reuse of construction products after the decommissioning of the building of the two fundamental requirements requires further adoption and adaptation of Croatian technical regulations and significant awareness-raising of the required fulfilment of the prescribed requirements. A reduction in the number of systems and conformity assessment from 6 to 5 as well as an extension of the number of cases in which the manufacturer may place the product on the market without a declaration of conformity of the product. This directly affects the need to raise the performance of the national construction control system. What I would say is that in the part where we do not have compliance, where we have the consistency of the area that contact points are for construction products, that part of the jobs must be done by the Ministry of Construction and that they will do, appoint the technical evaluation bodies, the reporting of the notified bodies, the member of the Standing Committee on Construction. And those parts of construction products which are not harmonised will be subject to the verification of the fulfilment of the requirements for third-party bodies in the process of assessing and verifying the continuity of the properties, the appointment of the Croatian technical assessment bodies and the procedure of recognising the qualifications of professions regulated by this law. In particular, the adoption of this law will allow for the application of EU Regulation 305/2011. for a harmonised area in accordance with the obligations of the Republic of Croatia arising from membership and will also ensure that the area of construction products in a harmonised area is regulated. This is what we believe that this law will perform its essential role in this time to allow the full compliance to continue the trade of construction products uninterruptedly. In any case, the HNS club will support the proposal for a law on construction products.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41439	Thank you. We don't have any more charges to discuss, so I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41440	Final proposal of the Law on construction products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 389. The debate on the final bill is over. The government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please plead. Who's in? Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 102 votes, we have accepted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the proposing representative to explain the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Deputy Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Željko Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41441	I thank the Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen. The amendment is accepted because it is only about [[Leko: We know that.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41442	Explain what you think.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41443	It is only a different statement and a more concrete clarification of the settings set out in the law and for this reason the amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41444	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously, with 102 votes to accept the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. We are going to the amendments of the Croatian Parliament Legislatives Committee. Amendment No. Article 10(1) Your Honor, Deputy?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41445	It's also just a saying so it's acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41446	Accepts? The government accepts. Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final proposal. Amendment No. 2. in Articles 32 and 33. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41447	In the same sense, it's just a matter of saying, of changing expressions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41448	Do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41449	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41450	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. That's how we exhausted the list of amendments. Thank you very much, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41451	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41452	I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Is anyone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 99 for and 1 abstentions have been passed by the Law on construction products in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41453	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal for a law amending the Act of Conduct and construction conditions to encourage investment, emergency procedure, first and long reading, PZ No. 394 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, Mrs Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41454	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is about amending and supplementing the Law on Conduct and Construction Conditions to encourage investment. It's a law that was passed in 2010. This amendment allows for the following, the application of the law by the end of the year because, as you know, we are in the construction of a new Construction and Spatial Planning and Inspection Act and we are in a public debate and this public debate takes place until 20 June. After that, we will enter the procedure before the government and before the Croatian Parliament so that there would be no doubt about this law in the process, so by the end of the year the law would be in force. What is sufficient and important is that all those requests which would have been filed in accordance with this law by the end of the year would have been resolved in accordance with the same thing that would not be possible now, that is, if this law had ceased to apply on 30 June and all that was under the procedure could not be completed in accordance with the provisions of that law. We therefore propose an immediate amendment to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41455	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the respected Vedran Babic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41456	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Ministers with Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Law on Conduct and Construction Conditions for Investment Encouragement entered into force on 25 June 2009. The basic purpose of this law was to encourage the reduced direct investment in the area of construction and accelerated capital flow. The analysis of the results of the application of the law, as well as the monitoring of the situation in the field of construction by the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, has shown that the basic purpose of the adoption of this law has been fulfilled and the same extended validity has been extended on two occasions. The last extension of the law until 30 June of this year was laid down, taking into account that by that date, it was intended to adopt a new Act on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia and the new Construction Act, which would contain provisions that would satisfy the purpose of the Law on Conduct and Construction Conditions for the promotion of investments and would no longer be necessary to apply the same. In view of the fact that the laws referred to above are still in the manufacturing procedure, i.e. the adoption and until the expiry of this law is terminated, the adoption and entry into force of those laws is not likely to take place. In order to ensure continuity of investment incentives, i.e. investment in the area of construction, as well as to ensure the same legal conditions of construction, it is considered necessary to further extend the period of validity of the law in question by the end of the year, and when the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia and the Construction Act will be adopted. It is also not necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget for the implementation of this law, so the SDP club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41457	The HNS club's position will be presented by the respected Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41458	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We expected to talk in this time already about the final law that should have the purpose of this law that was extended on two occasions. Since we have not yet obtained the conditions to talk about the new law, we fully accept that this law remains in force until 30.12.2013, and I believe that in that time we will talk about a whole new law where we will look at both construction, inspection and supervision and everything else, one real law that will fully respond to the building conditions to encourage investment. The HNS Club will accept the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41459	Thank you. In the name of the HDZ club, the respected representative Branko Bačić will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41460	Dear Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, as we have already heard the Law amending the Law on Conduct and Construction Conditions in order to encourage investment, we are practically third time, i.e. after the basic original law has been passed here is the third time we approach its extension, i.e. the extension of the period of validity of the law itself. Otherwise, the Law on Conduct and Construction Conditions for Investment Incentives entered into force in 6 months 2009 and was announced at that time as one of the proturecesian measures that should have contributed to creating more favourable conditions for direct or domestic investment in the Republic of Croatia. It is important to say that this law applied only to one type of object, and that is precisely to those objects for which a location permit was first to be found, and then to confirm the main project until for the other objects this law did not apply. The very aim of this law was to speed up the issue of works for construction within a planned 45-day period, and the law was called all in 45 days. And he, according to us at the HDZ Club, and then when he was brought in and he won the success today. And indeed, many investors are cut off from the path to the coming of an appropriate building act. What we have in the past four years since this law came into force we can say that unfortunately many investors covered by this law could not have been covered for reasons that they could not clearly contribute to the proof of the right of ownership, and then their hopes that their cases would be quickly resolved clearly that they had failed and that such objects could not enter into this law on the one hand. On the other hand, the fact that numerous spatial-planned documents that could allow for resolution under this law have not been adopted. Also, according to the ministry's records, a series of laws have been rejected that applied to practical legalisation because many investors tried for the buildings that had already begun to comply with this law on construction, the construction decision, however, could not because this law could not have issued a solution for the construction of buildings that had already been built, were they supposed to go according to that original Law on spatial planning and construction. We and this law that we are discussing today as well as all possible announced laws or on construction or strategic investment will not, I keep saying that for this speaker, we will not succeed unless we systematically approach the realisation of the settlement of property-legal relations on both land and private land. And the assumption of any success of any law in the Republic of Croatia is settled property-legal relations. I've said this many times, repeatedly, and even during the time we adopted the state budget, I pointed to the illogical nature of the situation that the State Geodetic Administration as a potential holder of these works would go into systematic geodetic measurement, and then the construction of the land book catalogues from year to year reduces the resources in the positions of the State Geodetic Administration. For example, by 8%, which is not a small amount for the State Geodetic Authority, funds are reduced in the construction of the real estate cadastre, for example in the Neretva Valley by 32%, for the editing of real estate cadastres on islands by 50%, funds are reduced for the National Programme for the establishment of land particle identification systems, etc., etc. For the management and maintenance of a common land book and catastra system. So, on the one hand, by fixing these records, the basic records, can be support, support, the basis for any law that will go towards speeding up the resolution of the issue of works for construction. As long as it is in the Republic of Croatia an unsettled cadastre and a land book, all of these laws as well as those announced by the Minister that they should be passed by the end of the year will not win the success of which we expect the adoption of such laws. As far as the law itself is concerned, according to us at the HDZ Club, it is undeniable that it should be adopted, that the deadline of this law should be extended, but we call on the government and the resolution ministry to come to the Parliament as soon as possible with some system law that will not be drawn up in this way, with another law which could then address the issue of speeding up investments in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, it also states in the Strategy on the availability and management of state assets, that adequate resources are indeed provided so that what I was just saying can be resolved, which is to settle property-legal relations as the basis for possible investments in the Republic of Croatia. So the HDZ club supports the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41461	Thank you very much. That's how we exhausted the list of people reported for discussion. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41462	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Conduct and Construction Conditions to encourage investment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 394. The debate on the final bill is over. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 101 votes for the adoption of the Act amending the Act of Conduct and the terms of construction to encourage investment in the text, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41463	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. It is - Proposal for a Decision on amendments and additions to the Strategy for the Spatial Arrangement of the Republic of Croatia; the Proposer of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this Decision. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Mrs Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41464	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us amendments and additions to the Strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia. So, the strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia was on 27 June '97. years brought to this honored House. It was then implemented and is still operationally through the spatial arrangement programme, and indirectly through the spatial plans of the county and spatial planning of municipalities, cities and large cities. During the last year, the need for this strategy to be complemented and amended in a certain part and became more operational in order to be able to issue certain permits or to adopt individual spatial plans of the counties which were at that time at a high stage of completion but were not in line with that strategy in a certain part. Therefore, the minister made the 22nd August 2012 decision to approach the development and amendment of the amendment of the Strategy for the Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia, which has been done. However, as you well know, we were doing a report on the situation in the area and in order to formally initiate a public debate we waited for the state of the room to pass as well as its procedure and this respected House was on 22 February 2011 and brought this report on the situation in space so that we went with a proposal to amend and supplement the strategy in a public debate of 15 days from 26 February to 13 March 2013. As part of this public debate, which was formally on the Ministry's website which we asked for opinions, suggestions and suggestions from the county institutions 20 counties plus the City of Zagreb we received comments. Of these remarks that came 38 we accepted, 3 we partially accepted for 152 we gave an interpretation of why the comments on this amendment and the addition of the strategy were concerned, and 15 we did not accept. Equally before the creation of the strategy in parallel with the strategy, the creation of a programme by the competent ministry, which is the Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection. In accordance with the applicable laws, we asked for an opinion on whether it was necessary to carry out a strategic environmental impact assessment and we received from them a decision that we did not need to carry out a strategic assessment of the environmental impact. Since the public debate on the strategy and programme has been parallelly led, since the elements embedded in the strategy are also embedded in the programme. Once the strategy is discussed and hoped and delivered then we will be able to bring in the programme very quickly and operationally. What are the topics of this amendment and the addition of the strategy? The decision said that the strategy is changing in part of the harmonisation of the infrastructure, which has been done. Harmonisations have been made in relation to road traffic. So at this time when it comes to road traffic in Croatia there are 1413km of highway, 6741km of state roads, there is no need to count now, but the road network is 26907km and compared to road traffic this change and supplement refers to the categorization of the road and the highway... so the same route remains only the retegorisation and the various solutions of the Zagreb-Dubrovnik road node Osojnik. Similarly, when it comes to rail transport, it is good to know that in Croatia the total length of railway lines is at this time 2722km, so you can easily compare the length of the road and rail network. Therefore, in relation to the charts and the definition of rail transport, certain harmonised operations were carried out in such a way as to enable all activities related to the improvement of the rail network to take place in relation to rail transport. Compared to maritime transport, the cartogram has been completed with the industrial port of Plomin, the port opened for international transport Šibenik and additional interpretations and explanations have been given related to the industrial port of Krk, as well as the clarification for Urine 2 and certain facilities or systems of Luka Rijeka and Luke Ploče. So at that time when the change was launched and the completion strategy was already at a high stage completed with the public debate being also the spatial plan of the Primorje-Gorski County so that it was already possible through the strategy and through the programme to take over spatial solutions related and defined in that spatial plan of the county. Compared to the pipelines, which are oil pipelines, products and pipelines, the cartogram has been supplemented in part of the planned corridors, Zitnjak terminals and planned other pipelines. It's about important routes that are defined like this by a strategic document. The energy system is also complemented by the location of Slavonski Brod and the harmonisation of Plomin is equally carried out in relation to Plomin. What is important in relation to the energy system is, in principle, the planning of certain transmission systems. This is what and when I spoke in the report on the state of the room in front of this respected House then and in the report on the state of the room I talked about these shortcomings when we talk about the transmission system and the activities that will need to be clearly increased in relation to this transmission system. What is equally important is that this strategy is important at the time when it was adopted and at the moment of some valorisation is all the time thinking that it is the basic year of 2020, I would say that given the transformations that are in space and certain changes that have been made after the laws I mentioned and the esteemed representative Bačić expects them to be those laws by the end of the year, and indeed they must be, we will start and we have already started with gentle activities and we will step up to the creation of a strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia which would be for the year 2030, and operationally according to the proposal which is currently in the public debate of the law no longer and would not have a programme but would have a spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia, which would have been an operational document in relation to the strategy. Today, therefore, the strategy is a strategic document that brings this esteemed House and the programme is a document brought by the Government. In the future, we propose that both the strategy and then the spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia bring this distinguished House, that is, the Croatian Parliament. So, to recap, there are currently amendments and additions to the Spatial Planning Strategy. They refer to important and important coordinations that we need. In the process we conducted a public debate, we received all consent, all opinions and carried out all procedures in accordance with ours and with all other regulations, so I propose the adoption of this Amendment and the addition of the Strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41465	I thank the Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the HDZ Club, the respected Branko Bacic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41466	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. After the Minister's introduction to this Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Strategy of the Spatial Arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, I would like to say a few words concerning the basis of the adoption of this Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Strategy of Spatial Planning. In fact, it is exactly as the Minister said that in the Croatian Parliament at the beginning of the year we discussed the State of the Republic of Croatia Report for the period 2008/2012. A year. That this report seems to have been adopted on 22 February and that the team is truly in line with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction created the preconditions for the adoption of, Amendments and Supplements of the Strategy or the strategy of spatial planning itself. According to this Act every 8 years, changes and additions or the adoption of a new Strategy for the Spatial Arrangement of the Republic of Croatia can be approached. And on that side, there is really no dispute, no dispute that, by making a report that a prerequisite has been created to make and supplement the strategy itself. However, in this report on the state of the space we adopted in February does not say and does not determine the need for the adoption of amendments and the addition of a strategy on spatial planning, but the need and starting points of production and the adoption of a new strategy for the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia are being elaborated. This said that the new Spatial Planning Strategy is a priority for the profession and scientists in the next period. Therefore, we at the Croatian Democratic Community Club do not see why if only three, four months ago we found ourselves in the Croatian Parliament and at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I would say to the Government and the Ministry that it is going to create a new strategy which, as far as I have information, is actually being carried out in the ministry and activities on the creation of a new strategy, which is necessary, the minister did not say, which was a necessary reason for us to now go with a report which, in my opinion, was neither prepared enough nor adopted at the level of the strategy itself. Because the amending act should be adopted in the procedure in which the basic act was adopted, which is in this case the Strategy of the Spatial Arrangement of the Republic of Croatia. So we don't understand why we're speeding up with this decision. The fact that the decision to amend and supplement the Spatial Arrangement Strategy is not comprehensive, does not go after all those projects, programmes that we have done in the past 8 years, i.e. in the past 16 years when the Strategy at the level of the Republic of Croatia has been adopted or have been realised or implemented in the realization phase. Therefore, it would be better, it would be more justified, if the government were normal according to the report we adopted in February headed into there, in this task itself, I say in the report on... not after only 3 months, but instead of going towards that decision and that determination adopted by the Parliament in February, we are going with one report, one amending strategy that is incomplete, which is not complete, which does not really show all that the strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia and also contains. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, it is a very scarce and almost inappropriate explanation of this decision to amend and supplement the strategy even on those projects, even on the projects that we have put into this strategy, i.e. by amending the strategy. And not to say that anything has been missed about all those projects that are already included in a number of spatial plans of the county, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia which may also need to be included in the strategy itself and are not included, so there really is not a single word about them. I will discuss this later because I received comments from the Mayor of Dubrovnik-Neretva County when it comes to changing and supplementing the spatial planning strategy. But I believe that such remarks are safe throughout the Republic of Croatia in a number of counties would also be highlighted. However, the debate itself took place at the pre-election time, during the local elections and many, probably both mayors and mayors, the mayors were primarily turned to local elections and less involved in this process of making amendments and supplementing the Decision on the strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia. So in that part, I'm saying there was no reason to rush this decision, that's one thing. The second thing, if we were going to do that then we needed systematically everything that we think is necessary, all those projects, all those plans, everything that's been done in the past, and what's planned in the county spatial plans, should be contained by me in this strategy itself. And not to say that it should have been better explained why certain projects were included in the strategy. It should also be explained why certain projects did not enter this decision on Amendments and additions to the Spatial Planning Strategy. And another principled thing that I hold out is that it is not good when we go to the Changes and Supplements of the Strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia at this very time, as we bring and discuss the Strategy of Spatial Planning, that is, its amendments and additions to the Croatian Assembly are either on boards or very soon there will be two very important laws at the plenary session, the Nature Protection Act and the Environmental Protection Act. These laws have laid down certain procedures relating to the development of strategic environmental impact assessments, important projects in the Republic of Croatia. If a document in Croatia requires a strategic environmental impact assessment for it, then I do not know what document it requires if it is not considered in important corridors infrastructure, any transport, any energy, any other projects that are vital to the Republic of Croatia, and thus clearly affect the situation in space and the state of nature. It is precisely with this Decision on amendments and amendments to the strategy that it states that if the Government adopts, it will clearly adopt, that the majority in the Assembly will adopt such a decision, that the Government will, within 30 days, develop the Programme of Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia, at the exact time when the Government has to make a decision to declare the ecological network of the Republic of Croatia, where it would at least be correct to make it clear that these two documents will then be harmonised, that we are not making and declaring part of Croatia an ecological network, and precisely through this ecological network we are going through this strategy with important infrastructure corridors, transport, energy etc. So I think that there was no need and the government had no need for me because everything that the Government has done with this change and complementing the strategy, I think it has already been contained to the greatest extent in a number of county spatial plans, and it has been possible, through the creation of a complete strategy, to overcome and implement these projects, and not so quickly, that without any valid debate in the Republic of Croatia, it is going to change and complement the strategy itself. As regards the concrete observations I received from the mayor of Dubrovnik-Neretva, this is an amendment to point 4.4.2. where the County of Dubrovnik-Neretva County proposes to establish itself as a road connection of traffic, so the road traffic south of Croatia to Dubrovnik, by continuing to build a highway from the Ploče node towards Dubrovnik. This is for the south of Croatia, and Croatia would say one of the most important strategic projects to get Croatia out of traffic isolation, and this road route implies a continuation of highway construction from Ploč towards Dubrovnik, a continuation of the building of the Peljesac Bridge, a realisation of a fast road across Peljesac that would bypass the territory of the Republic of Croatia and a connection of Dubrovnik with the airport in Cilipi fast road. We believe that, as we have already entered these changes and complemented the spatial order strategies, and here I said ad hoc, in a hurry, this project, which contains the Spatial Plan of the County of Dubrovnik-Neretvana, by us, was supposed to be quite possibly valorised. It should also be deleted from one specific point in which the highway would continue from... to the Thick Hill and we hold that it is not possible to build a highway on that part, and that this is already defined by the Environmental Impact Study in a certain way. Also when you spoke to Madam Minister about ports of national importance in the Republic of Croatia you also mentioned the Port of Rijeka, it seems to me to Luka Ploče. Here, with this change and addition of the Strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, we have defined the system of Luke Ploče and two separate pools of Komarna and Briest were included in this system, and these two separate pools of Komarna and Brijesta are practically on the trail of one government project that was to be used as a substitute or replacement for the construction of the Pelješka bridge by introducing a ferry between the two ports of Komarna and Briesta, and that is exactly where the Pelješki Bridge would be built. I think it is also in the European Commission's view that the Pelješki bridge is the best way of transporting Croatia to the rest of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, that this is the most rational and best solution and since the Dubrovnik-Neretva County Space Plan has just drawn the Peljevna bridge I do not understand why in this spatial arrangement strategy, with Luke Ploče, to include two separate pools of Komarna and Brijest, just the two swimming pools that should be the starting point and the final port on the mainland and on the island of Peljesac, which should be compensation for the undeveloped Pelješki bridge. I don't think it should, by the way, that all the serious institutions in Croatia have left the idea of connecting the southern Croatian ferrys on the site of Komarna on the mainland and Briest on the island of Peljesac and that a ferry line between Luke Ploca and Luke Trpanj is being established until the building of the Peljesac Bridge, an existing ferry of connections that should be strengthened, not going into the partitions of two new ports, and that is precisely where the Pelješki bridge should be built. I don't know how this traffic could be established while the bridge is being built, and not to say that this is exactly the confirmation that the government has not passed the procedure to assess environmental impact studies, because when a study of environmental impacts was made for the Peljeski Bridge then it was then found that in the Bay of Maloston, a special reserve could not establish a transport ferry connection because it would significantly disrupt the biodiversity of the Adriatic Sea in the area of the Maloston Bay and the small sea. So, from all I said, I believe that this change of strategy should not have gone in this way, that it was not made in the way that the basic document that included the full debate at the level of the Republic of Croatia was adopted, that it should have been done exactly as it said in the report brought by this Council on the situation in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which defined that a new strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia would be done, and that it was through the adoption of the strategy to answer all these questions and dilemmas that I have put here on behalf of the HDZ Club. Therefore, the HDZ Club cannot support such a decision on amendments and additions to the Strategy for the Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41467	Thank you, Mr. Bacic. Your colleague Mladen Marelić will be replicating you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41468	Thank you, Vice President. I'm surprised by your mayor's position because we're still councillors of the County Assembly, I didn't get any mayor's position. I'm surprised a colleague from Dubrovnik doesn't know anything about it either. And not to mention much Port Development Strategy we know that on Brijest, on Peljesac peninsula, a port has been created, in fact, an access ramp with existing bases for ferry ports has been created. So she can be in office tomorrow. And if there were any wisdom, our county would already be connected to the ferry, the Komarna-Bresta to the building of the Pelješko Bridge because we all know we'll expect to do that bridge to come when the bridge will work not as you imagined but a normal bridge that will be in the function of this county, our county and the Republic of Croatia with much less funds. And I think we'll have a bridge that'll be a pleasure. And this Trpanj-Peljesac I mean connecting Trpanj-Ploče an hour ferry, and here we could drive in 5, 10 minutes, we could connect this part until the Pelješki bridge was built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41469	The replica matches the esteemed Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41470	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Marelic for your information, and your colleagues, I assume you're thinking of Mrs Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, you're not a councilman of the County Assembly for two months. Namely, the Croatian government has disbanded all representative bodies either locally, or regional self-government. Well then, at that time, Mr. Mayor acted as mayor and his duty and obligation was to respond in the process of making this decision and he just reacted on June 3rd so he couldn't consult you because you were not even a councilman at the time. As far as the speed you're talking about building two ports, one on Peljesac, and the others on the mainland I'm surprised by your ignorance of the problem so that in a few months you can build a port at the fact that there is neither a fixed location in the spatial plan nor county or the municipality of Slivno nor the municipality of Ston. That no environmental impact study was made, that no access roads were built. So, if all of this together were still very, very far away, and you'd want to realize in a couple of months those two ports, and you haven't been able to figure out whether the bridge is a good or bad solution. This is what the European Commission needs to give you. And the European Commission has stood at the point of view of us at the HDZ Club and the County Authority that the Pelješki bridge is the only and best solution in southern Croatia. And I am holding and calling on the government to continue this project as soon as possible not to spend another year and a half of lost time and to continue to have to cross the border four times when we go to Dubrovnik or when we go to Korčula. I therefore believe that the procedure is also satisfied, which is not, that again these two ports should not be built but should be built because they would interfere with the construction of the Pelješke Bridge on either side, while on the other hand introducing ferryes into the Maloston Bay where the special reservation for me is indeed the least inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41471	On behalf of the HNS club, a respected colleague, Ivica Mandic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41472	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Minister, we are of the opinion in the HNS Club that every strategy is welcome at all times because it speaks of goals, of the wishes where we want to develop and how we want to develop the space of the Republic of Croatia. What is important today for the proposal of this strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia that the right conditions were met on 22 February of this year when we adopted the situation in the Republic of Croatia 2008-2012. Also, I commend the Ministry of Spatial Planning and the Minister with a publication with a book, I think it is one of the key documents of the Republic of Croatia concerning space and space storage. What this strategy brings certainly brings certain goals ahead of us in a short and long time. All these objectives are tasked with economic growth and economic development of certain parts of the Republic of Croatia, depending on whether they are connected road corridors, whether they are rail corridors, whether they are sea corridors or pipe or energy potentials of the Republic of Croatia. What is certain in this strategy is that almost all the most important interventions in the area have been touched by this strategy. What is also important is that this strategy, as well as previous to this strategy, put those Republics in the context of European space, in the context of North-South and East-West ties and that these corridors that bind both rail and road to fully comply with this strategy. What I would say about road traffic or roads in the Republic of Croatia that the Republic of Croatia has a total of 27 thousand km of highways, which local roads, which are county roads and that we believe that the Republic of Croatia is at the very top on highways in Europe per capita. What I would particularly point out is that in the construction of highways and other infrastructures, there is a much-leaded account in the Republic of Croatia of the area protection that we believe we have much more stringent criteria than the EU, a lot of quality criteria both in this strategy and in such a relationship with the conservation of the environment we need to continue, that everything that is done in the area that fits very well and that is why our builders, architects, designers of certain praises, are also worthy of the space that is the greatest wealth of the Republic. What is also said in this strategy is that building highways, semi-roads and other road infrastructures is the best way to help connect and competitiveness both the economy and transport connections in the Republic of Croatia. What I would say is that these most important corridors relating to links with Europe, of which we are of 1.7 full members, that they fully correspond. What I would particularly refer to is the issue of rail transport. Railway traffic in the independent Republic of Croatia is experiencing traffic stagnation year after year and we believe that the Republic of Croatia has not taken care enough of this same important segment of transport in the Republic of Croatia, means rail transport, that although we have about 2700km of railways, these more or less are not at the right level to be competitive so that they can provide quality services and be competitive in international transport. We believe in the HNS Club that this segment needs to be particularly addressed, and this strategy also allows it to raise the general technical and technological level of economics, the degree of security that we have today at a large number of railway crossings which are not sufficiently secure and that this must also be worked on security. We believe that this strategy and this segment satisfys to a good extent. What is particularly important is that the Republic of Croatia has one long-standing tradition of maritime transport, that the Republic of Croatia has about 17km of operational coast means landings and we record less and less traffic from year to year. We expect that by entering the EU, the capacity of the overloaded ports will certainly increase, but normally we need to train all ports to meet capacity in the overload and in the quality. The Republic of Croatia has one significant number of ports on which there is no need for large applications and in any case on that segment to be worked because it is one of the largest predispositions to the development of maritime transport, that the Republic of Croatia is a Mediterranean country and that we have a large area of the Adriatic coast and a large space of the possibility of overloading the use of all these ports. What is in the concept of air traffic development is certain that this mode of transport enables the Republic of Croatia to make better and faster service and competitiveness in terms of tourism economy, which we believe that this segment is going very quickly forward and that potential investors will know how to take advantage of these advantages offered by the Republic of Croatia. What is also important in this strategy is that, in the pipeline traffic that is around the Republic of Croatia, it is certainly a major predisposition to the issue of transporting gas, oil and all other things, that this is one of the largest resources of the Republic of Croatia and that this potential should always be owned by the Republic of Croatia in terms of transporting certain energy products that go into transport in this way of pipelines, products, pipelines and we believe that this is one of the significant potentials and a great opportunity in the strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia and its economy. These pipelines, pipelines, pipelines, pipelines are included in the European gas pipeline system. Normally, some are not finished yet, but surely the Republic of Croatia will be able to make the most of it because of its geographical position. In addition to these road potential priorities in the strategy for the development of electricity production, this must certainly be taken into account by the Republic of Croatia on the diversification of the source of electricity production. Given our position in the Republic of Croatia and in that part, there are huge predispositions. The HNS Club will accept this strategy and I think it is good that the goals are well set and that they valorise the Republic of Croatia from the east, northwest to the south of the Republic of Croatia, including the Gorski Kotar and Istria. I believe that none of these parts in this strategy are cut off and that allows quality management and space, which in many places points to a particular importance that we should protect and protect the environment and space without conflicting with construction and investment. The HNS Club will support this strategy's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41473	Thank you. The wish to replicate was reported by counterpart Marijan Skvaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41474	Dear Mr. Representative, first of all, I agree with you, thanking the ministry, because after a report of the situation in the area that has been delivered to us after this proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Strategy of Spatial Arrangement, there is indeed a condition for this arrangement that primarily contributes to the development of the economy. And that's what matters to us. I also agree with you that we must very much... about the connection of the country, the corridors east, west, north, south. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I must point out that perhaps in that area, in relation to the south, so as not to neglect the north of Croatia. Because he's the port of our country. Anything comes out or gets in most of it has to go through that part. And that is why it is good that this strategy is also very much covered by that part of the north of Croatia. In particular, I would like to highlight road traffic where this corridor connects two of our border crossings, primarily Macelj and Goričan and interconnected, on a fast road, which we have defined not to need a car road, should be more efficient than with a fast road. And also where it is connected and this alternative corridor tracks particularly high efficiency that for many years it's been in the program and now it's left but we have to raise it to a higher level which is the Varazdin-Dovec-Zabok railroad. Here in this part of the Strategy is also leading, I hope that the Government will make sure that the North of Croatia gets an adequate valorisation in development as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41475	This replica is matched by colleague Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41476	Thank you very much, and now we at the HNS Club have begun to replicate, obviously we have learned from those who have long been in the Parliament. What I would say anyway and agree with my colleague that they are here, we could set a certain number of priorities. So the priorities are first those corridors that are connected to the EU corridors, and then we have interregional corridors that are related to the development of the Republic of Croatia, then the county and then within the county. I fully accept, but in any case, they're being led into priorities. And what I would say, with all due respect to the speciality of life on the islands, is that, in any case, life should also be taken into account in other parts of the Republic of Croatia that are undeveloped, which are almost to be left without a population in some short time. So in the conservation strategies of space, you should think the same way about islands and the rest of life on islands and in other parts of the Republic of Croatia where the trend of the disappearance and departure of the population from those areas is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41477	Another replica is respected counterpart Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41478	Thank you very much. You were talking about Croatian railways, or the railways in Croatia, let's say. I fully agree with your conclusion that the long-term investments have been missing for many years and that the situation of the Croatian Railways, or our railways, is catastrophic. However, you said that much more should be invested among other things in security and primarily in railway road crossings. For this to really be so, that there would be a realisation of any strategy should monitor the budget. However, the budget says 0 kuna is planned to secure railway road crossings. Therefore, it is obvious that strategies are in mutual dissent and budget itself. Another thing that you did not mention but which is stated in this material that for the management of part of the existing railway infrastructure within a deadline of 20 years. Let me just tell you that one, one single railway administration went with a concession on railway lines and eventually these railways had to buy out, or return themselves under management, the state administration, because there was no complete investment by private investors, investment in both maintenance and security. Therefore, this part of me, I think, is certainly not in the cause and survival of the Croatian Railways as, not as companies but as railways as a kind of traffic but is not in line with what you said was the goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41479	The replica corresponds to Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41480	Here, thank you, dear colleague Novak. So what I would say is you failed in your replica to deny me that this strategy on page 17 says exactly this: raising the general technical level of economics, degree of security. So this Strategy, the Strategy predicts it, and in that part, I have decidedly said that we should behave in this way. What kind of funding we're going to finance, whether we're going to finance from the state budget, whether we're going to apply these traffic routes east, west, north, to the European Union funds. I believe that these are all, these are all traffic routes that exist in the Republic of Croatia both north and west-east, that these are also roads which are of the interest of the European Union and that all roads can be equipped and built according to the most modern and best European standards. And in any case, it is the task and administration of the Croatian Railways to apply with projects towards the European Union because these are the interests and the European Union not only of the interests of the Republic of Croatia to bring roads to a high degree of security to a high degree of economic viability of transport and goods and passengers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41481	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The esteemed representative, Mirela Holly, answered her word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41482	Thank you, Vice President. Here it is, I would like to say at the very beginning of the debate that I have calmed down after hearing the opening statement of Minister Mrak-Taritash because I took part in a session of the Environment Protection Committee where my direct question was raised regarding the strategic impact assessment of the environment and the process of assessing the need to carry out a strategic environmental impact assessment of your deputy and colleague who was there said that none of these two had been carried out. Here it is, I am pleased that the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning respects the laws of the Republic of Croatia and that the process of assessing the need to carry out a strategic environmental impact assessment because, of course, this extremely important environmental protection instrument is being applied to strategies, changes and complemented strategies. And I am glad that you respected this procedure because otherwise I believe we could have problems with both the European Union and the European Commission, given the fact that the strategic environmental impact assessment is one of the most important instruments on which the European Commission pays particular attention. When we talk about strategies, it is clear to all of us that the plans of all plans, i.e. framework plans, and of course that the strategic impact assessment on the environment is extremely important to define any strategy. I am warning you at this time that the current strategy is valid until 2015 and that we must actually bring a new strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Croatia, and that for the strategy of the spatial development of the Republic of Croatia it will no longer be possible to carry out only the procedure of assessing the necessity of implementing the strategic assessment, that at a very early stage you are thinking about starting with a strategic impact assessment on the environment because the strategic assessment is a very complicated mechanism and the implementation itself takes a minimum of 6 months, and given the fact that we need to bring the strategy to 2015, please consider calculating that time. The fact is that these amendments and amendments to the strategy are in some way being introduced by some very important infrastructure projects that all subject to the environmental impact assessment process and for which it will be necessary to implement when we are going to do a new strategy and strategic environmental impact assessment. Of course, some of these projects are already more or less implemented, so here's a colleague who's already had a chance to talk about the Peljesk Bridge. Then, of course, we have rail traffic, we also have maritime traffic. And of course, what interests me most from the environmental protection aspect is this pipeline transport, i.e. pipelines, products and pipelines, and I would like to point out that in some ways I was puzzled by the fact that we have a reversible pipeline here, given the fact that the environmental impact assessment process for the Adria project, i.e. for a reversible pipeline, has shown that this operation is not acceptable to the environment. Also in these notes concerning pipeline traffic, gas supply from Russia is one option, but other options should be provided for in order to diversify and independence on only one supplier and only one pipeline. For these reasons is supported by the project Adria LNG, the new terminal... and the pipeline which is absolutely fine, but I want to draw your attention to the fact that the Adria LNG project no longer exists since last year when they asked for an extension of the validity of the solution to the acceptability of environmental procedures, this project is actually suspended. So as Adria LNG no longer exists, we can only talk about LNG terminal on the island of Krk today. One more thing, I think you should have, however, seen in these changes and additions to the Spatial Development Strategy, some projects of a slightly different type, such as the supply of certain locations..., therefore compressed with natural gas, given the fact that in certain areas and Dalmatia, especially on islands, the realisation of such projects is extremely important because it does not require the construction of very expensive and complicated infrastructure, and it enables quality gas supply as a highly important energy in certain remote areas. And finally, I want to say that I will support this document and just draw attention once again to the need to carry out a strategic environmental impact assessment for the Spatial Development Strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41483	Thank you. We have three replicas. Zoran Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41484	Dear fellow Members, I am extremely pleased that you are, as you yourself have said, calmly now, but this strategy must indeed be in line with the environmental impact of protection, and I am more interested among other things in this strategy, as in the amendment and addition of the Strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia is particularly marked Pelješki bridge as one political decision which is financed as we have heard from the pre-accession funds of the European Union. But I am interested in coming from Slavonia, where the 5c railway corridor was formed. I am also interested in the pipeline and gas pipeline, which means in the spatial planning strategy itself, given that there is road corridor 5c, so for me it is one of the essential importance that exactly the entire municipal infrastructure goes along with these corridors, the exemption of Đakov and Vinkovac from the whole and the pipeline and the pipeline. So that one large majority of the central part of Slavonia is left without these main highway pipelines, except that Djakovo already has the gasification that was made, which was made in Vinkovci, but I believe that it would be far easier and more cost-effective for the state to have an environmental impact just to build such a single facility with already existing corridors. So, both rail and road.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41485	Next line, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41486	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My dear colleague Holly would be very interested in me and I would like to ask Mrs. Secretary if she can provide us with an assessment of the need to make a strategic environmental impact assessment. And for two reasons, first of all. Namely, the strategy itself says that a passage will be added: "In the area of the state, including the area of the Adriatic with an epicontinental belt and the mainland part of the state, it is possible to explore hydrocarbons in the areas of potential oil and gas sites without previously planned locations." So I am interested in such an assessment that has indicated that there is no need to do a strategic environmental impact assessment on one side. On the other hand, what you yourself asked as a question, and this is a question of what allows this strategy to re-use, i.e. changing the pipeline from one-way to reversible, which is also the question at the Committee's session whether this possibility raises the question of the activation of ADRIA. So here I am, because we know what the environmental impact assessment was regarding the construction of the ADRIA system is now opening up the possibility with this strategy, I am not saying that the ADRIA project will be returned but we are leaving the possibility very open, I would be very interested in this assessment which says that for these two important strategic energy projects in the Republic of Croatia there is no need, that they can be directly included in the strategy without making a strategic environmental impact assessment for these two very important projects. So I'd be happier if with this strategy of this kind, I'd say, for a short time, 4 or 5 sentences of reasoning that have been delivered to us and this assessment that would very probably also disprove us in these doubts and doubts that I've set out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41487	Replication response, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41488	Dear colleagues Bačić and you and I know well, probably do not know the majority of the Croatian public, that the process of the need to assess the implementation of the strategic environmental impact assessment is defined by the Environmental Protection Act as we are popularly speaking to the WHO in Article 57 and where it is said that plans and programmes, therefore, and strategies relating to the state level of decisions on the necessity of the environmental impact assessment process are carried out by the Ministry of Environment and Nature, i.e. in the case of low-level plans and programmes, this assessment is carried out at a lower or county level. I assume that after sending this request to the Ministry of Environment and Nature of Procedure, the Ministry of Construction was next, to ask the county departments, or the county departments dealing with this problem, and that they were asked to take an opinion on whether a strategic environmental impact assessment was necessary for this document or not, and that most of the county offices had said that it was not necessary and that, on this basis, the Ministry of Environment and Nature had adopted such an opinion. This would be in line both at the end and on the Regulation on the implementation of the environmental impact assessment procedure. I assume that such a procedure has also been respected by the Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection, i.e. the Ministry of Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41489	Young Marelić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41490	Thank you. Comrade Holly, you said well that in the strategy proposed to connect this part of the south, or bridge to the bridge. I'm surprised when the county decided to ban the crossing or construction of the port and less Luke Komarna because we know the port was built on Peljesac. This increases transport costs so that Dubrovnik residents and the Dubrovnik coast as well as Konavla will have to drive two hours higher. So, he must be on the ferry for an hour Ploche-Trpanj plus the whole Peljesac. So it's going to have a connection that's going to take two hours longer. It's going to be a big cost for the cattle, the live cattle he's carrying. Also, for trucks that drive more than 10,000 euros worth that will cause... big problems. And I'm surprised to see today's behavior when we say that we're going to do it in the way we imagined it, and HDZ, when the Sprlje brought development plans to Dubrovnik-Neretva County voted against the plans where that bridge was. I mean, holding on, let's work, and I think the ministry did a good assessment, and we'll all be happy together. But making a decision in the county that the county makes a decision to shorten this time so that it can go into office and to the satisfaction of all residents of the county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41491	Thank you. Minister Anka's closing statement, Mr. Taritash. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41492	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Since the last discussion was on the subject of an opinion on the need to carry out an evaluation and on the need for a strategic environmental impact assessment, as here in your schedule it was all a little hasty I took the original with me, I will be very happy to deliver and give to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature under the class 011-01/13-01/79 of 25 March 2013 on our request, which was then much longer, the need for an assessment of the need for an environmental impact assessment... the strategy conducts an assessment of the need for an assessment delivers an opinion. Once they have implemented the procedure so that these amendments and complement strategies are not subject to the above mentioned procedures, I will copy them and be very happy to deliver them so that there will be no relation to this dilemma. On purpose, I also spoke in the opening statement about the need to assess the strategic impact assessment on the environment because it was also a debate on committees, and this was discussed in order to respond immediately. As far as the new environmental law is concerned, so we have been working in accordance with the existing Environmental Protection Act, since the new environmental law is in the parliamentary procedure, and we are in the design of a new spatial arrangement strategy, the first step is to strategically assess environmental impact for the simple reason that in this law is something that was also on our ministry's proposal to carry out strategic environmental impact assessments as a preliminary issue in the design of spatial plans and strategies and we are doing so. And we've started our activities, and we're about to open a contract for the designers. I'm very fortunate to have had the opportunity to be educated in the Netherlands and work on a strategic environmental impact assessment and have in this sense enough knowledge and experience. So, compared to the amendment and the addition of the Strategy of Spatial Arrangement, we have an opinion where it clearly says that there is no need to carry out a strategic environmental impact assessment or an assessment of the need for environmental impact assessment, and all individual requirements are subject to individual environmental impact assessments, and what Commissioner Holy said to me in drawing up a new strategy first and key issue will be the strategic environmental impact assessment and then everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41493	Thank you. Replica, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41494	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'm pleased, Madam Minister, that you have such an assessment of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. I am also interested in the way the Ministry of Environment and Nature has assessed that in order to explore new locations for the exploitation of hydrocarbons, which means oil and gas in the southern Adriatic area, somewhere south of Korčula and Mljet, there is no need for a strategic environmental impact assessment to be carried out. You know very well what one of the wells did in the Gulf of Mexico three years ago and what dangers tourism in Croatia would be in the event that one of these wells would be one of the most demanding industrial processes of oil and oil gas exploitation in order to come to me and define it as a project of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia, and the Ministry of Environment would say that it should not even work as a strategic environmental impact assessment. I believe you have it with you but I would like that if I can get it and that the Ministry of Environment at least the public is aware of it, familiar with how and how it assessed that for a reversible oil pipeline we should not be made, so I probably don't really need it, but for this part that applies to new locations for the use of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, it doesn't need that, I'm really a little surprised. But I believe what you've said and read, so I'm interested in this process at the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41495	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41496	I can only answer, so I will deliver a copy of this about further activities to the esteemed representative Bačić you will have to consult the competent ministry. But I'd like to repeat this, we now have a strategic environmental impact assessment in law, and we have an environmental impact assessment. The strategic environmental impact assessment is a strategy of the programmes in accordance with the current provisions of the law and is an assessment of the need for a strategic assessment if it is about amending and supplementing the strategy and programme. But that means that it's just being strategically watched and then every single procedure has a normal environmental impact assessment procedure, and that's the difference, and now I might get a little bit into the domain of each other's ministry, but maybe it's a good thing to say a few sentences anyway. What is the novelty in the new environmental law compared to the current one? So compared to the current we have some strategies we have some programs we have some plans and after an environmental impact assessment can happen that this operation is not acceptable and then these spatial plans have to be changed. In the future, the environmental impact assessment from the planning aspect will be a strategic basis for creating spatial plans so that it will then only be evaluated. If I were to say it briefly, the strategy will assess whether or not the factories can say that the chimney factory is not 42m but 66m, so in the future it's going to be a difference. Today, it is not until the end of this process, and I suppose that the competent ministry from that aspect could have assessed it this way and then given the possibility that this assessment would go for the simple reason that the interventions would not be possible either by the basis of the strategy and the programme directly but by the basic spatial plans of the county. The particular spatial plan of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, which we have already installed in the strategy, was carried out for it by a strategic environmental impact assessment, so I guess that was one of the reasons we are talking about these procedures in Krk why the ministry decided to do so. But now I've used it to maybe say a step further than I think it's good enough that we all know about the future together.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41497	Zoran Vinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41498	Your Honor, Madam Minister, I'll repeat what I've replicated to the MPs, Holly. First of all, it is clear to me that most of these changes were made according to plans of public companies or companies owned by the Republic of Croatia but which, for example, were made. The reason aside from these, I say politically, for example. at the gas pipeline, the pipeline of Slavonski Brod-Valpova so through the terrain and the configuration of the terrain that will require exceptional environmental protection, at the same time through the electricity system we have a compound that goes through the heart of Slavonia, so through Djakovo. We have a built corridor, road corridor. And these amendments and additions to the Strategy of Spatial Arrangement of the Republic of Croatia according to these maps and the explanation of these maps give up the railway corridor and the merger of Hungary down with the port of Ploče because it is visible through this map on page 7 in the light of this Act. And I think, right next to these 5C corridors, the main corridors were supposed to go. And the pipeline and the pipeline. So it's not only this heart of Slavonia that's the problem, but there's also the problem with the Baring that remains the appendix again. So, without any connection except through road corridor 5C. So, no rail corridors, no pipelines, no gas pipelines, only through the railway corridor and through the arms of the electricity system is Baranja connected to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41499	Answer to the replica of Minister Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41500	If I may answer your question. The spatial planning strategy is an integral document that unites the strategies of individual sectors. So in making changes and supplementing strategies as well... We are consulting the railway sector, which is responsible for the road, which is responsible for the pipeline, the products and everything else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with the imputations we received from them, it is embedded in the Strategy of Spatial Planning, the main corridors, which does not mean that some secondary corridors will not be in line with the spatial plans of the municipalities and cities. So, what is the competent ministry and the public enterprise responsible for this delivery as a proposal we have installed and carried out all the procedures that are and that was in that part of our task. Therefore, this Strategy combines all sectoral strategies and railways and transport and air and water and everything else. And he's in one place. So we're looking for imputes, imputements that we've got installed. In the future, therefore, I am all the time stating what the esteemed representative Bačić said there on several occasions, we have indeed launched the creation of a new spatial planning strategy and have sought the imputations of all the competent authorities from all the strategies, which means Croatia's development by 2030, so that in the future the new document will have as little resistance as possible in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41501	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the decision later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41502	Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Strategy of the Spatial Arrangement of the Republic of Croatia. The debate on the proposal is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a strategy. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 2 abstentions, have been decided on amendments and additions to the Republic of Croatia's spatial regulation strategy in the text as proposed by the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41503	We move to: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on patents, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 367; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, he will begin to explain the proposal by Minister of Science, Education and Sports Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41504	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your honors and for your representatives. It is a law that is part of the European package, the patent law, harmonising with the European Union rules, which is why it is in an emergency procedure. At first, I stress that there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget. We are in line with this law with several essential regulations. This is a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the introduction of certificates and additional protection for medicinal products intended for human and animal use. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I Regulation on the forced licensing of patents relating to the production of pharmaceutical products for export to countries with public health problems. In addition, the Law amends the existing provision which requires the appointment of the president and members of the Board of Appeal as well as the supervision of their work to be entrusted to the competent ministry, which is the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. And regulations are also introduced into the law that regulate the gender neutrality of expressions. The Legislative Committee has submitted two amendments that we accept and become an integral part of the text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41505	Would the Committee's representatives like to take the floor? No, I'm opening a debate. The first is SDP and counterpart Drazenko Pandek's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41506	I thank the respected vice president of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Therefore, these amendments and amendments to the laws are mainly technical and therefore ensure the implementation of the EU Directives in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia and ensure the implementation of the regulations. There is also a legitimate request for an emergency procedure for the adoption of this Act. It is also an opportunity here to bring the text of the law into line with gender equality policy. In accordance with the adopted national gender equality policy for 2011 to 2015. And so these changes and additions are regulated by the gender neutrality of expressions that we welcome and encourage in any case... Such amendments shall be implemented as soon as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law shall also ensure the implementation of the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the jurisdiction of resolution ministries or other central state bodies to appoint occasional, professional and advisory bodies. As well as overseeing their work. It should be pointed out that Croatian legislation in this area has already been in line with the EU acquis, but the text of the regulation has therefore been transposed into national legislation. As Croatia enters the EU, on 1 July of this year, the texts of the regulation must therefore no longer be contained in national legislation but should only ensure that national legislation is harmonised in order to ensure the implementation of the regulation. And here it does. Otherwise, the right of intellectual property involving patent matter was therefore seven of the 35 chapters to which national legislation was divided in the process of assessing the compliance of national legislation with European Union legislation. And after an analytical examination, or so on. ... the Commission considered the provisions of the patent law to be largely in line with the acquis of the European Union in 2006. In the negotiating process, Croatia also accepted the legal acquis of the European Union covered by Chapter 7 and said it is ready to ensure its full implementation until the moment of accession to the European Union. The Republic of Croatia has also undertaken to ensure the direct application of the EU regulation after Croatia's entry into the European Union, which will take place on 1 July, which requires the establishment of a competent authority for the implementation of its tasks. Therefore, the regulations for which it is necessary to establish this and in the field of patent law are Regulation No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since many... of the legal text, as someone read this legal text to the general public, are dry and incomprehensible, might take advantage of the opportunity to point out that the purpose... of the evidence of additional protection is to extend the duration of patent protection for the product that has been placed on the market in order to compensate the patent holder for the time for which he could not market for his product due to the long-term clinical trials he had to carry out for the purposes of registering a new medicinal product. Thus, the possibility of extending the patent to more than 20 years by introducing a certificate of additional protection of medicinal products intended for humans or animals and plant protection products which are therefore already protected by patents and during which it was necessary to obtain authorisation for placing the product on the market for a reduced period of 5 years. The additional protection testimony is therefore to extend the time limit of the patent to another 5 years. The exception is that the duration of the licence may be extended for another 6 months in case the patent is recognised as a paediatric medicinal product, if the medicinal product has been granted marketing authorisation in all Member States of the European Union and therefore only once more. Speaking of the need for legal texts to be as understandable to the general public as possible, here may be a personal remark on this example. I am not a linguist, but, for example, when we speak the words of the testimony used here in defining the concepts of the said regulations, I would point out that the word of the testimony is commonly used as a name for a document that proves a certain qualification or condition, or identity. The word confirmation or certificate is more commonly used as a name for a document that proves certain facts. It seems to me that right here is the case that when we talk about the English name abbreviations SPC or sub-natural protection of the certification which is also not the original English... we are talking about Latinism, that is, internationalism and... which therefore comes in both English and Croatian from Latin, comes... two words of certus-defined, reliable, secure and facere-doing. It seems to me that we very often avoid the use of latinisms that are therefore essentially internationalisms or europeanisms, perhaps too rigidly, we are afraid to use them already our... which may often not be suitable enough for a particular name of the document and thus carry a certain amount of misunderstanding and difficult understanding of the legal provisions. I would personally put a certificate here that would, in my opinion, be more appropriate than a testimony to the specific terms used in these Regulations. As for... licences relating to the production of pharmaceutical products for export to countries with public health problems following... 6 The Doha Declaration on Access to Medicinal Products is the issue of... patent license relating to the production of pharmaceutical products for export to countries with public health problems. Accordingly, the World Trade Organisation's main council also adopted a decision on the implementation of point 6 of the Doha Declaration on the TRIPS Public Health Agreement. The TRIPS Agreement is a abbreviations in English which means an agreement on trade aspects of intellectual rights.... Therefore, under... conditions, decisions shall be exempt from certain obligations relating to the issue of... the licence referred to in the TRIPS agreement in order to meet the needs of members of the world organisation with insufficient production capacity. The purpose of the Regulation is to ensure the authenticity of the conditions for issuing... a production licence and... pharmaceutical products where such products are intended for export to all Member States in order to avoid distortion of competition between entities on the single market. The Regulation also seeks to ensure the prevention of imports into the territory of the Community of pharmaceutical products produced in accordance with this Decision. Therefore, the regulation establishes uniform procedures for issuing... patent licences and additional protection certificates which contribute to the effective implementation of the decision-making system. I would take this opportunity to point out that the possibility... of a licence will be considered in a wide range of cases where the purpose of the issue is similar to that of this Doha agreement. So since these amendments and additions to the patent law are necessary for the harmonisation of Croatian rights with the acquis, as they bring other improvements and alignments to other regulations, the SDP club of course supports this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41507	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41508	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on patents, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 367. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee adopted by the proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 101 votes for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Patent Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41509	And now we will unite the debate - Final bill on medicines, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 381 - Final proposal for a law on medical products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 382 Proposers of the Law are the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and Health and Social Policy. You received the report at the session. Introducing the laws will be explained by Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Marian Cesarik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41510	Thank you very much. Therefore, the proposed Medicinal Products Act allows for the implementation of regulations relating to the powers of the European Commission to approve medicinal products by centralised procedure, the granting of authorisation for medicinal products for the treatment of severe and rare diseases and medicinal products for use in children. By joining the EU, the Republic of Croatia becomes part of the EU's single internal market. Legal persons who carried out the activities prescribed by that law in accordance with the applicable law had to have their head office in the Republic of Croatia. This legislative proposal allows for the exercise of the activities of natural and legal persons established in the EU, i.e. the European Economic Area. The proposed law introduces quite new concepts such as the introduction of medicines, drug intervention, parallel imports and parallel trafficking of medicines to a large extent. Imports of medicinal products are considered only imports from third countries and for the first time conditions for the production and transport of active substances are laid down. In order to implement the law proposed, it is not necessary to provide additional financial resources in the state budget. For the proposal of the Medical Products Act, it can be said that taking into account the need for full harmonisation of domestic legislation with EU rules on quality and safe medical products as a product of particular importance for human health, the proposed legislation allows for the adaptation of EU domestic legal legislation. The law lays down requirements for medical products, clinical trials of medical products, the production of medical products, conformity assessment and the basis for conformity assessment bodies, registration of medical products, transport, advertising, vigilation and supervision of medical products. The provisions of this law apply to medical products and their accessories, including in vitro diagnostic medical products and active medical products for installation. The proposed law is conceptually and contentally divided into specific areas, allowing easier application of the proposed solutions. The proposed Law on Medical Products allows the functioning of the single internal market of the EU, allowing natural and legal persons to carry out their activities on equal terms, whether based in one of the EU or in the Republic of Croatia. The implementation of the proposed law will not require additional funding from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41511	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Vice President Željko Reiner. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41512	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. So here we have two laws in front of us that actually mean harmonising our legislation with European legislation. We have so far had laws that I dare say from myself very early days of the Croatian state were avant-garde in some way when it comes to medicines because we had in the 1990s laws that were actually in the good part followed by the EU directive and unlike many other countries in transition, we have very well solved the area. So, fortunately, there were never any problems in Croatia. And these laws are, in fact, I'd say just aligning with the fact that here we are entering the EU for some less than three weeks and, of course, we have to follow some other rules. There will, of course, be further adjustments to other regulations under current EU legislation, but what is crucial in these two laws is the free movement of goods. In fact, that part of the law is fundamental, and that is why it is obvious that this is a new law, which is to actually ensure the flow of medical products and medicines in relation to different countries within the EU. The law applies, this on medicinal products of course, to medicinal products, and this on medicinal products, of course, relating to clinical trials of medicinal products, to the production of their products, to the assessment of conformity and to the conformity of conformity of conformity assessment bodies, to the registration of medical products, to transport, to advertising, to the vigulation and of course to the supervision of those products. When we talk about medical products, it also refers to accessories, it includes in vitro diagnostic medical products and active medical products for installation, and I say all of these were, in fact, motivated to allow the functioning of the single internal market within the EU, allowing both natural and legal persons to carry out activities on equal terms, regardless of whether they are based in any of the EU countries or in Croatia, which is different of course from the situation in which we were so far away when we were not part of the EU. I would like to highlight especially some aspects that I think are very important to highlight, which is a question that has been resolved in this law, which, fortunately, Croatia has dealt with before, which is that it is not allowed to buy medicines online. This is extremely important because on the black market it is right on the Internet, e-mails from various advertisers, etc. medicines that do not have marketing authorisation or in serious countries and of course not in Croatia, such as they are always questionable quality and safety. And in fact, in many developed countries, countries that we sometimes hold to be regulatory and in control of Croatia, we actually have systems that exist that allow access to a huge number of users just like this. Today, there is indeed a vast illegal market for counterfeit products that can sometimes be dangerous to the health of patients, at least it will not help them. Since the Internet is not in any way controlled, it is not possible to verify the quality or origin of the medicinal products that are being advertised there. And that's something that actually leads to user exposure being killed by health and at least risk, the risk of health. And again, I think it's very good that it's also in this Law, but even in the laws so far, it's not really, in some way, under quotes to say "liberalised" and made it possible for citizens to have access to these medicines. Which sometimes seems attractive. Because in fact, of course these drugs are not, often advertised as much cheaper, more accessible, etc. But it's actually a serious death. Both medicinal products and medicinal products must be absolutely safe for users and it is a fundamental approach and the principle that the benefit of their use must always be greater than the potential risks. So every country and so Croatia must carry out very strict supervision of medicines and medical products before and after they are placed on the market. Besides, that's why there are organs to say so as in Croatia... all safety information on medicinal products and medicinal products available to Croatian patients must be made public and recommended. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's good that it's still quality-regulated. Of course, there is always a question of what individual sublegal acts will be like because it is not irrelevant. And I hope that the sublegal acts and acts of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance which are also not entirely irrelevant but are, in turn, very important will actually be in line with what is declared politics and the Croatian state. And what will guarantee not only the safety of medicines and medical products for Croatian patients but also that they get the best quality medicines and medical products for the most appropriate price I would say. The following will be very important how to solve what is Croatia's finely said priceing, i.e. the pricing of medical products and medicines because there lies I would say a series of traps possible from traps that in the desire to get as cheap a product as possible go to one extreme and then fail to achieve market supply to certain medicines or medical products. And of course to go from the other side to the other extreme so that Croatian citizens, of course, through the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the State Budget, pay medicines and medical products more expensive than they should. This is therefore an entire spectrum that is possible and in which it will certainly be very important for the Croatian Health Insurance Institute and, of course, the Ministry of Health as well as, in some ways, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute has the right way and the right balance between these two extremes to ensure what we all want and this is a safe supply of medicines and medical products for all Croatian citizens who need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41513	Thank you very much. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. That would have ended the session today. And tomorrow we would start at 9.30 with the Proposal for a Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European Affairs. Thank you very much, goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41514	Final proposal of the Drug Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 381. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 101 votes, we have agreed to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like the representative of the proposed Deputy Minister of Health, Marijan Cesarek, to explain the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41515	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 163 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall submit the following amendment to the Final Proposal for the Law on Medicinal Products, in Article 158, paragraph 1 of the words of the Agency, the point shall be replaced by a comma and shall add the words of the EMA cartoons to the European Commission. The proposed amendment constitutes full compliance with Article 106. Directive 2001/83/EC concerning the obligation of the marketing authorisation holder to report in writing to the European Commission on the intention of public provision of pharmacovigilance information to the European Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41516	Thank you, too. I am opening a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Is anyone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 102 votes for the adopted amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it has become an integral part of the final draft of the law. We are going to the amendments of the Croatian Parliament Legislatives Committee. Amendment No 1 to Article 243 Just one, yeah. Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41517	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41518	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 102 votes, the Law on Medicinal Products in the text has been passed, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41519	And now we will unite the debate - Final bill on medicines, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 381 - Final proposal for a law on medical products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 382 Proposers of the Law are the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and Health and Social Policy. You received the report at the session. Introducing the laws will be explained by Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Marian Cesarik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41520	Thank you very much. Therefore, the proposed Medicinal Products Act allows for the implementation of regulations relating to the powers of the European Commission to approve medicinal products by centralised procedure, the granting of authorisation for medicinal products for the treatment of severe and rare diseases and medicinal products for use in children. By joining the EU, the Republic of Croatia becomes part of the EU's single internal market. Legal persons who carried out the activities prescribed by that law in accordance with the applicable law had to have their head office in the Republic of Croatia. This legislative proposal allows for the exercise of the activities of natural and legal persons established in the EU, i.e. the European Economic Area. The proposed law introduces quite new concepts such as the introduction of medicines, drug intervention, parallel imports and parallel trafficking of medicines to a large extent. Imports of medicinal products are considered only imports from third countries and for the first time conditions for the production and transport of active substances are laid down. In order to implement the law proposed, it is not necessary to provide additional financial resources in the state budget. For the proposal of the Medical Products Act, it can be said that taking into account the need for full harmonisation of domestic legislation with EU rules on quality and safe medical products as a product of particular importance for human health, the proposed legislation allows for the adaptation of EU domestic legal legislation. The law lays down requirements for medical products, clinical trials of medical products, the production of medical products, conformity assessment and the basis for conformity assessment bodies, registration of medical products, transport, advertising, vigilation and supervision of medical products. The provisions of this law apply to medical products and their accessories, including in vitro diagnostic medical products and active medical products for installation. The proposed law is conceptually and contentally divided into specific areas, allowing easier application of the proposed solutions. The proposed Law on Medical Products allows the functioning of the single internal market of the EU, allowing natural and legal persons to carry out their activities on equal terms, whether based in one of the EU or in the Republic of Croatia. The implementation of the proposed law will not require additional funding from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41521	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Vice President Željko Reiner. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41522	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. So here we have two laws in front of us that actually mean harmonising our legislation with European legislation. We have so far had laws that I dare say from myself very early days of the Croatian state were avant-garde in some way when it comes to medicines because we had in the 1990s laws that were actually in the good part followed by the EU directive and unlike many other countries in transition, we have very well solved the area. So, fortunately, there were never any problems in Croatia. And these laws are, in fact, I'd say just aligning with the fact that here we are entering the EU for some less than three weeks and, of course, we have to follow some other rules. There will, of course, be further adjustments to other regulations under current EU legislation, but what is crucial in these two laws is the free movement of goods. In fact, that part of the law is fundamental, and that is why it is obvious that this is a new law, which is to actually ensure the flow of medical products and medicines in relation to different countries within the EU. The law applies, this on medicinal products of course, to medicinal products, and this on medicinal products, of course, relating to clinical trials of medicinal products, to the production of their products, to the assessment of conformity and to the conformity of conformity of conformity assessment bodies, to the registration of medical products, to transport, to advertising, to the vigulation and of course to the supervision of those products. When we talk about medical products, it also refers to accessories, it includes in vitro diagnostic medical products and active medical products for installation, and I say all of these were, in fact, motivated to allow the functioning of the single internal market within the EU, allowing both natural and legal persons to carry out activities on equal terms, regardless of whether they are based in any of the EU countries or in Croatia, which is different of course from the situation in which we were so far away when we were not part of the EU. I would like to highlight especially some aspects that I think are very important to highlight, which is a question that has been resolved in this law, which, fortunately, Croatia has dealt with before, which is that it is not allowed to buy medicines online. This is extremely important because on the black market it is right on the Internet, e-mails from various advertisers, etc. medicines that do not have marketing authorisation or in serious countries and of course not in Croatia, such as they are always questionable quality and safety. And in fact, in many developed countries, countries that we sometimes hold to be regulatory and in control of Croatia, we actually have systems that exist that allow access to a huge number of users just like this. Today, there is indeed a vast illegal market for counterfeit products that can sometimes be dangerous to the health of patients, at least it will not help them. Since the Internet is not in any way controlled, it is not possible to verify the quality or origin of the medicinal products that are being advertised there. And that's something that actually leads to user exposure being killed by health and at least risk, the risk of health. And again, I think it's very good that it's also in this Law, but even in the laws so far, it's not really, in some way, under quotes to say "liberalised" and made it possible for citizens to have access to these medicines. Which sometimes seems attractive. Because in fact, of course these drugs are not, often advertised as much cheaper, more accessible, etc. But it's actually a serious death. Both medicinal products and medicinal products must be absolutely safe for users and it is a fundamental approach and the principle that the benefit of their use must always be greater than the potential risks. So every country and so Croatia must carry out very strict supervision of medicines and medical products before and after they are placed on the market. Besides, that's why there are organs to say so as in Croatia... all safety information on medicinal products and medicinal products available to Croatian patients must be made public and recommended. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's good that it's still quality-regulated. Of course, there is always a question of what individual sublegal acts will be like because it is not irrelevant. And I hope that the sublegal acts and acts of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance which are also not entirely irrelevant but are, in turn, very important will actually be in line with what is declared politics and the Croatian state. And what will guarantee not only the safety of medicines and medical products for Croatian patients but also that they get the best quality medicines and medical products for the most appropriate price I would say. The following will be very important how to solve what is Croatia's finely said priceing, i.e. the pricing of medical products and medicines because there lies I would say a series of traps possible from traps that in the desire to get as cheap a product as possible go to one extreme and then fail to achieve market supply to certain medicines or medical products. And of course to go from the other side to the other extreme so that Croatian citizens, of course, through the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the State Budget, pay medicines and medical products more expensive than they should. This is therefore an entire spectrum that is possible and in which it will certainly be very important for the Croatian Health Insurance Institute and, of course, the Ministry of Health as well as, in some ways, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute has the right way and the right balance between these two extremes to ensure what we all want and this is a safe supply of medicines and medical products for all Croatian citizens who need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41523	Thank you very much. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. That would have ended the session today. And tomorrow we would start at 9.30 with the Proposal for a Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European Affairs. Thank you very much, goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41524	Final proposal of the Medical Products Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 382. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like the Deputy Minister of Health of the Honorable Marian Cesarek to show himself. Amendment number 1 to Article 50, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41525	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41526	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 2 to Article 63
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41527	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41528	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 3 to Article 86, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41529	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41530	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 4 to Article 94
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41531	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-11-0.u41532	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 102 votes, the Law on Medical Products in the text is adopted, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. We continue with plenary session, 8th session of the Croatian Parliament. It is on the agenda - Proposal for a Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European Affairs, first reading, PZ No. 373 The legislator is the Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply, those shall be the provisions of Article 144 to Article 150. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received reports from these committee working bodies at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Peja Grbin, Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go, Your Honor.
