ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56397	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, first of all, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club. And let this break last as long as it takes until the interior minister speaks to the Croatian MPs, and the amount of this text that came out today in "Free Dalmatia" we discover four plans of conspiracy against the state summit. I dare say one crawling attempt at a coup. In which some representatives of the Croatian Parliament participated. [[Hold on, hold on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56398	Take it easy. All right, take it easy. If we were to set a break for every sign in the paper, we wouldn't be able to do anything. Comrade Novak, here you go. Wait till I hear another question. [[So wait, so I don't know what's more important, sir.]] Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56399	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, on behalf of the Croatian Labour Representatives' Club, we are looking for a 15-minute break because of yesterday's decision to amend the concession agreement for the Zagreb airport. Since media have contradictory statements about what the contract means, there is a reasonable doubt that these changes will cause irreparable damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56400	Okay, I figured, like this, I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. What HDSSB? Let's go HDSSB first. Say, Grubisic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56401	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In relation to the same subject, the amended airport contract and.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56402	I get it. HDZ Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56403	Vice-President for the same reason as the Labour Club, the Croatian Democratic Community Club is looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56404	Okay. Caine for the paper and these three clubs for the government's decision. Ten minutes. We'll continue at 9.45. It's 9:35 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.40 HOURS]] I call upon the representative of the Independent Representatives Club of my colleague Caine to come to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56406	Honorable Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Vukovar Defence Centre had at least three spare options in case the state summit block at the hospital on the day of memory failed. If the prime minister, the president of the state, had managed to break through the official column to the memorial cemetery of the victims of the Homeland War, organisers or organised directors of the headquarters would have blocked their approach to the cemetery itself. There were also detailed variations for return. The first option was to prevent them from leaving the cemetery, the second one included blocking access to their official cars and an organized whistle scarf that was supposed to follow the whole scene. The action was planned by the headquarters and HDZ, and the road blocked the top state officials by a total of 70 members of the 9th Guard Brigade's veterans, Mr. HVIDRA, part of the defenders from Ploč, etc. It's a done quote. If this is exactly what the media is about, and it all matches the gentlemen's MPs with the statements of President Josipovic, in Croatia on the day of remembrance there was an attempt under the quotes of a crawling regiment or something similar. It's the most vile thing, it's the most dangerous thing, it's the worst thing that individuals in Croatia are starting to serve in order to come to power. It was not in Croatia either in 2001, but as diplomats accredited in the Republic of Croatia saw in their eyes and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Now I think they understand why this explosion, the tsunamis of the referendum. I think that today everyone in Croatia is clear who is obstructing, who is destroying, who is causing chaos, who, by policy, is better able to get to power. I also want to say that Croatia is not threatened from outside today, Croatia is not threatened by Serbia, Slovenia, Hungary, Italy, I don't know who, it is threatened from within. And today, citizens are either on the defender of the defence of institutions and constitutional values or you're with those purgatory. What you gentlemen were throwing at me in Vukovar in 2013, Sanader did something similar in 2001 in Split. In 2001, the difference was, only threatened with the collapse of institutions, and in 2013 you took a step further. In Split, the main speakers were Marin Barisic, archbishop of the Split-Dalmatia, Mr Sanader, today you do not speak but there are those among you who draw the strings. In Split, all of this happened after the arrest of Norc, in Vukovar, because of Cyrillic. The first was convicted of war crimes, and the Cyrillic, Mr. Representative, is as much a Croatian letter as Serbian. It is also true what President Josipovic says, secret services have failed. It is true that the President of the State, the Government, the Parliament are coordinating, their work...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56407	Don't throw it away, let your colleague say... /The speakers speak in the same voice./... Wait a minute. Just a little fellow Cain. Please don't throw Djakic away, you won't block your colleague Cain, we're not in Vukovar, we're in the Assembly. ... Go ahead, go ahead. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56408	The president of the state and the government coordinate the work of intelligence services, appoint a director, we know who the principal was, but directors choose people on level two and level three and those on level two and third, I assume they're closer to those who put them there somewhere in the mid-200s than the team in power. And I also want to believe that the entire free-thinking Croatia will be on the defender of democratic and European values today. You can change the government in the election, maybe it will happen, it's all legitimate, but you don't have any gentlemen in HDZ to destroy anyone. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56409	Who will speak for the Croatian Labourists? Young Novak. ... /The noise in the hall./... Please, colleagues, calm down, let's hear what Comrade Mladen Novak has to say on behalf of his club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56410	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Before these days, we were bringing in the first rebalancing of the state budget and beyond that the State budget for 2014 and quite often were mentioned stealing court proceedings against members of the former governments. I absolutely agree with the fact that this has to be settled, as much property as possible, the one that is found to have been stolen, and that part in my opinion is not at all controversial. However, this Assembly in this assembly practically transferred all its powers to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government manages and disposes of the property of the Republic of Croatia, and in our case it is shortest said the Government has all the power to sell out the property of the Republic of Croatia and, in addition, all the powers we have transferred to the Government I ask you and where are the results. The results are simply gone, and I wonder what happens next when we sell out all this public debt remains as large as it is. What are we going to leave for future generations? Where is this political responsibility? Yeah, that's for laughing at the term of even political responsibility obviously aside. We should at least be here to make life the best for the citizens or our reality to make their lives bearable, not to share them with ideological topics. And there would be wherever and where more meaningful to turn which is why we are here because I said to make the people's lives bearable. The Croatian Government has shown its position towards this Parliament specifically on the Transport Committee when more than a year and a half ago, more than a year and a half ago, the first request to appear as a representative of the ministry in order to organise a thematic session on the situation in the portfolio. In this portfolio are Croatian railways, Croatian highways, Croatian mail, airports, including Zagreb Airport, for which a change in the concession contract was signed yesterday. We have very diametrically opposed views in the media, and none of the government's representatives found it appropriate to address either the committee or this Parliament and to explain what it was about. I think that's highly unacceptable. I would remind you that when we adopted the budget we mentioned on several occasions here the amounts paid by the Republic of Croatia to concessionaries for the reason that there is not enough traffic on these roads. We also have a release from VAT, so let's say the public thinks it must know that for the road Zagreb – Macelj for 2014 we allocate more than 95 million kuna. We pay the concessionaire. For BINA, BINA Istria is 210 million each year. What kind of concession contracts are these? What are all our governments doing and this and why the public must not know? We asked to present all the concession agreements on the board so far, no response. No one found it appropriate to at least let the board know about it. The chairman of the ruling coalition's committee requested a thematic session on maritime goods. The SDP colleagues sought a thematic session on their topics, as well. Not once. What is this government's relationship to this Parliament? And you gave them unlimited power, transferred all the powers practically whatever they wanted to do with the property of the Republic of Croatia. And then in a contract signed with a concessionaire for Zagreb Airport, if a concessionary violates the rights of workers, the worker has the right to contact the concessionor or ministry. She's really right! What citizen in the Republic of Croatia does not have the right to contact the Ministry?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56411	Time's up. Thank you. Who's going to speak on behalf of the HDSSB club? Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56412	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm not talking about Mr. Caine's newspaper inscriptions, but I answered, and I raised my hand on the subject that Mr. Novak was exhibiting. And if we looked at our healthy eyes, healthier than at that time, but now after several years on Croatian television, we watched informative shows, so to our public television where there are, these shows were made statements by the former prime minister and Mr. Mayor of Zagreb on a joint action to build 220m euros in Zagreb Airport where the state of Croatia and the city of Zagreb will participate in equal amounts. What do we have today? So, from these famous announcements today we have a notice of a cancellation of the concession, and then the entry into a dispute that we have already paid for such disputes a lot with both Strabag and with some other companies... for tunnels, etc. Or it's a setup to get someone to get their money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so indeed, a man must begin to doubt such things, that somehow it would have been deliberately or quietly done, and here are the workers of the Zagreb Airport, even though the contract itself says that a colleague, Novak, said that workers in the event of anything in connection with the concession, have the right to contact the beneficiaries of concessions as if we parliamentary representatives or any citizen of the Republic of Croatia had no right to know what it says in the concession contract. Why should only the employees of the Zagreb Airport, not all the other citizens, but they primarily care about knowing what it says and how the concession contract is implemented. The other day in the debate about the Zagreb Airport, I said it was actually some kind of fax company. Many advisers are taken and paid for privatisation and monetization, to dozens of millions of kunas who will advise on how to monetize, whom to give to monetize Croatian highways. So it's about traffic again. Then sell Croatian Post Office, Croatia Insurance, Croatia Airlines also because here are the Chinese money to buy we saw the performance of the prime minister where he was not known in Romania I think China buys, or the Chinese buy Croatian airlines. Manuka on the plate as well as these concessionaries for the Zagreb Airport. What does the Croatian State have from such concessions and those that are actually here we know from when it has stalled and how we received announcements and directly from the Minister of Transport will be started in the 8th month, so it will be the beginning of the work at 9. so there will be the beginning of the work waiting for the poop until the grass grows. We'll end up canceling the most likely concession, but we'll pay the same as we paid STRABAG and ASTALDI as they call the tunnel construction company, etc. And that there's nothing from work. Just to mention that Zagreb Airport is not the only problem in this country, there is Osijek Airport. Osijek Airport for which there is no tender either. Here, this government has been for two years now, so full of two years, and that Osijek Airport has neither a business development plan nor a concession competition nor anything else. What will happen to this Osijek Airport, which is really problematic but needs Slavonia and Baranja? Indeed, it is difficult to figure out where it goes even though it is to say the strategic priority of the Republic of Croatia, as is the priority of building highways in Slavonia Corridor VC, which is built towards the border with Hungary. I find this disinterest that we have actually given everything to the government of the Republic of Croatia to behave like Louis XIV. The absoluteity of the assets of the Republic of Croatia is not really clear. Thus, in the same way as the strike was announced, i.e. the strike was announced by the employees of the Zagreb Airport for months of strike and proof of Kamenski's workers, and that the parliamentary representatives did not ask or discuss here in this Assembly about these employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56413	Thank you very much. Time's up. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a colleague, Branko Bacic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues and the HDZ Club will not engage in a debate opened by counterpart Cain to discuss newspaper articles in this House I do not know where our end would be. Besides perhaps I expected the HDZ club to open a debate on events in Vukovar in a way that would review the work of secret services. Because about the same event, colleague Cain, we heard one opinion has the president of the state, another opinion has the Prime Minister, so it might be interesting to really examine the truth of what was going on and how they acted in this case the Secret Service. But to return to what I asked for on behalf of the HDZ Club, it is a fact like that of counterpart Novak, on behalf of Labourist, that yesterday at the government meeting of the Republic of Croatia, changed the essential provisions of the concession contract, which was created as a result of a public transparent tender opened by the HDZ Government in November 2011 and that, in this way, by changing the essential items of the concession contract, the item consists of the fact that the concessionary will be freed from the intended traffic in Zagreb Airport while there is no concession fee. According to us at the HDZ Club, this significantly changes the terms of the tender because, for example, if the other applicants knew about this information, their offer to build Zagreb Airport and to manage Zagreb Airport might have been better than the concessionaire who won. I do not want to say that this privileged information was given by the current concessionaire, but if these significant changes were to occur, the procedure should have been stopped and the new competition carried out in new conditions so that all competitors would be in the same position. I don't know if this change in the concession contract that the government accepted at the session yesterday will cause a number of controversy, and in the first place the dissatisfaction and appeal of those who made themselves known under the original terms of the tender. But it is not only the problem of the Croatian government when it comes to the traffic system of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, we are witnessing that these days through ad hoc statements that the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure gives him on the street or where the journalists find him in the Croatian public, and we also representatives of the Croatian Parliament, as well as we members of the National Assembly's board of directors learn that the government will privatise the entire transport system of the Republic without any strategic document that this Parliament should bring and which would be a clear indication to the Government where and how it can go with the transport system because the transport system is exclusively being built and established on the basis of strategic documents, not on the basis of the daily needs for the recovery of the Croatian Government's budget which fails to find a quality way to finance the entire transport sector in the Republic of Croatia. We hear from Mr. Minister's statements that Croatian highways will be monetized and privatised and concessioned, that airports in the Republic of Croatia will be privatised, that Croatian railways will be restructured, Croatian railways will be privatised, that the ACI will be privatised, that Croatian mail will be restructured. So everything that happens in the Croatian transport system is done untransparently, away from the public's eyes, which is particularly important away from this Parliament without analysis, without studies, without contact with science and profession when it comes to the entire fate of the Croatian transport system. In this way, I dare say that by such a procedure, the Croatian government is euthanizing the transport system of the Republic of Croatia. And such a way will be particularly affected by the inhabitants of southern Croatia who will be completely cut off from the Croatian transport system. We know that the delayed construction of the Pelješko bridge and the now announced amendment of the Roads Act, which we will discuss next week before the adoption of the State budget, makes it clear that the withdrawal from the further construction of the highway will remain without any other kind of traffic connection. Those who have established the highway network under these laws will also be allowed access with Croatian railways, which will be mainly targeted by the gro-financial resources. So on behalf of the HDZ Club, I ask Mr. Vice President to turn this House over to the President of the Croatian Government, to introduce us to the Government's projects when it comes to the Croatian transport system or to the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and to introduce us to how and how the Croatian Government sees the construction of Croatia... The system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56415	Time's up. Thank you. ... Vice President of the Reiner House, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56423	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm looking for a break of 15 minutes. We are deeply concerned with the state of democracy and the threat of democracy in Croatia related to uncivilised pressures and intolerance that began to dominate our media space, a campaign that takes on the scale of general haranga, and related to the upcoming referendum. Namely, a referendum on...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56424	Okay, we're not going to measure it now. You said the reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56425	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56426	Yeah, well, explain, I'll give you a break and you'll explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56427	Yeah, but let me finish why, 'cause the mention...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56428	I get it. I figured out why. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56429	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, a break with the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56430	Same reason?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56431	On behalf of the SDP club, the same break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56432	SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56433	On behalf of the SDSS Club for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56434	Cain, independent. Minority? And HDSSB. Okay, I'm setting a break until 12.25. At 12.25, we move on. It's 12.08 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.26 HOURS]] I'm gonna read the clubs again and ask for a break to see if I haven't missed anyone. HDZ, HNS, SDP, SDSS, Independent, Minority, HDSSB. No additions to this list. Then I ask my colleague Reiner, vice president of the House to use five minutes on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56436	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, like I said, we asked for a break because of something that worries us deeply. We are deeply concerned, in fact, with an amazing campaign of media but also with authorities that use incredible terms such as primitiveism, back to the Middle Ages, clericalism, fascism, backlogs, backlogs so as to disabling supporters of "ZA" in a referendum and all those who have a different worldview than their own. It takes a real extent of intimidation and that's what worries us deeply. Unfortunately, Croatian society thus comes into even greater polarisation and division, which is certainly not good. The media, mostly in the service of the ruling coalition, is different from that of the ruling ones, and more and more of those who think differently from the ruling are beginning to fear the open and free display of their own views. This amazing media campaign that can actually be called a harangus in some way raises the question of both human rights and democracy and the right to think differently. So much aggression, so much intolerance, so much exclusion, so much hatred and verbal violence has long not been present in our public life. In particular, it bothers the insult and humiliation of individuals who have declared themselves committed to the option for a future referendum and the labelling of such a huge number of more than 700,000 Croatian citizens who have advocated this referendum in action is a conflict between two visions and two forms and two views of society – civil society, civil society, which triggered this referendum and non-civil society – the remains of another system from the past that does not allow for different thinking. What should also be said is a perverse picture that dominates the media presentation of a referendum where it is constantly sold says that on the one hand there is a weak, likable minority of people who are only looking for the right to love, to be happy, to be equal, and on the other hand some dark force that wants to take away what rights they allegedly had is deprived of them Which, of course, is not true. [[Intruder Stazic: Peace of fellows, peace please!]] The labels that are constantly mentioned in this haranza, including expressions that are also easily thrown upon by a single fascism and which unfortunately serve us to eliminate non-sanitary people without any justification or argument, because of course there is no reason why or debate is certainly not the way in which civil and civil society can and should function. What is particularly concerned is that, contrary to European plantings and recommendations made by the Venice Commission and the Council of Europe in 2007, in which the government must not use public funds, nor abuse its political position for a unilateral campaign against referendums, so that citizens can make an independent decision on the referendum issue is absolutely at risk. We have witnessed that from the president of the state, prime minister to minister not only clearly declared their position that they would be against, but urged citizens to vote against what is deep non-European behaviour Therefore, I call on everyone to vote for it, but for their conscience and for their honesty. [[/Intruder Stazic: Bring the end. Time's up.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56437	Thank you. It is up to the Club of HNS Representatives and esteemed colleague Jozo Radoš. Let your colleagues let Radosha hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56438	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS is against any referendum most of which imposes its will and restricts minority rights. Today it's a sexual minority, tomorrow it can be world-famous, the day after tomorrow it can be ethnic, then regional, age, property and any other minority. The referendum as the highest form of citizens' decision on one country's policy should be decided in a much calmer atmosphere and on general issues rather than minority rights. And that's our fundamental point of view. As far as this referendum is concerned, which is ahead of us, he has certainly entered the zone of large social divisions, but the responsibility for this is primarily borne by those who have launched this referendum and those who have supported them. The referendum is largely respecting those who understand it as a referendum on something, a referendum against them, a referendum against those. And if you expect that in such a situation in society, when such a form of the highest public statement is launched, the other side will be calm and let it go that way, then of course you're wrong. That's impossible. Therefore, the responsibility for what is happening to the greatest extent, without, of course, justifying either of them, on the one hand or on the other, is borne by those who launched this referendum knowing that it cannot go through without the difficult social conflicts. As far as Harange is concerned, she's not one-dimensional colleague, Reiner, she happens on both sides, she's not under government control. The government has largely not interfered in these issues, but it has entered political space. You're on your lapel wearing letters for, you're on the campaign. Likewise, other representatives of political parties have the right to express their position on the basis of their programmes. The government has no influence on the media the way you think. If that were the case, we would have government media and opposition media, and there is no luck in Croatia, and the fact that media employees and public workers are so determined is, of course, a question of broader and deeper social relations, and therefore you cannot accuse the government. As regards the CNS as a political party, rather than as part of the government, it is based on its principles and programmes that lead a civilised campaign against such a referendum and against the content of the issue. We are about to take on such large issues and the right of minorities is certainly a big question, each of us is not by one but by more elements and arguments of a kind of minority based on our political views and the basis of the programme we are running a civilised campaign against. We think that this is our task because we believe not only that this is contrary to the best principles of decision-making in society, a big question that not only creates divisions in society but one group of citizens is brought into a more unfavourable position, based on the highest act and the highest form of decision-making and, of course, the highest act, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We feel that everyone has the right to live freely, to exercise their rights, to the extent possible, until it endangers other people's rights. This referendum is a discrimination against one group of people and what is even more dangerous is that form of majority decision-making tomorrow can be applied to every other minority, including each of us here in the Croatian Parliament and to every citizen of the Republic. Therefore, narrations about how it is a haranza, mentioning, of course, only one party, forgetting that all those who will be against the referendum are declared abnormal by the HDZ High Representatives and that the HDZ is not manifested and does not benevolent from this attitude is also one kind of a haranga.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56439	Thank you. A respected colleague, Sasa Djujic, will speak on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56440	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues will be brief, at first I would like to point out that each of us has the right to express our opinion and attitude. As you have colleagues, so have others and it is incorrect to be angry with someone just because they express their attitude and are struggling to hear the attitude of other people in public and that they call on voters to support their idea because we think it is precisely incorrect that you speak in such a way that you can speak and others should not speak. It's totalitarianism, and it's precisely a requirement of one mind. And everyone has the right to say what they think, regardless of whether it's a member of an association, any member of any society, whether it's a legitimately elected state official, whether it's any individual in our community. And when you mention the government, the government did not join the government in this referendum, but the government members expressed their position as you say, as your representatives throughout Croatia say, and that is the right of everyone. And everyone has the right to say what they want. This is another example of how we differ from you, which makes us different, because here we will point out the same example. We respect everyone's will, respect and respect that even these 700 thousand citizens who, by their signature, have expressed their wish to hold a referendum, the SDP has supported the holding of a referendum, and we voted for it even though we disagree with the referendum, although we do not agree with that question, but we also feel that everyone has the right to seek their rights and the community that has launched this referendum even though we are against it. And I won't last any longer, I think I've made myself clear, I'll just say that the SDP club is against it. Against the restriction of human rights. The duty of the majority is to protect the minority. Each of us is a minority in one respect. No one has the right to tell others how they'll live because here's a colleague of Radosh's said we're wondering what's next? Whose rights are going to be compromised tomorrow, who's coming to order tomorrow, and that's exactly why we need to be loud. And that's why every single one of us who's a public life participant and in society has the right to say our position. So I say my position, so I urge all citizens to go to the referendum on Sunday, to be against, to be against discrimination, against the oppression of others because it is human to be against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56441	On behalf of the SDSS Club, a respected colleague, Milorad Pupovac, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56442	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS club did not publicly advertise in this matter except in the debate at the Croatian Parliament. But listening and watching things happen, I think we'll get back to you. We'll get back to you because we see what's going on next. Croatia is beginning to share on the one that is constitutional Croatia and the one that is unconstitutional Croatia, the one that respects democratic institutions and the one that is against respect for democratic institutions, the one that is for European Croatia and the one that is for non-European Croatia, the one that is for traditionalism and the one that is for modernity. We've always had elements of that, but we've never had as sharp a division as she wants to produce now, we haven't had any products. So where did it all start? It all began at the moment when the Ministry of Science decided to try to offer the educational concept of sex culture, the family in the way it seems in most European countries. And then there's this campaign against the ministry and then it's going to be running all the campaigns against the government, you've forgotten about it as not folk, as criminal, so I can quote you who said it, but it's not a place here. Two very prominent men in the hierarchy of the Catholic Church in Croatia. And speaking of which, in the protection of constitutionality, legality and democracy. If you go to www.necirlica.com and see where all the signatures against Cyrillic are collected and for a referendum on Cyrillic. You will see that out of the 850 places that can be seen on that page, 497 are gathered in front of religious facilities, 58%,47, is that any sign of fellow Reiner, is that any message from secular If you give me a sign that I don't speak, I won't speak and if you give me a sign I'm saying... [[Intruder, Stazic: Please let the speaker express his thoughts, can speak on behalf of the club as he pleases.]] Then I should speak as every free man [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] if these aren't relevant to you, they are to me. [[Intruder Stazic: Exactly, only you say what you mean to say, not what others are looking for.]] If it is irrelevant for you whether Croatia is losing its secular constitutional character, for me it is relevant, for me it is relevant. In 20 and a few years there was no initiative that wanted to compromise or limit the secularity of the Croatian Constitution. Now this initiative is under way, and you think it is normal to conduct a referendum as a means to limit Croatia's secularity. And you think it's normal that people won't react to something like that. It's not normal. And it is quite understandable that if the campaign involves those who want to change the secular character of Croatia and who use marriage as a means to change the secular character of Croatia and the story of marriage as a means, even though they clearly know that the introduction of the marriage provision as a community of men and women will not change anything when it comes to the quality of marriage or marriage. No, but they want to impose another non-secular, religious component when on Wednesday the interpretation and value of the Croatian Constitution are. We have sworn to a different value of this constitution. For this reason, for the defense of secularity, not for him to engage in a conflict between those who understand the processes that are happening and we will not vote against this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56443	It's the club of independent representatives and Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56444	Honorable Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's after what happened in Vukovar that I was talking about this morning, after a crawling coup, after this more definitive referendum issue, some here in the Parliament are doomed to talk about media manipulations and media abuses. The truth is the next. That even a part of the media, after a day of reminiscing, understood what kind of democracy it is for HDZ, and they realized that it is the HDZ that shares Croatia. I don't mind that in the upcoming referendum some may be in favour, some may be against, I don't mind, but breaking power past elections is something to say no to here in Parliament or outside of Parliament. I think what's happening in public today is what citizens see. And the citizens just started to fear such democracies after HDZ. And I'm going to say this, even to me, here's what I think this referendum definition right now is not a question because even in Family Law, a law that was passed in 2002. HDZ and the Church have accepted that very definition. And I'm not worried about that, but I'm worried about what happens next. We have a referendum on Cyrillic, Mr. Radosh said something about it. About the Cyrillic that goes to St. John's. Peter in Istria wrote in the 12th century along with a verb where HDZ is in power today. And then there's that referendum on abortion. So that the right to vote is tied to the number of children, the more children, the more they vote. But you know what the point is? The point is, until then, we need to stay alive in this country. Because in 2001, from the Split Riviera, you were threatened with a coup and in 2013, you took a step further. And that's why I'm saying that today should be on the defender of freedom. And I'd also like to know how they feel between our cardinals and our cardinals, or our cardinal, on the conclaves as they choose the Pope and from the vault of the Sistine chapel, they're relieved by the author of the last court not to say one faggot named Michelangelo. Look, gentlemen, I'll choose words, but literally that's the way to speak to someone on the right. [[/Intruder: Please choose your words. Choose words.]] It's not fair, gentlemen, what you're doing, and then I'm going to get over the politics of no, the secularization he was talking about just before Mr. Pupovac. You're playing with the tiniest emotions, you're using a crisis, you're running a policy the best you can do. You know very well that in this country no one is talking about adopting children from same-sex couples but you know everything, but this government wants to order just one thing, Mr. Representative. As in that Michelangel court, we are all born of God naked, we are all equal before God, we will die, and such a God sees us. Yes, it's not a referendum problem, it's a background problem behind this referendum, which is the gentlemen's destruction of this government. And that's why I said, today it should be on the defender of the survival of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia defends itself by democracy. And be assured that this government will respect the will of the citizens in the referendum. And there's no dilemma. But you must not be allowed to forcefully endanger the government because it is not the government that you are jeopardizing, but Croatia and the future of us in this country. And lastly, I will mention Mr. Pupovac once again, I have not talked about it so far in the Assembly, but now I say, defend all of you who listen to this, watch, follow these meetings of the Parliament, defend Croatia by going out on a referendum and attitude against. But if it overcomes the position ZA and it is possible to do so then it will make us very sure that there will be no one in the Government who will, who will not support it in the next day to be incorporated into the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56445	Thank you. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, Nedzad Hodzic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56446	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So as a minority, I'm going to say once again that it's very sad to see what you're doing to your own country and to your own people. The Day of Remembrance in Vukovar has been defiled, the grand victory of the football team has been defiled, the country's constitution and the laws adopted in this House. And I'm simply expressing a great regret. And once again, we can close our eyes as much as we want, but society is pretty sick. What has been happening in the last month, two days in this country, does not serve as an example. And I will repeat what I heard from a big or big Croatian politician if you had done this before entering the European Union you would never have seen Europe. Neither you nor we are all together. With this rhetoric, we would still be waiting at the door of Europe, and if it's not clear to someone, I'm afraid they'll have to face that reality. I don't know what's going on behind this referendum, I call on people to come out, to vote according to their conviction but to make sure they don't diminish the rights of others with their voice. What's next Cyrillic? What's next? Are we going to end the contracts for some religious communities? What's next? Today is an accidental day, on November 29th, so the day of the republic of the former country that we thought was a totalitarian system and we came out of. I'm afraid that totalitarian system had a little more freedom than we want in Croatia today. I'm afraid that's how it is, so we've all come out of that country with a desire to join new and better countries, to join the European Union, and what is done today to Croatian society and the Croatian state is not good, and that is the responsibility above all for you who are members of the majority people, we can support you as minorities as equal citizens in everything that is positive for all and when you build or when we build a society of equal citizens and society of all freedoms, then we and of course the countries of economic well-being and legal certainty for all its citizens, then we will be happy and together with you and today I am very unhappy, I believe with a great majority of Croats by nationality.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56447	And finally, the HDSSB club and Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56448	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Today as the last time we discussed a referendum launched by the Civil Initiative "In the Name of the Family", I say the Citizens' Initiative "In the Name of the Family" and aware and witnesses of the media to say haranga, cross-breeding or cross-breeding spears in the media to unprecedented proportions, to personal attacks on people, to muddy and to throw mud or spit on people personally and personally and familyly and certainly. I won't talk about these media, best they're talking about themselves with their writings. Every smart Croatian citizen will read clearly from these inscriptions or these shows or whatever the media brings in, what it is, why and how they write. I won't comment at all, but I follow and read. There has been a debate here today about Croatia disowning the secularity of the state. Did the Constitutional Court also assess that the referendum gave up the secularity of the state when it brought or cut that doubt as to whether the Croatian Parliament might change the decision of the people if the referendum won the ZA. So the Croatian Parliament will... discuss and change the decision of the people. The Constitutional Court also made clear that the referendum for implementation cannot be changed by a decision of the Parliament. The people are above, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia... and above the Parliament, so I don't say anything else so I don't go back to the Croatian Olympic Committee for the lawsuit, and there was such a saying a long time ago. So the secularity of the state tried to defend the attitude against the referendum, as if ZA or OBVI would change the form of a state. He won't. It won't change anything. So this is where the Family Law is mentioned, in which everything is defined almost the same as this question of the referendum. So if the Family Law is illegal, is it beyond norm, what we change, we change nothing. Family law says that, only this time goes into the Constitution, so the Constitution confirms the Family Law and nothing else. We're aware of all that. And it was said here in a debate that if voted FOR that we would not solve the problems of the Croatian state. It is true that these topics are clouded, starting with Cyrillic, Family Law, Constitution, the real problems of Croatian citizens are clouded, which will come in even more difficult form, the form of a difficult life in 2015. We're just waiting there for the Calvary, the economics, the economics, and we're lurking around the newspapers and the inscriptions, we hate each other over and over. Look at the expressions and expressions of hate, amazing. Worse than the election. We split up on every side, not just a party. Why, then, let the people decide by their own will, by their own understanding, by their own understanding. You can't change anybody, and you're just gonna get enemies, opponents, we hate each other, and here's where we put the tables, some of them like this, some of them like that. What's he talking about? It's said that if there's a vote, nothing will change. Well, it's like something's going to change in the economic and economic sense and be less poor if it's voted against. He won't. So the issue is for the economic and economic situation, the demographics of the Republic of Croatia are completely irrelevant. It's completely irrelevant. That's what I heard last time, he says if I vote FOR it won't change anything, so if it votes against it, will it change? Let's leave it alone, calm the tensions. I'm appealing to both the media and those who are having such a hard time with the media to say cheerleading, I'm not going to tell the harangu to leave the citizens alone, that they're not harassing them with the things we see in the media right now. Let them decide for themselves on Sunday. HDSSB pleaded, he's in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u56449	Okay, thank you. Now, an hour after we started voting, we'll finally start. Now we're moving on to the scheduled agenda. - Final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation No 850/2004, on persistent organic pollutants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No 536; Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yes, Deputy Minister of Environment and Nature, Hrvoje Dokoza, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60803	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs and MPs. Regulation (EC) No 850/2004 of the European Community. The European Parliament and the Council of 29 April 2004 on persistent organic pollutants amending and supplementing Directive 79/117 of the European Community primarily refers to the protection of the environment and human health as a result of the release of persistent organic pollutants into the environment. These substances are transported across international borders, away from their sources and remain permanently in the environment. bioaccumulated through the food net and pose a risk to human health and the environment. In order to reduce the negative impact of these substances on the environment and human health at international level, conventions and protocols giving the framework for implementing measures to reduce these negative impacts have been adopted. These are the Stockholm Convention on Standing Organic Contaminants and the Protocol on the existence of Organic Contaminants with the 1979 Convention on Transboundary Air Contaminants. For the area of reducing the negative impact of pollution on environmental, water, air, soil components. Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Transport and Disposal of Dangerous Waste, Rotterdam Convention on the Pre-Sentation Procedure for Certain Dangerous Chemicals and pesticides in International Trade. The Republic of Croatia is a party to all those international contracts. In the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, the problem of persistent organic pollutants is divided between several central authorities of the state administration. The Ministry of Environmental Protection for the issue of air pollution to air and soil and waste management. The Ministry of Health, Chemical Management, the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Protection, Agricultural Land, Veterans and the Ministry of Economy, which regulates the handling of devices containing polychlorinated biphenyls and polychlorinated terphenyls. Labelling and protection at work when handling such devices. The cooperation of the authorities in charge of monitoring the implementation of the Stockholm Convention was established in 2008 by a decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which then established a working group with other representatives of the central government. The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the working group developed a report on the implementation of the 2009 Stockholm Convention, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in November 2011. The second report for the period 2011 December 2012 to be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in December 2013 means next month. In order to ensure consistent and effective compliance with the Community's obligations under the Protocol on Standing Organic Contaminants and the Stockholm Convention, it was necessary to establish a common legal framework within which measures will be taken specifically to eliminate the production, placing on the market and use of intentionally produced permanent organic pollutants. In 2004, Regulation (EC) No 850/2004 of the European Community was adopted. on persistent organic pollutants. The Regulation is transposed into the law implementing Regulation of the European Community No 850/2004. on permanent organic contaminants established by the competent authorities, tasks of the competent authorities, reporting to the Commission, enforcement of controls and infringement provisions for the implementation of the European Community Regulation in the Republic of Croatia. Competent authorities, central authorities responsible for protecting the environment, health and agriculture, the economy, the water economy, forestry and veterinary. In the implementation of the Regulation of the European Community 850/244 of this Act, they cooperate with the Agency for Environmental Protection, the Croatian Institute for Toxicology and Anti-doping, Croatian Waters, Croatian Forests, the Croatian Forest Institute and the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village and Plant Protection. Infringement provisions shall be laid down in accordance with Article 33 of the Criminal Code and the laws governing the handling of those substances. By adopting the law implementing Regulation of the European Community 850/2004 on permanent organic pollutants, the Republic of Croatia fulfils its obligation to the Member State of the European Union by enabling the direct application of the EU Regulation in question. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60804	Thank you, Deputy Dokoza. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, MP Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60805	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Perhaps in this assembly I, as a citizen of Slavonski Brod and a parliamentary representative or a national representative, have the most right to speak on this subject. Therefore, it is the Law implementing the regulation, not to mention the figures now, because it is exhausting, in 2004, on persistent organic polluting substances with the final proposal for the law. And then in this material where more than 50% of these papers are written there are all possible conventions, protocols, international agreements, Stockholm Convention, our air protection laws, the emission values of polluting substances to air, regulations, the regulation on levels of polluting substances, air quality monitoring, then the Environmental Protection Act, the waste management rule, everything that actually applies to air, soil and water pollution. This bill also stipulates who is following it, what are the sanctions and who is overseeing or inspecting all of this. Despite all the fine wishes that apply to the need to enable the direct application of the European Union regulations in the Republic of Croatia in the field of environmental protection and human health pursuant to Article 206. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament therefore propose the adoption of the Law on the Implementation of Regulation No 850, right from 2004. Despite this, all these legal provisions of citizens in Slavonski Brod continue to suffer with air quality and even water, given the existence of a refinery in Bosnia and Herzegovina and its half, so the disposal of polluting substances from that refinery which is to the soul in another country but now we are a member of the European Union and the European Union and as a member of Croatia has the right to protect its citizens in various ways in connection with work and to say poisoning, air poisoning from the refinery in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As long as there was only a struggle to establish the measurement station, first number one and now number two, which is a mobile measurement station. How many times has Minister Zmajlović come and promised the Brodjans, therefore, what common sense can alone conclude on the basis of all these numbered regulations and other how many Brodjans and children should end up in children's hospitals and departments in Zagreb, Slavonski Brod and elsewhere to come up with simple solutions which can therefore be made by means of diplomacy or through cross-border cooperation, cross-border cooperation between the Republic, Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is not a republic but a Federation and a republic together, so the Republic of Croatia on the modernisation of the refinery in the Bosnian Ship, which is in the hands of foreign owners, I will not now advertise here any foreign owner. Therefore, Bosnia and Herzegovina should enter into pre-accession negotiations with the European Union, the condition for this is a simple solution to the refinery in the Bosnia and Herzegovina. Until you solve the refinery in the Bosnian Ship as air poisoners in the Republic of Croatia cannot be accessed by negotiations. Just a simple act, either by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or by your Ministry to the Committee of the European Parliament for the Environment, which is very sensitive to such things to submit a letter. I myself participated in the work of that committee and in the work of the Commission for the Opening of Negotiations with Bosnia and Herzegovina and presented the problem. They said they had good will, but the Republic of Croatia should, therefore, intervene by letter or by any other act. There's no memo or other act. Why? Because JANAF makes 80 million kunas a year on the transportation of oil to a refinery in the Bosnian ship. And is 80 million kuna worth the health of 80,000 people? Is the price of the health of the people in Slavonski Brod for the sake of JANAF? If JANAF did what he should do by counting on the health of the people and children in Slavonski Brod, then I would turn the valve off and say gentlemen can't do it anymore. But it's not like that. Now that they're polluting substances, organic pollutants? There's almost no mention of it in this material. You mentioned phenols, but there's no material in it. I wonder why there are no organic pollutants in this written material that come out and pollute any air, water or soil. So that all MPs and those who are not to say educated in that sense, who are not familiar with chemical substances so as to say whether it's benzene, whether it's floating particles, whether it's nitrogen compounds or any other compounds so we can see what these compounds are and what we really need to fight against. This is how we have one law that you're chasing at the windmills. I know that I too will be to adopt this, to be immediately clear that the HDSSB will be for this legislative proposal but we are looking for simple words of clarification and listing of substances which are therefore harmful or which are organic polluting substances. So what an ordinary man in a court dispute with Russia is called Fadeyev, made by suing the Russian state, so Russia's mother country to reduce the quality of life because his house, a refinery made by his house without his leave or knowledge. He felt the same way as a citizen of Slavonski Brod. He did not sue the refinery and the Russian state for benzene poisoning, floating particles, sulphuric, sulfuric acid which, in conjunction with H2S plus H2O, is created by H2SO4 which, as acidic rains fall on the ground, pollute both water and soil, but sued the Russian State for reducing air quality because he cannot walk with his grandson in his backyard, because his wife can't hang his laundry because the laundry takes the scent of all the compounds polluting in the air. Because he doesn't have a life like other citizens who don't live near the refinery. And he won a dispute in front of the European Court of Human Rights. An ordinary one in Russia has won a dispute against the state of Russia and is entitled to compensation. The citizens of Slavonski Brod have no chance or I don't know why they don't complain to the European Court of Human Rights. We also have a mayor, and we also have the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is drilling into the chest to solve the problem, but the problem is not solved. That's why there's two remarks. I'm asking you as a ministry to have solutions and diplomatic ways to solve this thing, that's one time, and another time to tell us what organic pollutants are. All these other items, which is an inspection, to the extent that they are punished, therefore repressive measures legally, who oversees it, which are the authorities in the country from the Ministry to the veterinary inspection, as it all says here, so all possible inspections that exist in the Republic of Croatia, agricultural, veterinary, I don't know what all of them are, the Fund for Ecology and Energy Efficiency, and I don't list here, that I don't spend your and our precious time here. So all of this is acceptable, but for Slavonic Shipbuilding there is no solution. I felt the need to talk about this precisely because very little worry is being directed by those who have the power and the ability to act and intervene, starting with considering oil transport through so-called. The Adriatic pipeline to intervention in terms of diplomacy, be quiet, be public, according to the European Union to protect its citizens. We are no longer allowed to observe this problem in this way or in the old way because we are now part and a member of the European Union and as such we have a certain position, I say no more dominant but we have the right to seek for all citizens of the European Union the same conditions of life, the quality of life, the quality of breathing as anyone in the Alps, on Schwarzwald, on the Mount in us, on Velebit, so it must be in Slavonski Brod. We'll uphold the law, but just let him through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60806	Thank you. We have two replicas. First honorary colleague Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60807	A respected colleague, well, the fact is that the very document of this law does not give a list of exactly what these are and the existence of an polluting organic substance, but you could have informed yourself and sought out the Stockholm Convention and then you would have seen what extremely dangerous substances are on that list. One of them you mentioned, it's benzene. Among other things, the list includes DDT, which has been banned almost worldwide for a number of years. These are polychlorinated biphenyls, polychlorinated terphenyls, then there are alldrin, chlordan, endrin, heptachlor, hexaclor, benzene, toxafen, mirex, then highly toxic dioxins and furans that are very often mentioned as carcinogenic compounds. So I think it's also the obligation of parliamentarians to prepare to discuss some issues to try to find out more, that it doesn't necessarily have to write in the very text of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60808	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60809	My colleague Holly, I have not been or will be the Minister of Ecology and Energy Efficiency to study materials from Stockholm and other conventions that have come to your table and that you were obliged to know, but as a representative and as a citizen of Croatia... that I am a doctor so I know well what you are talking about, but our public here must know. It's not because of me, the Stockholm Convention, but because of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that's what we should talk about here. And the fact that we're hiding what's in the Stockholm Convention, it's not right, so it's just you from the ministry and maybe a couple of colleagues here know about it. We need to tell the citizens exactly how you said it was benzenes and its compounds, that that's all you've listed. Next, I wrote a little bit, followed you. Yeah, the DDT that caused fetal damage in some countries when used. So it's terpenils, hexachlor benzenes, dioxins. But that should be said here and should be said where we have the emissions of all these polluting organic substances in the Republic of Croatia. So we can't just dry-cut the law. Here we have adopted what Europe prescribes and done. Let's just say, here's my colleague Bubalo asking what's going on here in this law, what's going on? So here's what I've been trying to do with the folk dictionary to explain the part. But I am truly a citizen of Slavonski Brod in the name of my voters and voters, there are those who did not choose me to say what I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60810	The Republic was also reported by counterpart Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60811	A colleague, Vice President of the Parliament. Well, colleague Mirela Holly actually said this part that, in the Stockholm Convention in Appendix C, I think it was mentioned what you're talking about. Whether it should have been entered into the legal proposal, I'm not sure it was necessary, but it wouldn't have hurt if it had come in. But we think in the contract itself there is. And as for this pollution you're talking about, it's really a serious problem, and it's been dragging on for many years. What the people of the refinery defend are behind in modernization. They claim modernization will take place. However, this has been taking too long. Of course, there is a problem then between the two states and sure that this problem should be solved as soon as possible but it is not easy to solve. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60812	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60813	I'd sing you a colleague of the Paroles, the parolee. So words, words, words in Italian. So, it's just a matter of saying I'd like to confirm that you're reluctant and infirm and your government as well as the HDZ on air pollution in Slavonski Brod. And this should indicate that you, so go out for a pay phone and explain to the citizens what dioxins are, what benzenes are, terpenils, hex chlor benzenes, sulfuric guides, sulfuric acid. Some things people know, but some people don't. So report for a debate, not a complaint. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60814	We continue the debate by clubs, and on behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected colleague, Branko Bačić, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60815	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy Associates, Your Honor, The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Law implementing Regulation No 850 of 2004 on persistent organic polluting substances with the Final Proposal for the Law. The proposed law allows for the direct application of the EU Regulation in the Republic of Croatia, which aims at applying measures and eliminating or limiting production, placing on the market and use of organic pollutants, substances carried away from sources and permanently staying in the environment, bioaccumulated through the food network and poses a risk to human health and the environment. As has already been said before and by the Deputy Ministers, these substances have been regulated by the Stockholm Convention on Standing Organic Contaminants and the Protocol on Standing Organic Contaminants with the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contaminants. It is also said that Croatia became a party to the Stockholm Convention of 2007, and the main objective of this Convention was to apply measures and best available techniques to reduce or eliminate the release of permanent organic pollutants listed in Annexes A, B and C of the Convention, which was just before counterpart Holly spoke of, production and use including unintended production, as well as the reduction or disposal of waste. Also important for this law to say that Croatia became party to the protocol in 2007 and thus at this global level, I would say that Croatia would take over the obligations arising from the regulation that we now include in the Croatian legal system. But also what I do not know is whether Croatia was already said in 2008, and just after becoming a party to that Convention and Protocol, it adopted a National Plan for the Implementation of the Convention on Permanent Contaminants. In 1996, a budget of emissions and reporting on the emissions of persistent organic pollutants in the Republic of Croatia was launched in line with the international methodology. For illustration alone, I'll give you some data. In fact, among the substances we are discussing today are dioxins and forans whose emissions are produced in the combustion of heating wood in the household sector as well as other processes that contribute to this emissions are processes of production of steel in electroluent furnaces, fuel burning in energy plants as well as waste burning. In 2011, dioxin and foran emissions decreased by 24% compared to 1910 mainly due to reduced consumption and heating wood in the general consumption sector, which accounts for approximately 95% of total emissions. The Protocol on Standing Organic Contaminants obliges the Republic of Croatia not to exceed emissions of dioxins and foran in base 1990. The Republic of Croatia as we can see I fully comply with this request. Furthermore, one of the groups of persistent organic pollutants is polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and the most significant source of their emissions in 1910 was the process of fuel burning in the general consumption, coke production and primary aluminium production. The total emissions of these substances in 2011 from baseline in 1910 decreased by 35%. As a result of the reduction of heating wood consumption in the household sector and due to the halting of the process of production of coke and primary aluminium production. Furthermore, when we talk about these substances, we should also mention pesticides that, whose emissions occur in the use of plant protection products in agriculture. Otherwise, when we talk about this data then we should certainly refer to Mr Grubisic, who rightly defies that despite the existence of all international conventions, despite the fact that we have brought to the Republic of Croatia the appropriate legislation that goes towards preventing harmful greenhouse gas emissions, the emissions of harmful substances into the air, the fact that we are late in the implementation that we are not effective and that citizens in areas such as Slavonski Brod, such as Sisak, such as the part of Rijeka, are certainly entitled to disagree with this fact. And in this sense, I absolutely support everything Mr. Grubisic said because despite our efforts to bring the entire Croatian legislation into line with the legal acquis of the EU, we are implementing all those international legal instruments of the Convention and the protocols in that part, we are really not effective, and when it comes to Slavonski Brod, it is particularly difficult that the pollutant in the area of the neighbouring country, which is not at the same time a member of the EU, which is then still not a signator of all those conventions that would force it to speed up the process of raising oil processing in the refinery of the Ship to a higher level that would then prevent really air pollution in Slavonski Brod, which is why, as Mr Grubisic said with the right of the residents of Slavonski Brod. Otherwise, when it comes to greenhouse gas emissions and their impact on climate change in the Republic of Croatia, then it should be said that the Republic of Croatia as a party to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and as a party to the Kyoto Protocol in this first Kyoto period, which we can estimate as having practically ended in 2012 in the part of the greenhouse gas emissions, has fully fulfilled its obligations because it has reduced greenhouse gas emissions in the region of the Republic of Croatia by 5% compared to the base 1990s. We are now facing a more challenging period by 2020, which the EU has defined as a strategy for sustainable and inclusive growth, smart and inclusive growth, which means reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, and which we in Croatia have clearly not only through joining full EU membership but also through last year's Doha meeting and the Doha Convention, and we have committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20%, the trading and public auctioning system with greenhouse gases, etc., etc. So, as the Republic of Croatia looks at the whole, it meets the very strict conditions and criteria that oblige us to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and thus contribute to the mitigation of climate change, but on the other hand, there are extreme cases and extreme spaces in Croatia, such as among other things, Slavonski Brod, which does not give us the right to succeed if I can say so, although these successes are largely determined by the fact that due to the crisis, recession, due to war events in the Republic of Croatia, the production that has resulted in the release of greenhouse gases in the Republic has occurred precisely because of these crisis recession times more than because of our thought-out policy to reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases by investing in technology processes. But the fact that reduced greenhouse gas emissions in the Republic of Croatia is what can satisfy us in principle. But I say it is in no way satisfactory and it is not comforting for the people of Slavonski Brod or Sisak-Moslavina County, i.e. Sisak where two refineries have not yet reached the necessary level of technological process which could then guarantee the residents of both Sisak and Slavonski Brod that they can thus say that this legislation is in the Republic of Croatia, such by the behaviour of the public sector and the economies that are implementing international conventions to protect air that it has obtained quality results. However, as this Regulation touches to a lesser extent the issues of pollution of those substances which are particularly related to the refinery but certainly to them, it is clear that because of the fact that such a regulation will further regulate the legal system of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to air pollution. The HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60816	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. But before that, one notice. The chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of colleagues, Pedja Grbin, informs that the committee session will be held today at the "Josip Jelacic" Hall after the vote. So, after the vote. We're moving on to replicas. The first one was answered by Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60817	Thank you very much. For Bosnia and Herzegovina, you counted all her participations in European institutions. However, I was personally present at the Commission's meeting to open pre-accession negotiations between the European Parliament and BiH, so pre-accession negotiations. BiH has many obstacles and obstacles, given its political constitution, etc., one Federation and one Republic and a series of constitutional problems, but when we already have, and no one is looking back on it, almost their not only so I would say I would not say bad but also some conditions that set for the Peljeski bridge on the sovereign Croatian territory then we have a special right to set the conditions for the operation of the refinery in the Bosnian Ship. And secondly, in Slavonski Brod you all know who you travel to the east of Croatia when you pass through Slavonski Brod, I don't know which one of you traveled, but everyone alive who traveled by car feels a change in the quality of the air not to say smell literally when passing through Slavonski Brod. And in Slavonski Brod, there are neither cokers nor aluminium factories, nor boilers which air pollutants are also not all on some lodge but there are 60.70% of them on gas, so gas tanks are somehow more environmentally acceptable fuel, right? According to this, what you were talking about and about the substances that come out and Koksara Bakar was really an air pollutant knows Mr. Klaric, in aluminium Sibenik etc., it was all like that but there is no such thing in the Ship and then it is clear that the refinery is actually the main air pollutant in Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60818	The replica matches Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60819	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Grubisic, I fully agree with you. I must say that here last night we had a round table on climate change where my colleague Plenkovic, who was also an observer in the European Parliament, also gave me a response from the European Commissioner for Environmental Protection, Mr Potočnik, from Slovenia. In response to his question of what the European Commission is planning and how it is thinking to influence the authorities of the neighbouring country in order to speed up the process of reconstruction of the oil refinery in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in response to the Commissioners, it says that the European Commission, as European Commission members, is considering bilateral and multilateral instruments and how to force the neighbouring country to behave in accordance with more acceptable behaviours that should be done in the reconstruction of the refinery itself. One of these instruments certainly seems to me to be the Stabilisation and Association Agreement that I think expects the neighbouring country to enter into the full membership system in the European Union, as well as in the work relating to the Slavonski Brod Oil Refinery. By the way, when we talk about these pressures that the Republic of Croatia cannot make towards the BiH and on the other hand, we say how the BIH puts pressure on the Republic of Croatia in a work relating to the construction of the Pelješac mainland, I must say that these statements of the Croatian Government are also completely inappropriate, why? Because the BIH 7 December 2006 signed with the Republic of Croatia at the level of expert groups an agreement on the elements of the construction of the Pelješka bridge, which defined the basic dimensions of the bridge itself, so that this Croatian Government remark absolutely does not stand and cannot prevent the construction of the Peljega Bridge in that part of the BIH.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60820	The second line will be presented by dear colleague Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60821	Dear counterpart Bačić, you are right when you say that Croatia is unfortunately one of the few countries that has fulfilled the obligation of the first Kyoto period to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 5% compared to the reference year. However, as you yourself said, the reason is not the realisation of renewable energy projects, investment in energy efficiency, reduction of transport emissions, but the reason for this is the systematic decline of the Croatian economy, which is why your party and your governments have a very large responsibility, given that most of that time they managed this country. Unfortunately today when we talk about greenhouse gas emissions in the Republic of Croatia we can say that the largest emitter of greenhouse gases in Croatia is transport. And it will be very difficult for Croatia to meet the commitments that we have made and related to 20.20.20, unfortunately because of the not very wise policy of this government regarding this and what we have had the opportunity to see from the last national action plan for renewable energy sources that the Government of Croatia has recently adopted, and which signifies that Croatia will indeed not meet these European objectives by 2020, which is a great pity because ultimately, from the implementation of these projects, it can also lead to the growth of the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60822	The replica will be answered by counterpart Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60823	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Holly, I agree with you in the first part in which you say that Croatia has fulfilled its obligations under the Kyoto Protocol in a work related to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 5% and that this decline in greenhouse gas emissions is not the result of investment in technology, in better production standards, more production standards than primarily that this is the result of a fall in economic activity. But I don't agree with you in the act where you're talking about why it's the government of the party I'm coming from. Or perhaps better said, that guilt I also see at the government party that you were until yesterday. Because if we are to observe the period since the founding of the Republic of Croatia since 1990, then we can hope that you will agree with me that only after 1998, after a peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Podunov, we can talk about a normal development of the Republic of Croatia after the war circumstances in which I hope that you will agree with me is not in the same way that you cannot approach the development of the economy, maintaining industrial complexes as you can then, and since then respected Miss Holly, HDZ has had two mandates and your former party also has two mandates, so that responsibility may be shared. I do not now intend to accuse either government but I am saying that Croatia today, the Croatian Government today should do all that is to encourage the development of the economy in Croatia and also in the work concerning production systems that were mainly the largest air pollutants in the Republic of Croatia at the time of 1910.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60824	We're moving on to an individual debate signed up for by a esteemed colleague named Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60825	Thank you, Vice President. Well, unfortunately, when we're dealing with environmental issues, I think we can all agree on one prominent or famous quote from Albert Einstein that said, "Just two things that are an infinite universe and human nonsense, I'm not sure about the universe.". That's the end of the quote. What am I saying that for? It has now been 61 years since the publication of the book "Silencespring" by Rachel Carson, or "Silence Spring", which represents one turning point in the area of modern environmental protection movement. That book, after a certain time, unfortunately after Rachel Carson died, led to the ban in the United States... and led to the establishment of an American Environment Protection Agency and, ultimately, to the beginning of the infrastructure policy, environmental protection almost worldwide. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which is why I'm saying we haven't learned anything from the past and from the mistakes of the past. I assume that the large number of parliamentary representatives and MPs sitting in this House today mean nothing to the term hydraulic fracture. Or more often the term fracking is used. Why do I mention this technology? Otherwise, it is a technology of horizontal shale drilling that seeks gas and is one of the fastest growing technologies in the world, highly spread in Canada, in the United States, more and more in Europe, in the UK, in the new Member States of Europe, and this technology is causing extremely big recommendations and I am afraid that the fracking is also at the door of the Republic of Croatia. It is an extremely environmentally invasive and dangerous technology that comes down to the fact that the interior of the country is being injected with extremely harmful chemicals such as beiges, arsenics, ethylene glycol, lead, formaldehyde, toluene, uranium 238, radio 226 in order to release gas, large reserves of gas from the interior of the country. Unfortunately, with such technology, water sources are highly contaminated, so here we are yesterday all those who were watching one of the national TVs in the late nights had the opportunity to watch a forensic series of CSIs that dealt with this particular problem and who warned that in the United States there were actually more than 600 thousand occurrences of extremely harmful water contaminations and other environmental factors and, of course, that it is because of the extremely powerful, influential multinational companies, nothing is happening even though people are dying massively of cancer. Unfortunately, the harmful consequences not only of benzenes most often mentioned during this debate, and unfortunately when they break, it is precisely benzene that causes these cancers most often because it is an extremely carcinogenic substance. In Croatia too, unfortunately, we have bad examples of this topic, which we are dealing with today, or with persistent organic polluting substances. And not only in agriculture, but most of these substances apply to certain substances that are used as insecticides, as herbicides, as pesticides, but also in other sectors, i.e. cement plants and everywhere where waste is being burned. Unfortunately, I don't think these penalties provided for in this bill will be sufficient to make a certain quality change. And I think that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Ministry of Agriculture, should consider that those farmers who, unfortunately, use some of these substances in Croatia today punish them in a way to deny them subsidies or incentives if they use such unacceptable ecological practices in their production. And in this sense I appeal to the Ministry of Environmental Protection to try to do something in consultations with the Ministry of Agriculture in that part because often when we have agricultural protests as a topic for the spring or before the summer, very little is said that unfortunately agriculture in Croatia is because we have mostly conventional agriculture and farm livestock farming one of the biggest environmental pollution factors. And for this reason, I think that the payment of incentives should also be linked to respect for both the Nitrate Directives and all other environmental regulations, international conventions and, unfortunately, a very large number of large agricultural entities do not apply such regulations in peaches. And so here it is, I will once again point out that the fact that it does not say in the words of the law, that on the list of meanings of these substances DDT, I think that most people in Croatia have heard of DDT, it has been banned for years, but can be used as some by-product in production, PCBs, PCT, aldrin, chlordan, endrin, heptachlor, hexaclor, benzene, taxafen, mirex, polychlorinated dibenzo... dioxide, then furans and other extremely harmful substances that unfortunately appear in Croatia today and talk about them very, very little. And in the end, I'd just like to make one small objection, and I'm sorry that we didn't have a chance to discuss this law on the Committee on Environmental Protection, and I think it's a shame, and that it's not enough to discuss these regulations only on the Committee of Legislatives. We should bear in mind that it is in fact an implementation, i.e. the integration into the Croatian legislation of a regulation that we cannot influence any amendments in fact, but which is probably why the public debate or the internet debate on this proposal was relatively short, less than 10 years if I am not mistaken, because at the end of the day nothing could have changed in this part other than possibly might increase the penalties for those who violate the provisions of this Regulation, but I think it would still be good to discuss such laws on the parent board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60826	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first one called Damir Rilje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60827	Well, here's my dear colleague Holly, I've been listening to you, and I agree with you. I just wanted to add, you were actually talking about how hard people can understand in practice, I absolutely agree with you. Many of these compounds, so there's a polychloric... so joining hydrogen atoms can be replaced by up to 10 chlorine atoms doesn't mean anything to me. But when I go into the springs and I read what we're talking about, and that's the Stockholm Convention, then when I know that actually creating a problem in environmental protection comes from burning trash, from decomposing corpses in the open of the most common cattle, then when there's a gas leak actually coming from refineries like we just had to hear, then it doesn't really seem to me enough to tell me that only subsidies are being limited. I think it would also be good to restrict the right to manage in this active economic branch when the persistent economic branch does not comply with environmental protection rules and I think that this trail should actually ensure that such a right is challenged or ultimately taken away in some way by law in accordance with the law if the interest of health and citizens in the environment is violated, but here is the interest of the economy in principle because it does not only harm citizens but also the economy as a whole such as to function as part of environmental protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60828	The replica matches the esteemed Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60829	Dear colleague, you are absolutely right and the fact is that you can do something right through better inspection supervision and with stricter law enforcement in this part. However, there should be another fact in mind. Some of these compounds are also present in terms of certain products with which agricultural areas are still being treated today. Unfortunately, I don't know what the reason is, some of our farmers use larger quantities of these funds than is necessary, so I got information from people who are dealing with water quality tests that unfortunately there are data that precisely because of the negative influences from agriculture through the use of agrochemicals are endangered strategic sources of groundwater, which is terrible because the most important strategic resource of the state is exactly the water resource. And it's not just in some to say agriculturally invasive or where there's a lot of agricultural ones, but unfortunately even around Zagreb. In Zagreb we can talk about that the negative influences come unfortunately from the Jakuševac dump because there are certain doubts that there have been cracks of clay layers and that... water from the dumps penetrate the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60830	The replica was also reported by Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60831	Dear fellow MPs. Here I have answered the line, offered by your sentence that we have countless examples in Croatia. I will mention just enough to know, one drastic example, and you are familiar with examples of a whole series of black dots, from a back-up industry from the time of Yugoslavia, to mention the example of a coke shop in Bakru where the state has invested a lot of resources to resuscitate the ground, but for two years practically nothing is done. It is not a project to resuscitate the submarines in which these very compounds you and Mr Grubisic spoke, in enormous quantities. In order to be larger, the city as such Croatia's water conditioned treatment, i.e. construction, sewer design, higher water protection, while at the same time we have huge quantities and benzenes and all other compounds in the sea. The same situation is also a port for scattered cargo. What Mr. Bačić spoke of, but you and Mr. Grubisic, too, at the beginning of the war, of how many pollutions were in the entire area of our country, what is now, unfortunately, the rest of it has changed compared to what was then. However, I think that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Fund and all of us together, not only through the pressure of citizens in these matters, but also more actively by encouraging the EU funds, and in accordance with this regulation which we from our club will in any case support this law. I think we should land on the ground and make sure all these critical places and like this problem in Slavonski Brod, like our problem down in Makarska Bay, but also down in Obrovec and beyond. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60832	The third line is the respected Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60833	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Holly, I thank you for expressing your dissatisfaction with the fact that this wheel was not manifested by the parent body. I thought about it on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, but here's how you encouraged me to do it, so I'm going to say my position. Namely, I wanted to protest the way the Croatian Parliament works when we Croatian representatives, including club presidents, do not know when a point will be discussed. It often happens that in order to please the Croatian Government and ministers and deputies who, in the name of the Government, can defend certain laws, we skip 15 points, 20 points without any special announcement, and then we go back to a point we skipped and we find out about that debate at the last minute. As you know, as president of the parent body, I called the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection on this point and the debate on this point was planned on Tuesday at 13:30, to find out last night that we are actually going to discuss this point today. I don't think that's a good thing, that Parliamentarians should know at least two days in advance that they're going to discuss some point. And when the government members have that advantage, that the Croatian Parliament is in line with their needs, although I do not understand what is more important to me than the work of a single minister, or his deputy from defending his own laws here in the Croatian Parliament, and then do not respond to the President of the Parliament and come to this House from this debate. I don't understand which job is more important. Therefore, it would be good for the Croatian government to finally understand that it is responsible for the Croatian Parliament and that discussions in this Assembly cannot be conducted under certain laws without the individual law being shown by the competent parent body and that I agree with you. And I think, Mr. Vice President, that this item of the agenda should have been discussed only after the discussion of the parent body, not only this point, but every law discussed in the Croatian Parliament cannot be discussed before being discussed by the competent parent body.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60834	Thank you. The replica matches Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60835	Dear colleague, I absolutely agree with you, and I think there should be more information for the MPs and MPs on the agenda and what's going to be a few days on the agenda. I can understand some objective circumstances that exist in the government itself, and in the end you were a minister and I was a minister so we are aware of certain problems. But, yes, the fact is that it's a little hard for parliamentary deputies to prepare quality for some of the points they plan to discuss if they're somewhere near the end of the agenda, and then suddenly, overnight, they appear at the very beginning of the agenda. Especially if those points are not discussed on the parent committees. The fact is that according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament there is no obligation, i.e. the law can also enter the procedure of the plenary debate without being discussed on the parent board, but I do not think that it is a good practice, that in this way, in a number of ways the debate on committees is important, and in a very large number of parliamentary democracies, and this parliamentary democracy which have a long practice of parliamentaryism, discussions on committees are far more important than discussions at the plenary session. I do not expect such practice to live in Croatia, but I think it would be good to work on raising quality, even ultimately important on the boards of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60836	The closing word belongs to Deputy Minister of Environment and Nature Hrvoje Dokoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60837	Thank you very much. Dear MPs and MPs, I must first of all say that we respect what Mr Grubisic said and we will certainly, here is the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature will in law publish a list of all persistent organic pollutants although they are an integral part of Stockholm's single plastic list to make it easier to track and look at. Also all the emission data is on the AZO pages so here we are absolutely in order to publish it too. As for the fracking of respected MP Holly, the position of the Republic of Croatia, he still agrees. In the EU, he was against fracking and was clearly expressed as the position of the Republic of Croatia. And the attitude of most European countries was against, so at this point in time as the debate goes, it is obvious that the European Commission will stand against it. The initiative is also what you said about nitrate comes from the European Commission, so I believe on their part in the use of European funds that it will be applied the same way. Dear Representative Klaric, I absolutely agree with what you said. Projects related to the withdrawal of European funds have already been launched, i.e. the preparation of documentation starting at this time through IPA pre-accession funds. It's yet to begin significantly earlier, and at this point, the documentation ends, so that later the funds will be withdrawn precisely for the black spot from the structural funds. Also, other black spots will be launched in a similar model to try to withdraw European funds for the recovery of the same. That's what this is about. Here, I thank you very much for your constructive discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60838	I thank the Deputy Minister. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when we get the terms, and they'll make it at noon today. Final draft law implementing Regulation No 850/2004 on persistent organic pollutants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 536. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? What's the score? The law was passed unanimously with 95 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60841	I would like to thank Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives for this proposal of the Law for the harmonisation of this law with the European Commission's remarks of 18 September 2013. It is two observations. One refers to the provisions of the law that the right to support the citizens of another EU Member State is conditional upon the existence of electoral law in the country of origin. This bill therefore provides for the right to support the citizens of another Member State who are old enough to have the right to vote in elections for the European Parliament and we also prescribe a way to verify that right. The second concerns the provision of a law laying down that the right to support the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have until the end of the period for the collection of support statements turned 18. The objection we received states that the signator must have the right to vote in elections for the European Parliament on the day of the signing of the support declaration, not until the end of the period for the collection of signatures, noting that the regulation that we are harmonising was not prescribed by the time when the citizens of the Union must complete the requested period in order to be able to support the citizens' initiative and the law which has so far been in force has been laid down until the end of the period for the collection of signatures. The subsequent interpretation of the regulation by the European Commission, as referred to in Article 1, took the view that citizens of the Union should complete the required age on the day of signing from the EU support. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60842	I thank the minister. Does the committee reporter also want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, a respected colleague, Davor Bozinovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60843	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, good afternoon, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to start with something they talked about before. Yesterday, it was expressed dissatisfaction with the fact that some amendments are being adopted that will already be here today at the adoption of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Bacic and Mrs. Holly have a lot of understanding for your dissatisfaction since the previous point has not been considered
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60844	With all due respect, I must invite you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60845	I have to say this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60846	No, you can talk about what's on the daily, about the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60847	Now you'll hear. You, Mr. Vice President, transferred the notice of the Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure that the meeting is after the vote, and I will tell you that on the agenda of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure is to consider this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60848	A colleague of Bozinovic's, just to make a deal. You can look, your club can look for a break, and then you can talk after that break whatever you want but now you have to talk about the agenda point. Because according to the Rules of Procedure, if you're not talking about the agenda point, I have to take your word for it. Not because it bothers me that you're saying it. Ask for a break for five minutes and talk about whatever you want. Please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60849	Well, since we couldn't discuss this point at the board meeting, we'll consider it at the plenary session. I'd say this is a very important institute, Mr. Minister, and it's important to talk about it. I'm glad you guys talked about it in public at government meetings twice, if I calculated it twice 40 seconds correctly. So almost a full minute and a half for an institute that's brand-new in the Republic of Croatia. This is the most ambitious EU entry into the area of direct democracy so far. So he's trying to bring the so-called citizens closer. A technologically unclear remote decision-making process in the EU. It began all Mr. Ministers with Maastricht, with a Danish referendum where Denmark refused to ratify the referendum, and since then, a very broad debate has started in Europe on this so-called. the democratic deficit of the EU institutions. The usual aspects mentioned in this context are the non-transparent work of the EU Council, but also the impotence of the European Parliament. The phenomenon of European citizens' indifference is reflected in European elections, and there is a constant decline from 1979 to the last elections in 2009. 43%. I don't have to say that our result in the first European elections organised in the Republic of Croatia was 20.21% So even worse trends. This passivity has actually encouraged this initiative so that the European Citizens' Initiative is in some way the first challenge to the European Commission when it comes to its monopoly on decision-making or on proposing a legislative initiative within the EU. The aim of this institute is to strengthen public debate on European issues, in a way to build a bridge between European citizens and EU institutions, generate an actual public sphere of the EU and establish some kind of new channels that can bring fresh ideas from citizens to the EU institutions' agenda. Unfortunately, we are not talking about this, so this topic does not occupy the domestic scene, and I will tell you that national democracies, so Member States not only find the EU, but also particularly in the West, are looking for solutions to reconcile, how to satisfy EU citizens as I have said, even by intervention in the decision-making system. What is the practice is that where the ineffectiveness of the executive authority is greater and the initiatives are multiplying, and according to some studies, for example, the Institute of Forests of 2011 the reason is actually found in insufficient training, insufficient knowledge of those who should educate and these are Governments and this is the political elite. Strengthening these transnational debates within the Eu is very important. Even that constitutional convention that ran... It has seen and made these efforts to europeanise public discourse at national level, to discuss European topics in national parliaments, so all the opposite of what we would like to do today and today we are working and talking about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are dozens of interesting initiatives already launched, some have already finished. For example, an initiative to protect media pluralism through the harmonisation of national rules relating to media ownership, transparency, conflict of interest with political institutions and the independence of bodies authorised to monitor the media. Let's say it would certainly be an interesting topic, it is, of course, available, it is all available at the European Commission's meeting, but the government's job is to popularise things. Because if we were to do that, then we would come up with some conclusions and relativize even those concepts and some definitions that are most often handled, which are definitions from those textbooks, guides that are printed on dozens of pages, I don't underestimate but don't give a solution for everything. For example, and if this seems to be an impressive million signatures for one such initiative, a million signatures, a million citizens are only 0.2% of the EU population and only 0.3% of EU citizens with voting rights. If we were to compete with similar national instruments, we would see that there are disproportionateities, for example, a civil initiative on behalf of the family has brought itself closer to the number of a million. So, the European Commission is trying to bring this whole set of issues related to the European citizens' initiative closer to citizens, and this should also be done by the competent authorities across the Member States and I think that they are invited, given that you will take part in meetings of the European Council, the Council of the EU in the form of the Ministers of Administration. I think it is good to think about the issues that are within the scope of this initiative in a situation where the European Commission still has the freedom to choose an answer. This response may be from a real legislative proposal, it may be from a mere recommendation to the organisers of the initiative, and may also be giving some kind of optional opinion. There is a danger to the European Commission, because if it does not find the right balance in that response it can achieve exactly the opposite effect, which is that it further depopulates European institutions, the EU among citizens, especially those organised in some concrete initiative. On the other hand, the EU has its capacities which are not too large if much is said they are smaller than a multi-million-dollar city in Europe, so the city has a larger administration than the European Commission has, so there is a possibility that the European Commission will avoid the objections simply forwarding that initiative to Parliament or to the councils that are creators, i.e. legislators within the EU. The deadlines are unclear, these deadlines that you are talking about and which are here in the regulation they refer to the period of collection of the signature of the verification and the deadline given to the reply committee. However, there is no timing when we are talking about a deadline within which the Council or the European Parliament should be manifested. So here I am slowly hitting on you topics that I hope might be of use to you when you talk about this institute. Because only time and practice will actually show the range of this initiative. But trends exist, trends are defined especially when we talk about this institute as a form of direct democracy, which we are facing today in Croatia. And I can tell you that some of the latest research, especially in America, shows that some stereotypes worth around direct democracy today are becoming less and less valuable. For example, citizens are incompetent, making decisions. That's exactly the opposite. And the very presence of the Institute of Direct Democracy is very important for the executive power and for the legislative authority because it makes them do their job better and more efficiently. So I believe that this could make us both here and in the Parliament do our job more effectively. I was informed that I would speak on the second item of the agenda and that this one would come behind it, I don't know what happened to Mr. Vice President Greek's point somewhere in the translation. So for these reasons, we will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60850	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, a respected colleague, Boro Grubisic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60851	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Minister Bauk, we're glad you're back here. I'll be very brief and therefore far shorter than the predecessors. In this Act on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law implementing the Regulation of the European Union No. 211 of 2011. The European Parliament and the Council of 16 February 2011 on a citizens' initiative with the final draft law, it is a matter of explaining to our constituents and viewers that voting law is not the same as ordinary law. So, voting law is the right of the one entered in the electoral register. It's usually the right that comes from adulthood, so 18 years. So in this material, here's the only thing I resent is the expression of the EU pilot, so I think in our Croatian language the pilot means one thing and obviously not in this one, it's not about the pilot in Croatian but about something else entirely. So I would ask you, in the future, when you deliver materials to try to find some excessive Croatian word instead of this pilot, is this some kind of a guide, is it some kind of I don't know how to, I haven't yet tried to come up with this, replace that EU pilot word since 18 September. Therefore, a very fresh, very new EU pilot since 18 September 2013 points to a lack of compliance with the provisions of our law, which is prescribed for citizens of the Union in order to be able to support the citizens' initiative. The citizens' initiative, here's a series of examples of the latest, is the most recent citizens' initiative on behalf of the family, is that, and she's been collecting signatures to go out on a referendum. We are now wondering how citizens of the European Union who are not Croatian citizens who have residence or temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia could come out and support the citizens' initiative. Before he had to be included in the electoral list of any of the European Union countries now according to this pilot as the material states... It changes, and it's enough to prove that by the last day of the signing, he was 18 years old. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Right? ......... In Austria... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But we're Croatia, we're not Austria, come on, God, we used to be Austro-Hungarian and now we're just Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, in our country in Croatia this is proof that someone turned 18 with permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia or temporary stay. The same goes for you. So with this one I would say the liberalisation of the right to support some civil initiative is also true for Croatian citizens who are in the Netherlands or any other Germany or any other country in the European Union. So that's all there is to it, it's about one liberalisation, the right to sign a civil initiative, and that's the right to be reciprocal. Therefore, Croatian citizens in the European Union and citizens of the European Union in the Republic of Croatia have the right to give without having to verify the entry, so through the Ministry or the Ministry of State of origin. So, that citizen was registered in the voters' register in that country. And that's all. For that reason, because of such simple matter, I would say something like that, because I say certain liberalisations in the rights of supporting the citizens' initiative, I think that, not to think, but I know that the HDSB Club will vote for this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60852	Thank you very much. Does the Minister want to speak finally? Arsen Bauk. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60853	Otherwise, we passed something before joining the European Union, and a civil initiative has already been implemented under this law. The basic income required 8 or 9,000 signatures and Croatia was the first country in the European Union to collect a sufficient number of signatures. I thank the MPs who discussed the support, and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60854	Comrade Davor Bozinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60855	Of course, Mr. Minister, I wanted to point that out, but the vice president distracted me because he thought I was out of the context of what I needed to talk about, and I don't think he wanted to hear it. And I repeat, after 12 hours there is a meeting of the Committee on the Constitution to discuss this point, which will be voted in the Croatian Parliament in the meantime. Now what's this all about?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60856	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60857	Final draft law amending the Law implementing EU Regulation No 211/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 on civil initiative, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 535. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. And we've adopted this bill unanimously with 95 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60858	And we'll take another point as announced. This is - The Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia on the conditions of participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Union’s 2013 programmes, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 534 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Regional Development and the European Union Funds. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Minister of Regional Development and European Union Funds Dr. Jaksa Puljiz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60859	I thank the esteemed vice president. Honorable MPs and MPs. This proposal reduces the membership of the Republic of Croatia to participate in Union programmes. Croatia, as a Member State of 1.7, no longer pays membership fees for Union programmes and remains a payment obligation only for the first 6 months and the adoption of this law will simply halve the planned amount for membership. Of course, the amount when it was planned was planned for the whole year so that it now needs to be aligned with the fact that instead of 222 million kuna we will have to allocate 111 million kuna as membership fees for participation in Union programmes. Of these 111 million kunas just to remind you, 38.5 million kuna is financed from the IPA programme, and the share of the state budget will be 72.9 million kuna. I thank you for your attention and understanding. I hope support for adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60860	Thank you. The committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60861	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, good to see you. You were announced at the previous point but here you are now, it is good that you are here so that we can adopt this Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore a document which was originally part of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and after Croatia became a member of 1.7 it is in some way related to the Accession Treaty so that it is of course important because of this financial part because now the Union's programmes will be financed from the general budget of the Union. The contract, or memorandum, is important in the context of regulation for Croatia to determine or reduce membership by 50% for the first year of membership, i.e. half a year. In other words, everything related to this contract has already been applied, everything is already in practice and the only difference is that these special membership fees are not paid as they were but we are paying total revenues to the Union budget. However, since we are talking, of course, about this financial part, I think it is always good for the Parliament to talk about where we are now several months after our membership in the European Union when we talk about funds and the withdrawal of funds. What is certain so far is that so far the Republic of Croatia has paid a billion and 400 million kuna into the common budget, but we still do not have any clear, more accurate information on whether any of the money has been paid, whether one euro has come to the Republic of Croatia so far. I think that's something we expect, which the Croatian public expects. Of course, there is no need to simplify things to this extent and to say that this is the only reason why we have entered the European Union, we have entered for a whole series of reasons, political, security, value. But the fact is that we also participated in the campaign, and in the campaign we participated in a referendum on the European Union, all parties, at least here represented in the Croatian Parliament, pointed out to Croatian citizens that they would have concrete financial benefits from membership in the European Union. As at least public controversy in Croatia goes, there appear to be some problems in the field. We open up the possibility of getting 12 billion kunas a year. I think that, I would also say, is unfairly linked only to large infrastructure projects, although even if in that context we were to talk in our budget, we have a state budget of about 2 billion a year, and we can withdraw 12 billion. That job's obviously going a little slower. I know that there are problems, I know there are problems at all levels, and local ones, of course, look at the length of their mandate and therefore assess the funds, or projects that would run for EU funds. However, and if there are these problems, it is not enough to complain and not enough to say as the Deputy Prime Minister said the other day publicly that he failed. You should work, work with those units of local and regional self-government, and you should work on a strategic plan where I also see shortcomings. Because it feels that there is not enough synergy when it comes to the ministry's work and the co-ordinated role of the ministry, but certainly not at government level. Because in the flood of the strategy, in fact, for Croatia, there is no greater strategic interest for me, especially in this invisible economic and financial situation, except to create one strategy that would just be focused on development. Because the strategic documents are, although I'm not as professional as you are in all of this in some way the condition and their existence is a condition for some projects to be approved. Of course, if you don't have a strategic framework at national level, then it's hard to do it at local level and that's actually how I see the basic work of the Ministry of Regional Development. I agree again that it is neither easy nor simple unless there are enough people who are professional and competent for the job. Even the European Commission, if I am not mistaken, has pointed out this problem of lack of expert personnel, and we all know who wants to know, especially those who are working today, that a number of people who have been educated for years for this job, after the arrival of this government went to other places, and thus there has been a very serious discontinuity that no country that thinks and plans to work in the long term is working primarily on itself because human resources, no matter what, all the achievements of modern technology, technology, etc. are absolutely irreplaceable resources for this job. So that coordinate function worries me. Not only am I concerned, you know, the European Commission has not accidentally said that the strategy should not follow the projects but the process should be the other way around. The projects should be in line with the strategy, and the strategies of that type of vertical integration of strategic development documents from municipalities, cities, through counties to national strategies will not have, therefore, local entrepreneurs having a starting document when they run for a particular project. Here, Mr. Deputy Minister, I think this is certainly a question that needs to be opened and discussed. As for the memos themselves, I don't see anything controversial here, and the HDZ club will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60862	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60863	Thank you very much. Mr Bozinovic, you may be better directed at the matter, but we also saw the Greek minister who, therefore, said by electronic ballots, not to say the media that the Republic of Croatia has paid in the EU budget, so 240m euros, which would therefore amount to about a billion and 800m, and you said a billion and 400. Right? And if she had withdrawn 6 million more, 6 million euros more, which would have been about 2 and a half percent, so more withdrawn than paid. This is indeed a minimal and quite disappointing result of the withdrawal of funds available from the EU. That's what I wanted to replicate and correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60864	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60865	Here is my colleague Bozinović, when you mentioned a strategy that does not exist and the Ministry of Regional Development, on Friday we witnessed a law proposed by the Ministry of Regional Development by an emergency procedure, and then he was adopted where, for example, a region in our area in the Primorje-Gorski County, I am talking about the Gorski Kotar on the municipalities of Fužina, Lokva, Mrkoljalj, Ravna Gora, Vrbovska with the Transport Connecting Strategy opened by the construction of the Zagreb-Rijeka highway, by entering the EU border at Chabra practically disappears. They were deprived anyway of the minimum funds they had under that law and now the question is, we have no further strategy that such an example of local self-government units will prepare projects, let alone go into the realisation of anything since they have no funds. So you mentioned that the memorandum was acceptable and that it would be accepted. But I just wanted to look back on this part of your discussion that was about a strategy that was not available, and we're talking about this strategy all the time, and also about that Strategic Investments Act, and also about the Law on Spatial Planning, which is coming soon to another reading and finally adoption. And I think that this should certainly be taken into account in particular by the Ministry of Regional Development, not by indexing the development of some units of local self-government in that section by the number of residents and incomes they have because it definitely does not guarantee development, let alone attracting funds and preparing projects without the support of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60866	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60867	You told a colleague that I was vice president of the government saying that he said I failed. You say so, but it should work. You know very well because you have read the text published in one of our weekly and you have seen from the text what Minister Greekic, Vice-President of the Government is talking about. It speaks of the difficulty of the situation, it speaks of measures taken to get Croatia out of a hole, which she was pushed into not by her own fault. So here's the truth, I have to make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60868	Replication response, Davor Bozinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60869	Thank you, colleague Anticevic. Well, you know as well as I do that the political reflex, and the public's interest in the truth, always drives us when we're faced with some kind of public tampering to deny it. I'm sure you know the Deputy Prime Minister very well, but I'm sure he is, too, given that every day in the media there is someone who would have denied it by now. And let me when you read that text from it can be extracted, I know that the titles are mostly editorial freedom but it can be extracted from the title because Mr. Vice President is actually according to what it says confirmed that he failed. Although he said he didn't think he was the only one responsible. But look, he's not here, so we don't have to talk about him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60870	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60871	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Pugliz, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. This is before the vote that I also report on this legislative proposal to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding between the EU and the Republic of Croatia on the conditions of participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Union's 2013 programmes. So it's about understanding. Understanding consists of the general knowledge that we entered the EU on 1 July 2013 and therefore also resembling the participation or payment of Croatia for the 2013 programmes. I see only one excessive decision here, no special understanding or misunderstanding. I don't want to criticize understanding. Understanding is very good, but given that the basic issues proposed to be regulated by this law read in Article 1. The Memorandum of Understanding shall be governed by the principle under which the Republic of Croatia for participation in Union programmes in the first half of 2013 should pay the contributions of membership fees limited to 50% of the amounts previously provided for in the relevant Memorandum of Understanding in view of the date of entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU by half of the financial year 2013. So, it is quite clear that we have entered only the second half of this year we are members of the EU, the first half we are not and the membership fee for the programmes is halved. And now we should be as happy as that folk saying, take the priest's advice that the village gives you, and normally we'll adopt it. But that's exactly what it says in terms of law-making. So, given the favourable effect, as if we have received what we do not actually belong to some great understanding, this law has for the Republic of Croatia as regards the provision of a reduced contribution of membership fees to the participation of Croatia in Union programmes, it is proposed that the adoption of laws by emergency procedure should not go away because there is a legitimate interest in its recent stage of action. Just as I said, so we adopt this, so by that principle is as I have already said what we are obliged to pay 73 million kuna here is very close to 72,931 kuna of funds provided from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013. In any case, since it is an understanding between Croatia and the EU and the HDSB club, it will understand this reasoning and we will accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60872	Replica, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60873	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic HDSSB has an understanding against the memorandum but we cannot have understanding beyond the projection of the budget and what remains in the budget and we are talking about the IPA component 3B for Osijek where it is necessary and participation by the state at 9.9%. It was foreseen in projections of 97 million 119 thousand, but in the 2014 Budget we see 0. Therefore, there are no strategic documents, there is no Strategy 2014 and 2020, and I am afraid that next year we will also pay more fees than we will withdraw funds because units of local administration will not have the strength and fiscal capacity to participate in major projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60874	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60875	Comrade Bubalo, you are here to say conditionally a new representative, but when it comes to the statistical division of Croatia in two regions, and Mr Puljiz was present, then we have just warned that in small areas, in rural areas and Slavonia and Baranja have 35% of the GDP average of the EU will not be the funds but in some environments and personnel to write projects and withdraw funds. Unlike Zagreb, which is with us in the same basket in the same statistical region, NUTS 2 has, clearly much more than we do anywhere in Slavonia. For all Slavonian counties, it is to say mutilated, reduced budgets and what I do not understand is that the IPA programme that was simply thrown out of the 2014 budget for Osijek even though it is to say about the IPA project. And about Slavonski Brod, about Vukovar-Srijem County, Požega, Virovitski do not talk, you can look at the figures, we talked about it when the budget was on the agenda, so there will be a large number of amendments that will not be accepted unfortunately in this Assembly and then followed by clinical changes on the hands of some Croatian government officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60876	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. I'd like to ask you at 12 o'clock to be in the assembly because we're going to vote on the debated points. Thank you very much. It's 11:00.52.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-29-0.u60877	Final proposal for a law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the EU and the Republic of Croatia on the conditions of participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Union's 2013 programmes, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 534. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. And we've passed this bill with 96 votes for, so unanimously.
