ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u35470	I thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking you on behalf of the SDSS club to pause for five minutes so we can alert you to yesterday's event in the municipality of Krnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u35471	Okay. Dear Representative Nedjad, here's Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u35472	Thank you, Mr. President. Also on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, we're looking for a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u35473	Okay. Ten minutes enough to prepare? Thank you very much. I'm setting a 10-minute break. We're here at 11:00. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 10.57 HOURS]] On behalf of the SDSS Club, respected representative of Mile Horvat, they asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u35474	Dear colleagues and colleagues, yesterday's event in the small municipality of Krnjak, located in the center of the Kordun, has been almost undetected, I see that many colleagues here do not know what it is. So, the media put this information on a very low level. Besides some portals, they're almost gone, so there's nothing in the daily press about it today. What happened? Yesterday around 17 hours, 20 people in an alcoholic state, some in a non-alcoholic state, were held in the center of a cafe, stopped in a cafe in the center of Krnjak Municipality opposite the municipality building. There they made quite a mess, quite a circus, harassed people and insulted people, even bullied a man who was in '27. the year so the man barely escaped and then they saw the media say under quotes "Serbian flag" on the building of the municipality and reacted in a way that they were going to take it off. The first 20 of them were climbing on each other's shoulders and making a pyramid like that, when they didn't take it off, then they broke into the entrance door of the municipal building, and then they went upstairs and they broke the windows, or the balcony door of the council. That's where they made the chaos, the stampede, they took off that flag and left. So, the police, of course, caught them because they came in with 2, 3 cars, nothing unknown, and they were in an informative conversation last night. But why would I say that? There's two things to say. First, the flag that hung above, which allegedly provoked them, was the flag of the Serb national minority regulated by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Its shape, symbol and everything. And it differs greatly from the flag of the Republic of Serbia. The media, what is bad, called the flag Serbian and even misrepresented it. So here is the video showing the Croatian national flag and next to it the flag of the Republic of Serbia. It's a recording, a recording from the time of President Tadic's official visit to the municipality. So almost two years ago. The media said that this Serbian flag was reacted by the Torcida fans when they performed this vandal act. So what objective, professional and correct reporting are we talking about? The second thing that concerns us is the fact that the flag of the Serb national minority in the municipality of Krnjak has been standing since 2004 and so far it has not bothered anyone because in the municipality of Krnjak there has been built over the past 10 years a correct co-existence between the majority and minority peoples. This is an incident that has seriously brought this co-existence into question. The question is, what are the causes of such an act, how does that flag get in the way? We think that all of us who participated in these pre-election campaigns with our performances and speeches, messages in pre-election and election campaigns have contributed to certain groups reacting to this thing. If we have tolerated pre-election campaigns so far, a speech of intolerance toward certain ethnic groups, why are we surprised if someone in an alcoholic state reacts this way? We started with the Cyrillic first, and then some names, and now we're done with the flags. It's almost amazing to me that some candidates in the city of Vukovar as school principals are signing testimony at Cyrillic and Latin, quite normally as the directors sign it, and then speaking against the same Cyrillic in the election campaign. And they create a climate that results in this way. So don't the parties seriously have more quality programs, more quality material to perform in election campaigns than to work and grind their electoral body, their policy on such minority matters? We don't think that's good, all this together at the end and endangers achieving a degree of tolerance and achieving a degree of national minority rights and through our Constitution, through our legislation. In the end, we got a high grade before we join the EU, why are we allowing this whole thing to be questioned now that we're done? So we expect the MUP to react, to do its job. We expect the judiciary to do its job, and we also expect this High House to finally condemn such intolerances that, in the end, result in this kind of public behavior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u35475	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Nedzad Hodzic on behalf of the national minority club in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u35476	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Namely, I will first of all join the condemnation of this merciless event that happened yesterday and ask you all to make our contribution to making this country a final country of legal certainty for all its citizens. But what I feel is the need and I want to say that the messages that go and both from this assembly and from some of our distinguished colleagues very often go in that direction that I would say hidden chauvinism in gloves, and then on the ground we get different reactions. Several of the issues discussed in recent months about Cyrillic, I urge you to explain to people in Vukovar that this country is a sovereign country after independence, has achieved all political goals independently within the AVNOJ borders, NATO pact members and soon EU members. The only political goal we still have or the two that we still have is for this to be a country of economic well-being for all its citizens and for all its citizens and for every other security for all its citizens and for members of the national minorities. If it were up to me, I would at Bajak in Cyrillic, given that this tourist country in large letters has written welcome citizens of Serbia, welcome because we and we need you in the tourist season and we need you today when our young people are going to Europe, we will probably be filling ranks in our businesses of experts from Serbia and BiH, so these people must be welcome here. We are also witnessing on the Committee on Human Rights from individual colleagues sitting there to simply transfer us with how many votes we are entering the Croatian Parliament, but it is also to be said, the Croatian public, and especially the Croatian youth must know that, for example, Bosniaks died the most for this country and that after 1100 victims and 25,000 participants from 52,000 people working in public administration, the state administration 70 is Bosniak. Make a ratio. A youth in this country and all citizens of this country must know that Serbian civilians cannot pay the price of a large Serbian project from the '92s or from the 1990s that has brought evil to the whole region but mostly Serbia and how the price of the country unfortunately pays we see it. Everything collapsed politically, lost Montenegro, without Kosovo, in Vojvodina is what is happening, but of course we do and welcome the president who found the courage to apologize for Srebrenica and all those parts of the bad, but therefore cannot be blamed for Serbian civilians in Croatia who in the untimely events of '95 neither guilty nor debt paid a huge price. The Croatian public must know this and must first of all know the Croatian youth. Croatia was created on the basis of anti-fascism, Croatia has put these foundations into its Constitution and Croatian society completely, the Croatian public, and especially the Croatian youth must know that during the fight the anti-fascist contribution of the Serbian national minority in Croatia today was enormous and enormous. And that is why I ask you not to send messages from here that will potentially cause any ugly reactions but precisely the opposite when we have all the political goals to send messages that this is a normal country, of course it is a Croatian country, that it is a country of the majority of Croatian people, but it must be a country of equal citizens. In that sense, in the name of the club, I again regret this unkind event, but I urge you once again to send messages of affirmation to this country and to you as a domestic Croatian people in our public appearances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u35477	Thank you, too. I would like to say that Croatia is really building a society of high democratic standards, tolerance and understanding, respect, human rights and fundamental freedoms, the rights of national minorities and, of course, we have always regretted that any discrimination, in particular discrimination against our citizens, with grounds or connotations of national or international relations or discrimination is unacceptable. And that container from the pay phone is always there and in continuity, and that's good. Any discrimination is not good, it is not acceptable and will not be accepted either in the Croatian Parliament or in Croatian society, it is most important with approval but with disapproval and active prevention. Well, that's why I think it's a good thing that colleague Horvat said the police responded and already conducted the procedure. Thank you very much. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u35478	President of the Croatian Parliament, I sincerely expected you to react to what MP Hodzic said, that Serbian civilians paid '95. We adopted the Declaration of the Homeland War in this House and I don't think anyone has any human or moral or political right to say what Mr. Hodzic said because Croatia didn't create any genocide in '95 but had a Liberation Action Flash and Storm with which Croatian territory was freed. And you, if you don't like it, can re-stick jumbo crying in Istria like you did a few years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u35479	I didn't notice that sentence, okay. Thank you very much. Let's move on. We won't do it anymore. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u35480	[[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12,20 HOURS]] Stanko was asked first by the National Minority Club, so I give the word to my respected colleague, Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u35481	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, I would have said nothing to my fellow Shucker that reminded him of something in which it is actually a good part of a large wine shop because in 2007 the company HANN-INVEST when it had 105 employees when in a year it hired 45 new people in a way that naturally credited, it developed its business activity to experience one robbery, incredible proportions. Those of you who are in the former Parliament's council will remember and fellow Lesar has asked this House that we have addressed each other on two occasions, asking for nothing but protection of the legality and verification of the facts. We were writing jumbo posters that my colleague Shucker mentioned today, but he didn't say what it said on the jumbo posters, and they said "Corruption plaque" at the bottom. I've got a copy of the letter here, so we've been living with this since those days. So day and night me and my employees live with it. And why do we live? Because in '92, that's why I insist on legality when I took care of my parents from Bijeljina and my six-year-old son from the city that was first attacked in BiH was from Poreč from his own house with hundreds of other Bosniaks and Serbs expelled, arrested by police, we were handed over to the military police. I have witnessed the torture of Serb civilians on board a ship that sailed from Rijeka to Split by the Military Police, and therefore some of us citizens of the Republic of Croatia are very sensitive to every lawlessness. That's why we insist on it and we're here to protect personal interests rather than to protect and principle and I try to talk about it whenever I have the chance. So today and your sentence that I'm here to handle personal matters because it's very wrong. This is a company of 100 and some employees. But let's get back to the subject. This is just the reason I'd say we're smoking cold because I think we're right about that. We sent a letter to you as the Minister of Finance at the time, and I will read the last part of that letter in which the employees are standing, not I have signed it, but the employees of 100 and some people "Dear Mr. Minister on behalf of all taxpayers as well as on behalf of the vast majority of honest and responsible people in inspection services, we invite you to check our allegations and do not let the work of an irresponsible inspector and his even more irresponsible head result in the robbery of millions of proportions. We consider Mr. Ministers to be a time of haughtiness", which is what associates me at all times "that the times of haughtiness in which we, like many others, have paid a very high price for all of us, and that you will not let what happens on the threshold of EU entry happen." That it was a robbery even confirmed by the Ministry of Finance. So our jumbo cry roadblocks etc. have resulted in a partial check. I've got three IRS documents here, so your ministry says it's $3 million, so with interest, it's grown to 2 and 400, and then in a few months, someone makes a partial check, it falls to 2 and 300. It's already proof that someone wanted to take a million and so much, and everything else was invented by 99% and it's millions. So it wasn't 100 grand or 1,000 kunas, so it was an enormous robbery of incredible proportions. I'll remind you only of that second part that we insisted on, so when we got a solution from the IRS that this debt was shrinking, we're doing further pressure, we're blocking the roads in Rijeka and we're looking for a full check that isn't coming naturally on. Now who were you we warned about? Let me remind you gentlemen, this is the head of the IRS who will later end up in prison for bribery and corruption both with power or with power, I don't know, being convicted. It's an inspector who's also convicted of other things and is no longer an employee. That's what we warned Mr. Minister, or former minister and current colleague. So when I speak in this House, believe me, I want to get to no one, and especially not to my children and anyone's children whose things happen. Today, if someone were to open 40 new jobs, probably the prime minister would come to be present or president, and today you associate me with those times that are very painful for me. That's my motive for me getting into politics, when I saw how society works, I said it won't work like this anymore. So, just the last sentence, so what we're still asking for is to be controlled in this country, I guess there's some sort of judicial expert, which is why we've been invented a million, and that's what the ministers wrote to you, and I'm going to leave you a copy of this letter, and I'm going to quote just one sentence that says, "an authorized judicial expert for some kind of imaginary upgrade, and all that's been upgraded has nothing to do with the Ministry of Finance." Just one sentence. [[Intruder: Time.]] "I, as a designer, constructor, statistician, court expert and mentor, do not see candidates for court experts at the building upgrades." So that's the actual condition for the first million that we've been looking for and doing roadblocks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u35482	Thank you very much. Now, we have the Rules of Procedure we have, and as long as we have him, I have to respect him. I'm talking to my colleague Hodji. The Assembly should not be a place where private or business interests should be discussed. You answered on behalf of the Minority Club, I didn't hear you talking about minority problems, but when someone asks for a word on behalf of the club chairing that word he must give when he asks for a break. But it may warn us that now that we are going to change our Rules of Procedure to change it and give the chairman authority to stop this speech. A fellow Shuker came forward on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u35483	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will not speak beyond the subject nor use this pay phone for certain things, but I will say that for this pay phone on behalf of a private, private company that the Ministry of Finance has committed an enormous and unprecedented robbery, I think it is extremely inappropriate. Another thing, Mr. Hodzic, if you're saying you're fighting corruption, then you should know that the tax administration has one great independence and that no minister of finance who wants good will ever order his country to make a tax inspector one way or another. So, your subject was in a regular administrative procedure, the institutions of the Republic of Croatia will bring the word as it was. I said the jumbo posters, but you were attacking the personal and working freedom of tax administration employees. You can't because, you think you're right to insult yourself, don't talk about the head of the tax administration here, but you personally attacked the head of the secondary procedure, it's personal insult and threaten her. That was a classic threat. The other thing, in order for the situation to be clean, I personally asked the State's Attorney's office to check completely and what the tax administration was doing and your... And precisely for the protection of dignity, first of all, the Ministry of Finance but not to put myself in a position to dictate something as head of the ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's where I'm going to stop, and you're obviously at this point in the conflict of interest. I recommend to all my colleagues that they take a look at the complaints in the Human Rights Committee because I simply don't want to comment on things, I don't want to go down. But there's something I want to say that I've responded to. First of all, as a man, as a man who simply cannot accept your findings. I quote: "But for this reason, it cannot be the fault of Serbian civilians in Croatia who in the unfavorable events of 95th or dues have paid a huge price.". That's what you said, Mr. Hodzic here. First of all, "Glass" and "Storm" aren't a mere event. "Glass" and "Storm" are the pride of the Croatian people. Legitimate, liberating, military-related action. For which the International Court in The Hague also gave that Croatian generals did not commit war crimes. So you can't say here for this pay phone, under... where my colleague Horvat reacted justly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we would do well to react to all such incidents both. And when it paints on the monuments of Croatian defenders in Boro's village, we all need to react, it's simply something that can't happen. But you said what you said. And it offends the common sense of every Croatian man. It offends the common sense of every well-intentioned Croat. Because you can't say that what every Croatian citizen is, I'm not going to say about the Croats, but every well-intentioned Croatian citizen is proud and it's "Blash" and "Storm", you'll say it's an unkind action, not Mr. Hodzic. "Blash" and "Storm" are not unloved actions, "Blash" and "Storm" are one magnificent military victory of the Croatian people, one magnificent return to occupied territory, take as many hands as you want, a magnificent, return of Croatian occupied territory, integrated into the Republic of Croatia. And that's something, whenever you say it, I'll stand up to it. Both me and all my colleagues and probably colleagues from other clubs no matter what political option they belong to. Or just what I told you. And that's the key to everything. That you have no moral, no legitimate, no human right to say what you said. It's an unfortunate event. It's not some street fight, so you can say it was an unkind event. Why didn't you say about the great sufferings of the Croatian people, too, where people were killed are neither guilty nor in debt. You said what you said. ... Look, when there's no argument he's talking like this, then it's about a ruthless robbery, etc... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder: Please do not throw.]] Yeah, I said in my last sentence that you could re-stick jumbo posters, for the simple reason of wanting to protect the integrity of state service employees. We can't talk about fighting corruption. We can't say that we are because we publicly attack those who work in the public service. It's simply no one's right. State, you have after the administrative and senior Supreme Court that will bring some kind of justice, whether someone likes it or doesn't like it, but you have to respect it. But you can't take justice into your own hands. You protected your private interests on the street and over the jumbo posters, and again today you're acting like one. You threatened me as a minister. [[Intruder: Time.]] So what, then? But I'm saying, just one more sentence, for the sake of a clear conscience, for the sake of the Ministry of Finance's dignity, I've asked the State's Attorney's office to examine the whole case. [[Intruder: Time.]] And if I'm not mistaken in that context, some kind of procedure has been drawn. Therefore, do not ever ask any minister... One inspector's record because then it's chaos and disaster. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've never done that before, and I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u35484	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39569	Dear MPs in the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives in the Croatian Parliament, continue with the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. It is on the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in relation to interstate adoption, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 357. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was carried out by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received a report from these working bodies at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Social Policy and Youth, respected Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39570	Very short on this International Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation with regard to interstate adoption. In fact, this is a convention signed by all EU countries, and this is what Croatia is kind of joining. We also sign it for some additional reasons because at this point we have a certain legal vacuum that has not protected our citizens or children from possible abuses. In fact, you were all witnesses and you could read in public that we had problems with some agencies that were doing let's say in one gray zone, in one legislation that wasn't regulated. This Convention will help us to protect ourselves in any way from those who would like to, I try to choose words, so who would like to work in some way and deal with adoption of children but beyond the law and beyond international regulations, and then the question is whether it is really all legal or behind it hiding child trafficking. We also had situations where our people went to some countries where it was very difficult to get these people out when they were detained there by the legislation of those countries, countries where there are neither embassies nor anything. So, a very serious situation and this convention should, therefore, protect both children and our citizens and finally set certain rules for the game here. So it is possible to adopt internationally, but according to very clear rules, the game that has so far not been fully arranged and has opened up space for these imaginative people who have made huge money in this way. But I hope that here is our legal system that will work in such a way that fair sanctions will arrive. Because the most immoral thing that can be done is that people who want to help children who wanted to adopt children regardless of what countries they came from to earn huge money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39571	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the board of working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to take part in the reports? Oh, no? Yeah. The Health Committee, the Honorable Representative of Biljana Borzana. Here are the honourable MPs, the president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39572	Thank you, Mr. President. At its 25th meeting yesterday, the Committee on Health and Social Policy amended Article 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the second row, the words "which are based in accordance" shall be deleted as follows: "in Article 39(2). The Conventions to which they shall replace the words "with an agreement concluded with the application of Article 39(2). The Convention to which, on the grounds that Article 3 of the Third Declaration, which the Republic of Croatia will declare when the accession document is laid down, it has been observed that the text of this Declaration should be aligned with the statement of Article 39(2). The Convention to which the declaration relates and in a way that makes it more clear from the text of the Declaration that the third declaration refers to agreements concluded by the application of Article 39(2). Conventions which Contracting States may conclude with one or more other Contracting States in order to improve the application of the Convention in their mutual relations, as this is not fully evident from the proposed text. The Committee on Health and Social Policy unanimously supported this amendment as well as the final text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39573	Thank you very much. Reporters of other working bodies? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The debate begins with the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's turn in the Croatian Parliament and a respected representative of Gordana Sobol. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39574	I would like to thank Mr. President, Madam Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Therefore, the SDP club fully supports the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in relation to interstate adoption, and this is precisely the case in the urgent procedure, because we believe that it was really finally time for Croatia to join this Convention. It should remind us all together that the Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in connection with interstate adoption was drawn up in The Hague on 29 May 1993, and took effect on 1 May '95. A year. In 2004, the UN Committee for the Rights of the Child in Geneva recommended Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, to ratify this Convention, so back in 2004. Meanwhile, according to the information and knowledge we have and the European Commission has repeatedly encouraged Croatia on several occasions to join the Convention and become its party. As can be seen from the reasons so far, 90 countries have joined the convention. And here we are in 2013 doing it and here we are finally in Croatia. True, I would say what must have spilled the glass when it came to this problem it was that there was this rather media-exposed case of adoption of children from the African country of Congo and the malversions that were established, or the minister was choosing words when she spoke, but someone was making literally profiting and earning his own profit on wishes, the needs of justifiable people who found out that it was somehow the best, the fastest way to reach such a wanted child. This, of course, raises another question when we talk about adoptions. When we followed how media was pretty exposed then follow people's reactions, etc. And then you could come across a guy's remarks, so who made them go to some Congo or some other country, so we have so many kids in Croatia that can be adopted. However, everyone has their reasons, all of these reasons are justified but one of the reasons that certainly states that as far as adopting children, so Croatian children here in Croatia are all aware that for years it was a system that was completely unregulated, a system in which it was not known how many people in Croatia are interested in adopting children, how many children in our homes are willing to say for adoption and for entering new families. But here, last year in the middle, if I'm not mistaken, two months the ministry finally arranged for me to say these lists, and we finally came up with a number of people in Croatia today, actually over 600 people, couples or themselves, or 45 single parents want to, and on the list are those who realize all the opportunities to access adoption, and at the same time so few children are given up for adoption and what is said ready with all clean papers over 120, 130 children could be adopted in time and that in a new family so I can say start a new life. So, this is something that Croatia had to face one day and I am glad, in the SDP, that finally this ministry is now going into the process and we hope that, even with the changes, we hope for the fall, the family law that is being prepared, this adoption process will finally enter into the frameworks that need to be entered. Croatia has all the legal assumptions and there is no reason not to make bigger steps in that part. I repeat, as a SDP club, we all support this convention. We believe deeply that, in the largest number, because of everything it adopts as a convention itself, it will enable all those who want to adopt a child outside of Croatia to do so in a much easier way, with much more help in the advisory and any other sense when it comes to the Republic of Croatia itself, and that it will make it impossible for individual agencies or some other companies that have actually earned their own profit in this legal vacuum so far. I repeat, on the back of those people who wanted to adopt a child from noble initiatives no matter what country he came from. So in this sense, the SDP welcomes the final signing, or accession to this Convention, and we believe that what it brings in the future will allow for clean work, clean paper and happiness for both adopters and children who come into such families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39575	Thank you very much. A single replica was reported to your presentation. Dear representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39576	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Sobol, you said that this convention will help Croatian people, families to adopt children and beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. I, to be clear, absolutely support the adoption of this convention because it will legally regulate the previously unregulated areas of international adoption when it comes to them for a variety of reasons. It will protect both our citizens and children in Croatia in the event of international adoption. But what will not be achieved by this convention is certain, which is to facilitate the adoption process as you yourself spoke within the Republic of Croatia. It's a long-unsolved area. Here is now the second year of the government's mandate, we have long heard about some changes to the law and improvements in implementation. It seems to me that this should have been done earlier and was mainly not done before, and it is now resolved that gray area in adoption and assistance to families who want to adopt in the area of the Republic of Croatia, and above all here I mean social care centres that should be very helpful to future parents of adopted children and not that they are wandering and having huge costs, must address all over Croatia with individual centres, and not to say that off the record are directed to then address what should not be addressed, and that is to homes that care for unsettled children. And of course, people in a terrible desire for a child reach for all the methods to reach the child. So, first of all, it is necessary to resolve this issue within the Republic of Croatia, but of course parallel and support this Convention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39577	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39578	I spoke about the problem of my colleague Lovrin's adoption of the problem in Croatia right within the framework and explaining one of the reasons why parents or people from Croatia decide and want to adopt a child outside Croatia. But let me put it this way, very mildly I'm going to say, it's very convenient now that your concern and a warning that almost two years will pass, and since nothing has moved in this area that legal solutions have been announced, etc. My colleague Lovrin, I wish that was how you and your colleagues spoke all those years in power. And when we warned that there was a problem that welfare centres don't do their job, that there are people waiting, that there are children growing up in the country, they welcome adulthood, and they had clean papers to be adopted. If you think that system can be solved in a year and a half, then you're wrong. But I told the ministry last year in two months between me not being wronged for four and six months last year did what you failed to do for a few years because there was not enough will, and that is to finally settle the lists of possible adoptors, to determine exactly what status the children are in. And if I'm not mistaken recently, the minister just went out with that clean one month or two ago, where you can see exactly how many kids are ready for adoption at this hour. I believe that what has been done is done and I am convinced that what has happened in the last year is much more than what you have done in the last few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39579	Thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is next to the HNS club in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39580	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected ministers with a deputy, colleagues and colleagues. We recently discussed and passed the Law on maternity and parental support, if you remember, so we discussed the Law on maternity and parental benefits which we, among other things, equalized the duration of adoption and parental leave for adoptive parents regardless of the age of the child. It is not and will not be crucial in the decision of those who want to adopt a child or children but it is simply more fair. And fair but also business is that those who decide to adopt children or children reduce risk or uncertainty about the recognition of the adoption process. So if someone decides to adopt a child, for example. from Germany, Austria or our Croatian business state is simply to reduce uncertainty and risk in this process. and this is confirmed by this Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in relation to interstate adoption and achievement. A legal framework is being created to monitor international adoption, reduce child and adoptive stress, reduce difficulties arising from differences in national legislation, and adoptors do not have to worry about regulations, translations and various procedures, paperwork and processes themselves. At this point, Croatian citizens are also mentioned by my colleague Sobol, forced to find a way to adopt a child in another country, so the convention will allow Croatian citizens to support their country in realising their desire for adoption as well as greater security for children adopted or wanted to adopt by some foreign citizens. The Convention accurately determines how to communicate between competent authorities and persons with children and adoptors, regulates the storage of data on adoption and the like. Children who cannot find parents in their country will be made easier to do so in other countries of the signatories of the Convention with a secure and transparent procedure and protection of all their rights. And the purpose of the convention is to prevent child abduction and trafficking and to ensure that, in interstate adoption, adoption is in the best interests of the child. And all the laws and conventions prescribe that the welfare and interest of the child are the most important but practice and actions of some institutions, but also some parents show that it is not always regrettable. Like that. In a report on the work of the Ombudsman for children, which we will normally discuss, I think perhaps next week, we can see that in the previous year, in the group of crimes violence at the expense of children, 1058 criminal acts of abandonment and child abuse have been reported. In the report of the Ombudsman for children, we can see that this institution has also received comments on the conduct of competent institutions, e.g. Social care centres, police, and the state's attorney's office themselves. The complainants complain of their inefficiencies, bias against one parent, lack of sensitivity or slowness in conduct. Centres often do not respond and do not express measures of family and legal protection to parents or initiate judicial procedures to deprive parents of parental rights. This reduces children’s chances of gaining conditions for living in foster families. It is unacceptable for children who are certain that returning to a biological family is not in their interest to keep them in institutions rather than be adopted. It is particularly worrying that institutions also have children who meet the legal assumptions for adoption. But we are pleased to hear announcements from the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth that are currently in the making of many changes and additions and changes that will facilitate and speed up the adoption process. Recently, my colleague also spoke about this and also spoke before me on the basis of data from the Centre for Social Care and a unique register of potential adoptors on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which we hope will help many future parents and children to achieve their dream. We are particularly pleased to announce that a phone call in three months means that a parent takes care of a child who has been temporarily taken away from him, so such a practice is frustrating with the right of those who really want to take care of that child or children. It's frustrating, of course, for those who really want to take care of those children. And unfortunately, some still feel that a phone call from parents within three months is sufficient reason to extend the duration and lengthening of the child’s care and care measures in the home despite reports from institutions that warn of inappropriate and negligible parent behavior that should be the reason for the decision to deprive parental care. Deprivement of parental care is a final measure when the possibility that a parent will take care of a child in a quality and responsible way is unfortunately almost impossible. But if these actions were truly justified, if they were to move more and to finish faster, they would reduce the emotional harm done to the child and, of course, increase his chance to find their new family. A slowness or delay in the accommodation of a child into a new family can damage their development and reduce the opportunity for a child to find a permanent family. Because all research shows that the chances of child adoption decrease by almost 50% for every year in which adoption doesn't happen. As far as we can hear from the ministry, they are working on it and agree with the adoption support organisations that claim it is necessary to change and edit the way they apply for adoption. That it is necessary to edit the way and process the adoptors. It is also planned to organise support for adopters after adoption through the establishment of a service that would provide professional support. We certainly welcome that. Various studies show that the quality of support and better availability and cooperation of institutions responsible for adoption, sensitivity and professional relationship of professionals with adoptive workers are linked to the success, course and happiness of the new family. That is why we hope and believe that these additional changes and improvements will come quickly and that this will reduce the number of children in institutional forms of care. However, there is also a need to work on reducing the uptakes of the adopted society somewhere. For this is a good example and performing a theatre performance for children and young titles I, you, what, are us, who are also supported by the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and on the boards of the theatre speaks of adoption as an equally good way to start a family. We in the HNS are also convinced that this is an equally good way of establishing a family and adopting a convention, namely the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation with regard to interstate adoption, will set up a system of cooperation, enable uniformity of conduct and prevent illegal segregation, sale or trafficking of children, and therefore we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39581	Thank you very much. The club of HDZ representatives in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Ivanka Roksandić is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39582	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Minister with Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. My predecessors have already said in an announcement of this debate that this law, which is before us, confirms the Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in relation to interstate adoption, that here in a few days it will be 20 years from now as this Convention is written and drawn up. That since 1995 it has been in force and here after the Croatian Parliament adopts this Convention it will become part of the internal legal order of our Republic. Why is she so important? And my predecessors said so. First of all, the Constitution guarantees every care for children and youth, mainly for those children and youth who are without parental care and who live without parents. The Republic of Croatia is also the signatories of an entire series of international agreements in the field of child and youth protection. As it is a very, very sensitive area, the area of adoption of children, it is well known that this Convention, which primarily aims to protect the adoption of children, but also aims at the uniformity of the conduct in cases of interstate adoption and best protection and children and adoptors, will make the Republic of Croatia a protected country as regards this adoption process. A colleague of König pointed out that the child care attorney in her annual report last 2012 stated that the problem of adopting children and the examples she cited in which fosterers and biological parents point to the problem of protecting the privacy of the adoption of children and of the difficulties faced by adopters who decided to adopt interstate. Biological parents and potential adoptors are dissatisfied as co-worker König has said with the evaluations and decisions of the competent authorities in the procedures for deprivement of parental Serbs and adoption. According to the Ombudsman, the stay of children in institutions, I quote, for children without adequate parental care takes too long. For various reasons in institutions and foster families live and children who have all the conditions for adoption. In its report, the Ombudsman states that an intensive social care centre is needed in the adoption process, especially for adoption of older children who are more difficult to find potential adopters. The very important provision of this convention that we are discussing today and the law is to prescribe protection measures that will ensure that interstate adoption is carried out in the best interests of the child, while respecting its rights. A very important role, and this is central to what is being discussed in the convention, has the central authority in the adoption process in charge of the implementation of this Convention. The Republic of Croatia has prescribed Article 4 of this Act that the implementation of the law within the scope of the central authority of the State Administration is competent in matters of social care. Authorised bodies for the implementation of the adoption procedure, i.e. persons working in these bodies have a very high responsibility for carrying out the adoption process. they must determine whether the potential adoptors meet all the criteria for the adoption of the child, as well as whether the child is similar to that for adoption. Article 11 The Convention is prescribed that central authorities must, I quote, be "managed and filled with persons who, according to their ethical principles, education or experience, are qualified to work in the field of interstate adoption and to be supervised by the competent authorities of their country as regards their system, work and financial situation". That's exactly what's very important is that the people who are working on the adoption process again wouldn't be able to manipulate any decisions. It is evident from this, as well as from the reasons given to us by the Ministry, that it will be necessary in 2014 to employ at least two employees on these jobs, in 2015 and 2016 of one official, which says that even after the adoption of this Convention, and I believe that we will adopt it this week, it will enter the eighth day of publication, this year the service will not begin with work, which means that the adoption standards of this Convention will not apply, although we are passing this law by emergency procedure. That's why I really have to show regret, but I believe that the funds and that's for sure, for this year there's no need to hire new employees. It is very important to cooperate between all bodies, these central authorities that carry out the adoption process both by the child and the adoptor, because given the complexity of the adoption role, it is important to provide professional assistance and support to the adoptor in the adjustment period, but also later. That is why monitoring this whole process and what happens later with this child is very important, and this is also mentioned by colleague König. Since adoption is a very sensitive issue, but also quite complicated, we must acknowledge this, and often we are witnesses especially in undeveloped countries where children become almost a commodity for which the rich world provides large financial resources, so it is especially important to highlight what central authorities implementing the adoption process must take all measures to prevent illicit financial or other benefits. Cooperation between these central authorities in countries that give their child to act in the adoption process and adoptors must indeed be great, therefore cooperation between state bodies must be great. The proposed law has only 6 articles and technically it resolves ratification of this Convention. It is important that Croatia, in Article 3, and we consider it very important, has contributed some of the statements it will make with the regulation on treatment, so it has shown some reservations to some of the provisions of this Convention, and these relate primarily to the fact that adoption of children who are resident in the Republic of Croatia can only be implemented in cooperation with the central body of another state that has such public authority, which means great protection precisely for the protection of children and adoptors, that adoption which is not based on the basis of this Convention in a country with which the Republic of Croatia does not have signed contracts that will not be recognised, again one major protection mechanism to avoid manipulation, unfortunately for the purposes of the manipulation of this word, with children and the adoptors, that documents that apply to compulsory translation into Croatian language and very important, in our laws for now, that the child can not leave the territory of the Republic of Croatia, although some countries are able to move towards a new country before the entry into the entry into a new country. This may also be a good way to introduce the child to a new environment, but it may also be a great danger for when there will be no final adoption and when the child must really go through that return to the institution from which it came. According to some data, 1150 children unfortunately await adoption in their homes, and there are 1700 more in foster families, and the potential number of adopters is increasing each year. More than 600 people this year are awaiting adoption. For children without parental care waiting for their family and home, every day spent in an institution is a day of less family environment and warmth, and therefore this convention will help anyone who wants to adopt a child, who is sometimes forced and alone to hear and without the support of the institutions, find different ways to speed up the adoption process and even find their own child for adoption. We hope that this Convention will at least have a little impact on the faster procedure, on the easier possibility for our citizens to adopt a child from another country but also encourage us to change the same legal provisions that will speed up adoption within the Republic of Croatia, primarily because of a large number of children who have the right to grow up in the family, but also those who want to be parents, and for various reasons they cannot and are not allowed to support this Law implementing the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Interstate adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39583	Thank you very much. The club of representatives of HSU in the Croatian Parliament is next and is a respected representative of Višnja Fortuna. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39584	Thank you very much, esteemed President, dear Minister with an associate. So I'd start with what the minister just told us very carefully, and say there was a legal vacuum in that area, a gray zone. I would say that there was everything and everything and that it was actually me choosing words, but the market, the illegal market, and it was happening on those most sensitive groups and in those areas that no normal man can think of can happen. So just so, let me tell you briefly, very briefly, the adoption procedure at the moment that he is in our competent ministry, that is how he is conducted at the competent social care centres in Croatia. Therefore, according to the residence of the child and to the residence of potential adoptors, processing and procedures are being initiated. As regards the initiation of procedures and the adoption process, children are mostly located in child care institutions and located in foster families. I would also point out here that the very competent ministry not only in children's institutions but also in all institutions has launched and is working very intensively on the deinstitutionalisation process, so it is certain that, here I am also very much in favour of and I believe that in this way it is for those children who are waiting as well as those who have spoken in the debate, who are waiting in the adoption process for a lot of children in this last period as I have information is in the families and families of foster parents not only in the institutions. If it's children who are adopted outside our country as far as I know, it's very, very rare. I have information maybe one or two last few years I don't know how many years, but then the procedure was next. A competent centre where there was a child's residence had to inform all other centres that there was a child, so all other centres could be involved if they had a potential adopter at the level, in the area of Croatia as a whole. If no one showed that interest to any of the centres in that case, and there was that for the child's interest he was, it had to be confirmed by the competent ministry. Now it's social policy and youth. I note, it was very rare and everything else that happened on this issue was a gray zone, it was agencies that actually had an interest, and the interest of the child was whether or not I judge here to judge all of you respected MPs and MPs. I would also like to stress and actually the competent ministry has really started to work in this area, and it has already done a great deal of it, and this means that the register of potential adoptors and children is now arranged, and that we have over 600 potential adoptors in this register, and also that in the area of adoption of children, much more intensively, I think much more intensively, and that indeed every child now waiting for adoption will not and can no longer wait to grow up, but indeed great, great attention and social care centres are very, very alerted, and indeed there has been a major shift that I am doing this opportunity and commend, or I support. The other part that was not so far, and it will be, and it has already begun after that is supervision and assistance, not potential ones, but adoptors, or parents. So through the whole part for the child, and also for them to continue this child’s life in that family, which was the best form of being as good and better. Also, the proposal for this law on the confirmation of the Convention is absolutely necessary, not necessary, but I am sorry that it has been waiting for so long at all, and therefore the urgent procedure and everything, not to support but here we are lucky to have it here in the debate, so I would also briefly look back at what it means and one thing I said is that now 600, over 600 potential adoptors, and this convention will certainly be smaller, and also, we all say the child's interest here in this convention and these adoptions is unquestionable. So we said the 1995 Convention came into force. The convention has been ratified by 90 countries including all EU countries. Therefore, it will allow for a quick way of handling, faster uniformity of conduct in cases of interstate adoption and commits to respect certain principles in accordance with the agreement of the Contracting States. It is important and specific to the Convention that its application ensures recognition in the Contracting States of adoptions established in accordance with the Convention, thus ending the need for the subsequent recognition of the adoption decision in the country where the child is adopted, or from which the child comes from. The States Parties to the Convention shall assume different obligations and shall be one to determine the central authority to be responsible for implementing the obligations set out in the Convention. The central body will be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, of course. It is necessary to establish it, it will be in early 2014. I agree with my colleague that it would be very good if this were by way of the law, but I also understand the budget and the funds, so in early 2014, it will begin with work. The Convention shall ensure the protection of best interests for a child in accordance with the objectives of the Convention where inter-state adoptions are carried out in the best interests of the child with the establishment of cooperation between Contracting States that will ensure that protection measures are respected and that child trafficking, sale or trafficking are prevented. The adoption under the application of the Convention shall be carried out only if the competent authorities of the country of origin have determined that the child is similar to that of the adoption, that it is the best interest for the child, that care is taken of the age and degree of maturity of the child, to take care of the child’s wishes and consent to the adoption. Of course, this consent depends on the child’s age, and it has not been affected by either payment or compensation of any kind. The central authorities that will cooperate with each other and promote cooperation between competent authorities in their country in order to protect the interests of children will take all appropriate measures to ensure all necessary information, information on the application of the Convention and to remove any obstacle to its application. The competent authorities of the state administration shall ensure that data relating to the child, relating to the child’s origin, in particular data on the identity of the child’s parents of biological, particular medical history data, social history and all documents which must not be made known to anyone other than the competent authorities, i.e. those responsible. Furthermore, the competent authority which determines that a provision of the Convention is not respected or that there is a danger of being followed hastily must inform the central authority of the country from which the child is from. It will then be responsible for taking urgent appropriate measures to remove irregularities immediately. The adoption within the scope of the Convention shall be carried out only if the competent authorities of the receiving State have determined that the potential adopters are similar and appropriate for the adoption of children, that they are consulted to the extent to which they must be and where necessary and have determined that the child has or will be authorised to enter and stay in that State. It is also important to stress here that if the adoption is carried out after the transfer of the child to the receiving State and the central authority subsequently finds that further adoptions are not in the best interests of the child then the central body will take measures to protect that child. I hope that such situations will not be much, that it will also be very, very rare, but then you will have to take immediate measures to find potential adoptors for the child or to get the child back home. If, of course, it's in the child's interest to return it. And everything must be in agreement, in association with the central state body of origin of the child. Therefore, this part of the exposure shows what it means to apply this Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation with respect to international adoptions in interstate adoption. What's most important here is that they really protect themselves, no matter what we have, other conventions that protect the child's interest, but with the protection of the child's rights here is in the first and only place of the child's interest. The HSU Club will all-out support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39585	Thank you very much. It is up to the HDSSB representative club and respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39586	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister with a co-worker, co-worker and fellow MPs. We heard from all clubs that together we agree that the Convention should be implemented through law into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia and it has been too long for one such issue to be put into effect for 20 years in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. However, there is no need to worry too much about it and so far our Constitution and a series of international contracts and international documents of the Republic of Croatia have been a bond to protect the interests of children through both the Constitution and through international agreements and through UN conventions on the rights of the child and therefore there are many of these provisions in our Family Law so that there is no open question that this Convention is now the only one that will deal with the best interests of children in the Republic of Croatia. Many of us have passed the law and what is most important, and it is important for this Convention, it is important to implement the laws themselves and the conventions themselves. The best interests of the child, the best legal solutions, the best interstate and international agreements are not good enough if, above all, the legal system of the Republic of Croatia and, above all, social care centres and persons who need to be professional and competent to a sufficient extent, do not do their job well, i.e. to a sufficient extent, carry out what is clearly prescribed by law. So the legislator gave a firm legal framework to the current family law and other international agreements, this is just an international convention that is very important and that will facilitate and prevent this black zone. Unfortunately, this black zone exists in this area too, so the adoption of children. This is therefore a sensitive and important issue and indeed should have been implemented in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. We have also heard data on how many children are on the waiting for adoption, and we have heard how many obstacles there are in social care centres when the issue of taking parental care away for parents who are irresponsible to their children goes on for 3, 4 or 5 years when the child is already growing up does not solve the legal issue of such children and such relationships of parents, and then it is harder to adopt children who are not at that young age than have passed over several years of life. It is therefore necessary to do everything in our legal system to initiate certain measures in existing legislation or to improve legal solutions so that this procedure is not delayed and that it is in the best interests of the child who is ready for adoption. And we can see that it says out of 600 adoptors who are on hold to adopt children that this is a question that needs to be sharpened and extended by legal measures. This interstate adoption of how it allows our citizens to adopt children in the countries signatories of the Convention, 90 countries have signed the convention, all EU countries, thus allowing other citizens from signatories to adopt children in the Republic of Croatia. Strong mechanisms are strong, we will need to see from the proposal, so according to the final draft of the law and certain financial resources. I think that there should be done everything in this central body that will be responsible for interstate cooperation on these issues of adoption of children and any questions which oblige us under the Convention to ensure sufficient financial resources in the state budget, to ensure the professionality and competence of people and the employment of people in the central body who will best implement the Convention in the best interests of child protection and the interest of the child to receive the adoptor as soon as possible if they fulfil all legal assumptions under the positive legal system of the Republic of Croatia and also under the provisions of this Convention. The HDSSB fully supports and stresses that we need to strengthen legal mechanisms in the Republic of Croatia in our existing laws to improve this system in the internal justice system, to continue to strengthen the best protection and interests of children, to employ people in the central state body, to provide sufficient financial resources because every convention, every law, has good measures, good solutions. People who will work on the implementation of these laws and conventions are also important, and if we bring this into line, then the best interests of the child are not questionable. The HDSSB Club fully supports the Convention, as well as all laws that will come on the protection of the interests of children and adoptors and parents in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39587	Thank you, too. It is up to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Representative Jadranka Kosor and Croatian Civil Party and Honorable Representative Jadranka Kosor. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39588	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister with an associate. Of course we will support this bill confirming the Convention. It is good that although the debate on this law began with a light political crackdown, it is good that it did not continue because I think it is otherwise but especially when it comes to laws that first speak about the welfare of children, that we think about the welfare of children and what is in their best interest, and that our political differences and discussions about what was before, which is now, which will be in the future to leave for some other topics of those who are truly a couple of excellence political or world-era. Because I think so far through the provisions and the establishment and establishment of the adoption institute in our Family Law, we have done a good job. Finally, in the past meetings of the Croatian Parliament, we agreed on this, and we made the most of the decisions by consensus. So I warn the current provisions of the Family Law, I was a family minister, and along with many experts, I wrote the existing Family Law, so we raised the age limit for adoption which was an important and significant step but also in making many other moves not to count them now. The question remains about which, and now in the debate on the confirmation of the convention, we are actually right to open the debate, and that is how much our institutions that are in charge of implementation are here and the provisions of the Family Law on the adoption of effort, how much they take seriously their work, how much they are really encouraged, how much they are inspired, and then again we come to the child's well-being, how much they really work for the benefit of the child, and they don't work, sometimes we're faced with this job we would say with our left hand. So we are often faced just when we consider certain life fates related to adoption, with the slowness of institutions, the tromency of institutions, the lack of interest, and sometimes we still come to the prejudice that in the child's interest it is best to be with biological parents no matter how terrible they may be. Unfortunately, the fact that we sometimes have to face in real life that biological parents, that biological mother and biological father unfortunately do not love their children, that they are neglected, and then, of course, it is the state that has to stand in the place of parents and make all the necessary decisions for the child to find his future in the protection of other families. It is certainly much, much better, much better for a child to grow up in the care of the family who adopted him than to grow up and be raised in an institution. And there is no special need to waste words about it today. Of course, confirming this convention will be another important step further to be faster, to ensure that this procedure is uniform, to be truly transparent, to protect the child fully and fully. It seems particularly important to me to point out these provisions that apply to the documents, so that a child, for example, who will be adopted in another country and who will continue to live in another country under the auspices of the foster family stays in the Republic of Croatia until the end of this procedure. So, full extra protection against child abuse. It is of course important to determine the central authority as well, it is an obligation under the Convention to carry out the whole work. So once again full of support. The provisions of the Convention should not be further explained in particular. I'd just like to add in the end that everything we do at the end today is fully in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which we unfortunately often forget and ignore. And just one small intervention, Mr. President, since the records of our committees remain for history, one small mistake is simply a type of feller, obviously in the copying of the Health and Social Policy Committee, where it is said that this Convention was drawn up in The Hague in 1933 and it is not 93 years, so I suggest that it is only corrected, since it will remain in the documentation of the Croatian Assembly for History. Thank you very much, and here is full support for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39589	Thank you, too, for your... A single replica, respected representatives of Višnja Fortuna, has also been reported. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39590	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Kosor, I don't even consider this a big replica, but there's only one sentence for me, when you said that the competent centres don't work hard enough first, and when you said that they're very often interested in staying with biological parents and whatever they are. Here's what I know from my knowledge and from my experience, both work and life and co-operation over and over again with the social field of social care, I've never really seen it or heard it's possible to stay with biological parents if they couldn't stay. They are immediately separated from their biological parents, whether it's an institution or a foster family, and then all the procedures that are being conducted are actually being carried out. And as for the welfare center, I have to point out here, I'm not defending the centers really, but I have to point out that very often these procedures are very complicated, let's say for children who should be for adoption. It is very often also about the procedures of taking away parental rights, you know very well that these are long-term procedures, procedures, and in court, and that these are really procedures that are going on and all this together actually leads to a situation that very often turns out to be some kind of negligence, triangulation or slowness. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39591	Thank you, too, for your reply to the replica, the esteemed representatives of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39592	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I used to talk about the indifference of certain institutions sometimes, I didn't name any. Uninterested, the slowness of some institutions at times, that's what I said. And of course you translated it immediately given your experience at the welfare center, but I was talking about a series of institutions. As you know, you yourself have now mentioned the Institute of Parental Rights, or care. So, that's what I meant, too, but I wasn't talking about details. We're witnesses because otherwise we wouldn't be talking about so many kids who are still waiting in foster homes. About so many people who want to be parents, they're still impossible. So, yes, of course, with all due respect and my deep affection for those who do their work, completely and beyond their professional obligations, therefore work with their heart, with their flight. But unfortunately, there are also those who leave it, do it as one bureaucratic job, do not look on one side of the child, a living child, a person, a person with a name and a last name, a formed person. And on the other hand, parents who are eager, who are literally on their knees, asking for the process to be completed. So that's what I was talking about, I didn't name an institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39593	Thank you very much. It is up to the Club of Representatives in the Croatian Assembly of Independent Lists and Honored Representative Ivan Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39594	Mr. President, Ministers with Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. I am happy to take part in this debate and stress at the outset that the Independent Representatives' Club will support this debate and the conclusions of this debate. I would highlight a broader framework in which this issue of child protection and the Convention on the Protection of Children is raised. And I stress that this is about one civilization process and civilizational problems. And that we're trying to do something but it's hard to make civilization problems that are slowly but certainly come out that it's hard to stop them from our good wishes or our inadequate regulations. The problems will always remain because society is constantly changing and bringing us new problems and new challenges. And I believe that this is confirmed by the sociological research that this is about a civilization problem that has hit primarily our Western civilization and that we are now officially entering but we must be brave and ready for that civilization to have its problems. And one of the problems is interpersonal relations. And you've been touched by family and marriage. When it comes to a civilization problem, then I think it's about changes in two paradigms, one paradigm of education, access to man, human community, so on. authoritarian paradigms and new paradigms of democracy. I would call them humanistic and Christian paradigms. A well-known theologian of Switzerland says that our civilization is doomed to return to sources, not historical stages in development, but sources of human and Christian paradigm, which is the person of Jesus from Nazareth. Four things I'd like to highlight are these new paradigms that begin and at the centre of which man is like a human being to be respected in her dignity and her fundamental rights. It's a Christian paradigm, man above all. The second in this paradigm, with the emphasis of man and his fundamental rights and dignity, is the change of one culture, which is a culture of speech that requires to be evolved into a culture of conversation, free and honest conversation. We are all more or less raised in the authoritarian paradigm of listening to authority, but some already have the courage to make it public in their writings and thoughts, that it is the eighth sin, we have listed seven major sins, one writer speaks of the eighth sin, and that is the ear. The eighth sin is obedience, obedience is imposed, and we are raised of any authority on this matter. It is necessary to show courage to question false authority and that man does not accept these false authority. The eighth sin is obedience, and it was based on patriarchal medieval and new paradigms. The culture of speech needs to cross and develop a culture of free and equal dialogue both in marriage and in the family and in the wider human community. This new paradigm accounts with a variety of individuals and they don't have two of the same individuals in the world, and it needs to be accepted. Although the child is the biological product of his parents in most cases, it is not the same as his parents. Each child is special, each one is separate and each one has his own opinion, his own attitudes that simply agree or disagree, should be respected. The fourth mark of the new paradigm is the union despite our differences. Marriage togetherness, family unity and national unity, and political unity despite our different opinions. For this new paradigm, people need to be raised, it won't happen in itself, it actually happens, it's working, but we need to intervene as much as we can and direct that new paradigm, free it from the negative consequences, and promote what's in that new paradigm good. In this regard, I believe that education of educators, and education and those who have different services in the people need to be properly evaluated, valued or obeyed by certain authorities. Achieving authorities are real authorities, and authorities that impose in any way are not the right authority to rise up against them. So the education of educators in schools, whether married or in the family, should be given a lot of attention and attention when it comes to education through schools and institutions should be sensitive to the new paradigm and its plantings. They are modern, although the results show that the family is falling apart. Croatia is no exception and we will not and cannot stop the civilization processes. One comparison, a slippery storm in Split would say we can't stop with a broom. We won't be able to stop any of our laws either, but we're invited to try to prevent those negative tendencies and to improve those that are right. And this debate on child protection, about the Convention on Child Protection, is a contribution to being less victims of this paradigm that is on the extremity and the new paradigms that are emerging. I am convinced by the Croatian Parliament that by voting these proposals, the law will make one small contribution to making as few victims as possible and as many happy and satisfied people as possible. That's it, thank you for your trust and your listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39595	Thank you, too, for the discussion and the conclusion in the end. On behalf of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth, Milanka Opačić, respected. Here you go, final exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39596	Thank you, Mr. President, and thank you to all the representatives who spoke on behalf of the clubs about this convention. It is clear to me that around this Convention there is also an opportunity to say more about the problems of adoption in Croatia, so I would just like to say a few sentences. The fact is that we have problems with one part of the institutions, so part of the people who are intrinsic in adoption jobs, and we solve these problems in fact the only way we can do it is by continuing talking to people who work on these jobs to speed up the process, and here we have the first results. However, we have one part of the system that is not under our authority and with which it is very difficult to move anything forward it is the judiciary. We have judges who are very promptly solving cases because they decide to take parental care at the end. We have judges who for months or even a year, a year and a half don't call a first hearing, which means that those years or a half of a child is either sitting in foster care or in a home. The only thing we can do, and sometimes these discussions here serve to encourage a few people to realize that with their decisions they make they decide in matters of human destiny, the lives and children who instead of spending their days in homes or foster homes can go to a family and start a new life. Of course, the problem was long-term surveillance. Although we all need to know that there's a thin border where we keep our biological family, where we're trying to invest energy, where we're trying, to what extent we're trying to work with it to make it better and to make it a better environment for our children. Where is this limit when we make a decision that we have to move our children away and that we can make a decision about taking parental care? I think the Family Law, which significantly shortens the time for surveillance, is that in some of the analyses, we've found surveillance that lasts up to 12 years. So, 12 years if nothing moved in the family for the better, if it didn't become more quality that we could move surveillance and that they could take care of the children on their own then and those 12 years actually lost the child's life. If after that we single out a child when he's already in puberty, when the more serious problems unfortunately arise, the children then end up in a navel facility, so the children with behavioral disorders, and then the story for them is lost. The majority of us then go through life either towards Leprechaun or other criminal institutions, which means that we are like a system if we do not respond in a timely manner in a way we have participated in losing these children and pushing them into a completely different world. So, family supervision will be significantly shortened, there will be very clear proposition when it needs to be stopped, to what extent it can be used, and after that people in the centre need to do, and hopefully it will help us to react much, much faster in situations where the family is really estimated to be no better quality and that in any kind of work with that family, we cannot achieve a better environment for children. Then I think they'll have to choose the child's future. Also in the family will be made these sort of let's say the education of people who go into adoption. No small number of times we happen to end up bad, end up or return the children to the institution, end the adoption because the adoptors weren't prepared for what was waiting for them. It's not gonna go to the store, buy a mixer, so if I don't like it, I'm gonna advertise it or return it or I'm just not gonna use it. So these are children, children who most often come traumatized by their parent families, come with some previous story. There's very few babies going into adoption, so they don't have any kind of trauma. So I think that this previous procedure that will help adoptors will also be something that will help children to have a stable family. And I must finally express my regret that we in Croatia have at this time 60 children who have complete legal conditions for adoption, but we have no adoptor. We do not have because or because of children from many families, so people find it very difficult to adopt five or six children at once. On the other hand, children with certain health problems are also involved. If adopted, they will be adopted mainly in some of the EU countries, with the wave of our citizens living there, working and who obviously have better conditions to cope with all the difficulties of such children. So at this point, 60 children in our homes or foster families have all the conditions for adoption, but unfortunately there are no foster parents who would like to adopt those children and that is one sad story in our system. And I don't know, I have to admit how to handle it. You can't impose a few things on anyone. Here, once again, they can only appeal, invite people to think again about whether they can provide homes and children with certain difficulties or perhaps children who come from families that are numerous. I know it's not easy, but here's maybe this opportunity here is to take advantage of to invite people to think again when they're looking for a child to adopt. Thank you very much again for your participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39597	Thank you, too. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We move to a statement, a vote, a decision on the points of the agenda. Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in relation to interstate adoption, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 357. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I would like to ask the motionary's representative, Deputy Prime Minister Milanko Opačić, to declare the amendment. Amendment No. 1st Honored Vice President. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39599	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39600	Thank you very much. This becomes an integral part of the final draft law. Please make a statement. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 98 votes for the adoption of the Law attesting the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation with regard to interstate adoption in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted. We are going to discuss - Proposal for a national fire protection strategy for the period from 2013 to 2022, the Proposer of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the second reading of the law apply to the adoption of the strategy, Articles 155 to 157 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. Deputy Minister of the Interior, Reverend Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39602	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and parliamentary representatives. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on fires, the protection against the fires of the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, brings the National Fire Protection Strategy for a period of 10 years. A working group headed by the Ministry of Interior and the State Department for Protection and Rescue as holders and representatives of other competent authorities and professional associations and associations has been formed for the development of the National Strategy. Representatives of all ministries, Croatian Fire Department, National Committee for the Prevention and Fire Prevention, Croatian Fire Protection Association, Association of professional firefighters of Croatia, Association of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, Croatian Community of County and Association of Cities. The relevant strategy shall contain an analysis of the existing state of fire protection, the legal framework, international obligations, main objectives and priorities, implementing measures and operators of activities, and statistical indicators of fire for the period 2002 to 2011. The first part of the National Strategy shows the current state of play. An analysis of the existing state of fire protection has been carried out in the Republic of Croatia. Which is fire, what consequences it causes. The entry into force of new attributions to protect against fires related to compliance with EU legislation. The introduction of new systems of shut-down and so on. This day is a review of statistics for the past decade where large damages and a large number of fires of open space are to be collected especially in the coast. The main division of fire protection consisting of preventive operations, inspections against the Ministry of Interior's fires, state administrations for the protection and rescue and operations carried by the fire department, the holders of jobs are the State Department for Protection and Rescue with the support of the Ministry of Defence, Air Force, the Croatian Fire Department, local self-pourage units, cities and municipalities with professional and voluntary fire departments, as well as legal persons, fire departments in the economy. In the chapter of the legal framework, clarifications of the legislation are also made fundamentally, consisting of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and other regulations which directly and indirectly regulate the area of fire protection. Significant documents are also a programme of activities in the implementation of specific measures to protect against fires of interest for the Republic of Croatia, which each year brings the Government and the plan for interventions in large open spaces fires. The main objectives and priorities are highlighted in the strategy: reduce the number of fires, reduce the number of victims, reduce the material damage caused by the indirect and direct action of the fire and improve the system by fire. This further text of the National Strategy explains how the above objectives will be achieved and in the preventive part of the adoption of the necessary legislation, the provision of financial resources, the training of expert staff to prevent fire protection and on fire protection. Establish a single service headed by a state body in charge of the fire department. Now the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, through methodology, determination of number and type of firefighters, maintenance and procurement of material technical resources, implementation, training and education of human potential. The following chapters also define other measures and activities to be carried out in the protection against fires, economic buildings, residential and business buildings, forests and protected parts of nature and open space. In order to make it more effective to put an end to the fires of large open spaces especially in the coast, it should be pointed out that it is also proposed to set up a regional forest fires centre for Southeast European countries based in Divulje. The primary operators of activities for the implementation of the National Strategy are the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the State Administration for Protection and Rescue with the participation of other participants who will clearly and unequivocally define all objectives, deadlines and bodies to participate in the implementation of each of the individual tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39603	Thank you, too. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The debate starts with Clubs of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community in the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39604	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the National Strategy for Protection against Fires that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will not support. Namely, the Strategy can be defined as a harmonised use of all available means of power... in this case, the State in terms of the total society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In carrying out its own interests, the strategy must come from a vision that gives a long-term assessment of the desired situation and must clearly define its own interests. It must take into account all factors which act against the achievement of their own interests and describe the way towards success taking into account actions and counteractions. The strategy of fire protection is, by our deep conviction, a document that is of priority for every country that thinks about its own safety and thus the future. Therefore, it must be placed broad enough for any area of protection and rescue partly dependent on national security to be left out. We believe that the work on this Strategy should include experts in the wider area, not just a few officials of the MUP and the State Rescue Authority. While, as the Croatian Fire Department sent us, it was not at all a part of this strategy. Proposal for a National Fire Protection Strategy for the period from 2013 to 2022 as the name itself says should give us an analysis of the state of protection against fire and fire in the Republic of Croatia. He should give us a vision and show us a long-term projection of the desired situation and must clearly define his own interests, and this document certainly is not. This document was created by collecting materials from several organizations and unfortunately unrelated to one meaningful whole. Some parts, by the way, are killing each other. In a description of the existing state of fire protection, except as the creator teaches us what fire is and what materials may be affected, he managed to give a low-level analysis of the current state and statistics on fire intensity and number of fires in the last decade. The Directives of the European Union which have been implemented and novels in the regulations that have been adopted are mentioned, but no one analyzes the real state of the system, organisation, financing, relations between bodies and organisations, relations between voluntary and professional firepower, which can be called very confusing in short lines at the moment. Just to mention, no programme of activities has yet been adopted in the implementation of specific fire protection measures against the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and due to the dispute and resistance of certain factors in the system, and the season is at the door and no preparation has been made, no funds, equipment has been obtained, etc. For a clearer picture, I'll draw you a few lines to describe the fire system. The organisation of a fire protection system in the Republic of Croatia is in a phase of continuous formation and adaptation. The Croatian Fire Department is headed by the president of HVZ as a roof fire organisation that unites all fire-fighting organisations and troops in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, county professional public fire departments and voluntary fire companies are commanded by fire commanders who are responsible for all the fires in their counties as such. On the other hand, the main holder of fire protection in the Republic of Croatia is the State Administration for Protection and Rescue. Within the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, there is a fire department, along with its fire-fighting centre run by the chief, the chief fire commander. The main tasks of the sector are monitoring the state of organisation and operational preparedness of fire and taking measures and actions to improve the structure and efficiency of the fire department. The sector is the holder of the preparation of fire participants for more complex events and manages and coordinates activities in more complex fire interventions. The Chief Fire Commander has a coastal assistant who runs state intervention units. During the fire season the centre is dislocated from the headquarters in Zagreb to the space of the Centre for Coordination, Management and Fire Management on the coast... The State Administration for Protection and Rescue is an organisation that has the role of a roof organisation of protection and rescue systems. The task of the state administration is to manage the system of protection and rescue, integration of all management strategies related to the operation of the entire system of protection and rescue of people and goods. The State Administration for Protection and Rescue as the main and responsible holder of all fire protection activities in the Republic of Croatia has no insight into the situation on the ground, no authority over the county fire commanders or the fire department. As such, it is only for the transfer of information obtained from the on-call staff of the fire department to an operational officer on the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia who, upon receipt, assumes the same responsibility for the engagement of a particular type and number of air forces in the firefield. The county fire commander is the main and responsible factor in protecting against fires in a particular county in the Republic of Croatia. It shall not be subject to the Fire Department of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue or to the Chief Fire Commander or his assistant, the Assistant Chief Fire Commander for the Coast of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue. The County fire commander commands voluntary and professional fire departments of the Croatian Fire Department. The units are not sufficiently trained and trained to make and assess and decide to engage the type and number of aircraft in the fire. Very often fire departments transmit incorrect and incomplete information in the request to engage air forces, resulting in unnecessary use of resources both materially and financially. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia provide support in shutting down the dry fires by ensuring the aircraft component made up of Croatian Air Force troops. Marine forces from the Croatian Navy system and land forces from the Croatian Land Army shall also be engaged as necessary. The system works in a way that every year armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, from 15 May to 31 June, with certain derogations, form fire-fighting forces in which all three branches of the Armed Forces are joined at the head of the fire-fighting forces... the command, located in the military Prince Trpimir in the Divuljes to whom he commands, organises, train and engage all forces to help protect against fire. The main role of such forces is the coordination of the firepower of the Croatian Armed Forces and the civil organisation of the State Protection and Rescue Authority. ... decisions to engage the air force to extinguish the fire from the air are currently based on data on the types and characteristics of the fuel, but the fire commander on the ground makes his decision based on his own experiences of free assessment. However, his own experience is a very unreliable factor. For example, there are frequent situations in which a fire commander, on the basis of the same instruction, is required to simultaneously engage a number of aircraft on fire to assess the size of the fire intensity and withdraw the request for air support. Meanwhile, the planes have already flown towards the firefield. They shall interrupt their duties and return to their home aircraft bases and shall have significant material resources that are needlessly spent, the justification for the existence of so many links in the chain of command being questionable as they do not have the possibility of corrective action on the requested requests of the service provider and do not take any responsibility. When we look at this strategy, the legal framework within the legal framework again tells what a certain inspector does and does not talk about the non-compliance of normative acts that are most important to the system, such as the Law on Protection and Rescue, the Law on Fire Protection, the Law on the Protection of Fire, the Law on flammable liquids and gases, the Law on Explosive Substances, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Law on the Environment, the Law on Forests, the Law on Local and Area (regional) of Self-Government, and we have a very important document in the fire system is an intervention plan for large fires of open space in the territory of the Republic of Croatia which is inconductive and not prepared new. The very listing of documents shows their quantitative what he's only saying, the quantity that only speaks of the overload of the system normative. And when we analyze them, we see that they're often in conflict with each other because they're not consistent. The same burdens the system to a great extent and often puts it in a situation, that if it wants to react it must do so in an outside legal zone. I am deeply interested in the fact that this government did not propose to the Parliament to amend the Law on Protection and Rescue and the Fire Department that was prepared a year and a half ago and were ready for adoption. Obviously, this is about not having a vision and a complete lack of work in the bodies responsible for the fire protection and rescue system. When we look at international obligations, there are very short descriptions, although activities are broader and very important, that I am not talking about the international assistance the system provides and that protocols should be drawn up that would certainly improve this and solve the problems that are created when aid is provided to the canadians in the Armed Forces system. The main objectives and priorities, the creator of the act says that the main objectives of the development of the fire protection system and priorities through preventive and operational action, reduce the number of fires created, reduce the number of victims, reduce the material damage caused by the indirect and direct action of the fire, improve the fire system, and redefine the status of firefighters, which is true but incomplete. The system should also be regulated and fully integrated into the protection and rescue system, based on the analysis of threats and necessary forces, and the financing system arranged. As the strategy has not defined guidelines to achieve the objectives set, we propose to bring to the state level a vision of the development of fire and fire protection in the protection and rescue system and under the umbrella of the safety system of the Republic of Croatia. Scientificly and independently analyse the state and needs, develop methodologies for determining the number of firefighters, fire departments and quantities of fire equipment. To complete the harmonisation of legal regulation, to establish all factors, to administratively standardise part of the command and operational supervisory and support in a single system in a single organisation to establish a single fire department on the principle with state bodies in charge of protecting and saving with a clear line of command and the firm integration of operational forces into a single system. Harmonise the action of human and material-technical resources in the protection of fires with respect to the principle of subsidiarity and integrity of all resources, ensure the financing of fire protection from the funds of units of local and regional self-government, the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, legal persons with public authority, economic legal persons obliged to protect against fires from insurance premiums of insurance houses from compensation for the use of the common useful function of forests through programming documents for the period 2014 to 2020 using EU funds and structural instruments, the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and Cohesion Funds, and grants and other sources. Train and reduce professional staff and the population, maintain and obtain the necessary material and technical means and equipment for preventive and operational action, achieve stronger cooperation between all state authorities and institutions. Implementing measures and carriers when I am talking about them in order to achieve the strategic objectives, it is also necessary to have professional, organisational and professional persons who will carry out the same. If it is to judge under Chapter 5 of the proposed strategy, that expertise is at a low level and there is no recognised organisation to do so. This kind of organization of citizens with three heads that bite themselves can't do any good. It is evident that the MAP, the State Protection and Rescue Authority, the Croatian Fire Department, are intertwined, and in such a relationship there should be a forgotten MORH because it gives a systematic too strong aviation force. In order to avoid dualism, we propose that the State Protection and Rescue Authority, whose legal role it is to accept its obligations and in cooperation with professional people and to prepare a strategy that would resolve all the issues we have considered, although we must question the correctness of this proposal because I have a feeling that the State Administration for Protection and Rescue This management isn't working. [[Invader President: Bring the end.]] It is evident that they have not been present or have not been able to cope with any of the major accidents that have taken place since the new authorities took the lead in security and rescue such as the big ones. Just please here's another minute. [[/Intruder Stazic: Thank you very much. Time's up.]] Great snow this year and last year, fires of open space where there were material damage to the forests and objects of human losses, floods, where they fought the water in local self-government and themselves... [[Intruder Stazic: Come on, finish up.]] etc. From not passing the new Protection and Rescue Act, which was prepared a year and a half ago. There's no Civil Protection Act, so there's a power that's crucial. Here, thank you very much. [[Intruder Stazic: That would be it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39605	We're moving on to replicas now. First, a respected colleague, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39606	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Djakic, I didn't mean to replicate to you because I know that the chairman will notice that here's a replicated colleague from the club, and I wanted Mr. Deputy Minister, but he was so quick that I didn't make it. And I know that in the fire department there should be speed, it's true, but it has to be both of course and capacity, expertise. But I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, [[/Intruding Stazic: A colleague named Milinkovic has been contacted by you for the replica of his colleague Djakic, you can't, you can't.]] Of course, the fundamental goal is to create, here's what I was going to say, to establish a unique, effective and effective system. Well, we're in trouble here. And indeed this efficiency and efficiency there is questionable. Because if we're just following what you've been saying that overlaps with jurisdiction, the State Protection and Rescue Authority, the MUP, and the role of the fire department has been ignored and the relationship between voluntary and professional fire departments has not been defined. And there's the biggest problem. And in that part of the rural area, we feel really one big problem. For years, we've made efforts to create effective voluntary fire, supply of equipment, everything. And we're 20, I'm e.g. I come from the middle which is 27 km away from the professional fire department. And now, by the time this guy gets here and if this thing starts to overlap who's in charge, it's gonna burn half the village. You understand? Here, that's the way it is. So here we have reason to suspect the effectiveness and effectiveness and adverse consequences, and therefore I ask Mr. Deputy that you have that in mind because I think that voluntary fire has been neglected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39607	The deputy minister corresponds to this replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39608	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here is a colleague, that much is not defined in this strategy, and particularly no defined financial resources, obligations of local self-government and regional self-government, as well as the Croatian Fire Department as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the budget. They're not even planned at all, so don't come to God's great catastrophes we've seen what's going on, confusion, non-intervention, not coming to the field. I think there are a lot of things that should be done in this strategy, and first of all we should regulate certain things by law and then bring a strategy. I know it was before and it was a failure too, but now that it's being brought then it has to be consistent with all the normative acts that make up, and that's primarily the budget, and then the budget comes up with everything else. And it wasn't done, so I don't think any of this strategy will be useful.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39609	Second replica, Vice President of the House, the esteemed Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39610	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, since I'm from the same club, I'm not sure I fully agree with him that the law should be passed first, and then the strategy. I'm always putting that strategy first, and then the law because the law is actually an instrument to implement the strategy. However, what I do not think is good, and what was mentioned by the distinguished representative, though, is the fact that none of the proposals she made or the significant proposals made by the Croatian Fire Department found any place in the National Protection Strategy against the fires of the Republic of Croatia. Since the strategy is an important document and it in some way determines that over the next 10 years, the development of fire and fire protection will be pursued, I think, in fact, not good because the Croatian Fire Department is certainly one important body whose objections should have been adopted. These remarks were primarily made in three directions. One was of course that the law should establish the Croatian Fire Department as a competent fire department. Another important issue that has been raised by the Croatian Fire Community is the question of financing firefighting in municipalities and cities from the state budget and proposing that the existing model be upgraded, i.e. that the state provides all units of local self-government with minimum standards for carrying out fire work, not only for those who have established a public fire force. Finally, that certain fire protection models were proposed during the fire-fighting summer season, which was carried out naturally on the basis of the programme of activities in implementing specific fire protection measures against fires of interest to the Republic of Croatia, and following which the proposals have room and space for improvement and rationalisation. Unfortunately, these proposals were not accepted. I don't think that's good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39611	And the third replica, dear colleague Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39612	I wouldn't be replicating Deputy Minister, I'd be replicating my colleague Djakic. It is my replica that is similar to Mr. Vice President Reiner's replica that the basic document is the Fire Protection Strategy, and only after that, the Fire Department Act. I wouldn't be talking here about whether the strategy has given the right solutions, but surely it is very important and should bring the strategy to the benefit of the Republic of Croatia to the reduction of both the number of fires and the number of victims and the reduction of material damage. I also support that the strategy is the first document to be adopted, but it should be adopted and will be in the function and development of fire and the protection of goods and property of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39613	Thank you. Now I invite you fellow Mandic here for a pay phone to start presenting the position of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39614	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a national fire protection strategy for the period from 2013 to 2022 I would say one of the very important strategic documents on security and property protection in the Republic of Croatia. We live in a time when weather or weather disasters are almost extreme from year to year and we expect in this time that is before us these 10 years that these interventions and these events will be more and more. And that is why we find it very important that the national fire protection strategies for this period be a thorough, valid document at the service of all those in the fire protection system. I would say here that the national strategy was being followed by the 2010 Fire Protection Act, and that the most significant changes have taken place here in relation to the harmonisation of the Republic of Croatia's rules with EU directives in the area of construction. Here we believe that what the strategy suggests is very good, that the fire protection inspection is present in the building means from the beginning of obtaining a local authorisation to obtaining a useful permit. It is also important here to establish specific conditions of fire protection before the start of construction. It is important to note here that in this way the safety of users of these facilities is improved, the safety of the environment itself, and I think that part is good. What's the worst option of saving construction that's happening at the expense of fire safety. Fires are those that can always come and that is why it is important for inspection services to carry out maximum safety legislation on both start and end. This strategy is also given special attention to the introduction of new technologies to reporting systems and decommissioning itself in buildings and premises of larger economic operators. What is most important, and this strategy says a lot about this is that education and continued training of employees, citizens with fire protection measures and procedures in the event of fires are important. It is also important here that all teachers, primary and secondary school teachers as part of their teaching to educate on this very important segment of life of each of us, so that every person knows at all times the best way to protect against fire and why education is important is the greatest number of fires coming by human factor. What you can often say in the fire department, given that I'm a fireman too, there's one saying that "there's more worth one fire stopped than a thousand extinguished." It's good to think about this saying because she talks more than anything else. It is also important here that the strategy discusses the cooperation of ministries that have direct contacts with the causes and with fire protection, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Construction, the spatial arrangements, the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU funds. A very important segment in prevention is also the Croatian Hydrometeorological Institute on the notification of possible changes in time and the effects of time on the occurrence of fire. If we look at the analysis provided by the MUP in support of the strategy, we can see that in 2003, 2007, the year of the open-air fire was very indicative in view of extreme temperatures and high droughts. So with all of our prevention proposed by this strategy, most of it depends on weather opportunities. It is important here to note that all we have said so far is that it also requires a new Fire Department Act that must be directly incorporated into this strategy. The main objectives of this strategy are certainly to reduce the number of fires, reduce the number of victims, reduce the material damage and improve the fire system. What I have significant objections to in this strategy is that the Croatian Fire Department, which is a national institution in this strategy, is not sufficiently used and insufficiently, is taken into account its value. I will only say that the Croatian Fire Department has celebrated 140 years of its continued action in the work to protect against fire, to protect people and property. About the fact that the Croatian Fire Department has changed I think about 7 social arrangements and that it has always had the possibility of independence. I mean that since 1874, 82 years Croatian Fire Department has been working and it has always been in this same service. Why am I saying that the Croatian Fire Community is very important? Because it gathers and articulates the interests of both voluntary and professional fire departments. Because we are all proud of the firefighters and their numbers at a time when they are the elemental disasters, when tens of thousands of firefighters are actively involved, when certain public services are not so active that they are paid and here in the Croatian Fire Department there are over 60,000 volunteers. With this strategy, all these volunteers are placed in one position so they don't have their own vertical to the top. Based on the example of some neighbouring countries, there are different models, according to the example of some neighbouring countries, Slovenia, Austria, is said to be the top institution of the fire community. Here, unfortunately when we go in the hierarchy towards the top of that... We are coming to have more responsible systems to take credit for a large system of fire. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In my opinion, but also in my club, we believe that the Croatian Fire Department must be seen in full its size. Let's not look at firemen just when it's necessary. If we keep going on about the responsibility for the great tragedy that took place in the Kornati, did anyone answer from that system to up, it ended up back in the fire department. I express my compassion for all those young people who have lost their lives. But did the system fit up? Unfortunately, he ended up somewhere in the middle. I think these are all the things that should be said about the main holder in the fire department being the Croatian Fire Department because it is by example to the countries that are in the neighborhood. It is Slovenia, Austria, unfortunately we have others, or fortunately there are other models that give more variants to the eastern model, that is the question of the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland. And I think it would be a good idea to think this through in a strategy anyway. What I'd like to say is that it's certainly both a model and a way of financing. The state here through intervention funds is unfair to those systems that operate without public fire departments. The state only appears as an intervention, with interventions where public fire departments are. I'm going to talk about the organisation of a fire department in Djakova where we have 30,000 inhabitants, nine voluntary fire departments, and in the central fire department, we have a voluntary fire company with a professional core. And that's the most optimal way and model of funding. We have four professionals, this is the rest, all volunteers. We have over 120 operatives. We've got it for the helicopter... 36 trained young firefighters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm saying, I think in the strategy, we should talk about it and put a strategy that way. What I would certainly point out for the end, that it is necessary in this strategy to make a part relating to particularly vulnerable areas. It's a normal coast and here I'm going to mention two nature parks, Kopački rit and Vransko lake. Almost always in the same time, meaning in the spring, with spring days someone deliberately lights the reeds and there are great fires and great damages to environmental and nature protection. So in these areas, special evaluations and arrangements should be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39615	For the rest of my time, I'm predicting a club debate. On behalf of the HNS, counterpart Petar Baranovic will use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39616	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, since I'm from Dalmatia, that it never burns, my colleague generously left me four minutes and I'll try to be brief. When you come from Dalmatia and go to talk about fire protection then you have a special task, especially when you come on behalf of the people of Sibenik-Knin County who have paid the price of the mess that has been the government in fire protection for decades on our premises for the most expensive and difficult price. By reading this Strategy, I have noticed some data and I have entered some data that actually speak about what a realistic approach is to shut down and prepare fires in Dalmatia. So you see, let's say the figures that tell you how many techniques, vehicles in Croatia to the counties are allocated and what is the ratio of the number of vehicles to the population, for example, which is the ratio of the number of firefighters to the number of inhabitants. What is the ratio of the number of vehicles to the surface and to the square kilometers in certain counties and you realize that they are actually the weakest equipped, the weakest equipped compared to the real effort of fire stations, the facility in Dalmatia. When you spend with those people night and day on an open-air fire, one of the few that rages within a radius of 20 or 30 km at that time, when you enter with the county fire commander into that operation as a man who has a duty to be with them, then you realize that by dropping night canaders go on the runway and that everything stays on man and ground-based technique. That everything depends on the network of fire roads, on the prevention carried out in private and state forests, and you realize that units of local self-government according to the existing funding model cannot respond to the tasks assigned to them. That a kilometer of fire road in Dalmatia costs several times more than a kilometer of fire road in the continent because you have to drill it through the debris, using heavy machinery, it's hard to maintain it. Understand that during the season when angry by several fires, I stress in a 20km radius that a professional fire unit is at the limit of exhaustion that people simply cannot function normally and rationally then mistakes occur. By following operations, you realize that neither vertical nor chain of command is most happily formed. Understand that they lack EC pipes, those unfortunate, most elemental items of equipment because they're wasting on so much load, shooting and destroying much more intensely than on some other parts of our beautiful. This strategy must answer the question that undeveloped municipalities that have a huge area in the woods, for example the Gračac municipality in Lica, the largest in Croatia. The budget is ridiculous, tragic, not funny, but tragic. A municipality that cannot even cover its elemental functions without aid from the state budget will respond to the tasks given to it as a unit of local self-government to prevent and prepare and fire protection. There's no way, there isn't. As some Dalmatian municipalities whose budgets are also very low-level will respond to the needs of equipment to help develop voluntary fire companies, all gentlemen need funds, not just goodwill. How certain Dalmatian municipalities will participate and encourage the construction of a network of fire roads without which an effective fire of an open type cannot be quenched in Dalmatia. This strategy is needed, it should have integrated changes and must give clear answers to the questions how. She taxed out imperatives and goals and they're well-assembled, classified. However, I personally do not see any real, concrete answers to how and how to form a fire department to respond to all needs in view of the real distribution of fires, to the severity of the damage, and even to the real danger of human lives not only of the population but also of the firefighters I am stressing in Dalmatia in so far unsettled conditions carry out one of the most difficult activities and unfortunately lose their heads. So I thank Mr. Vice President for giving me another 10 seconds if possible. I therefore recommend that more detailed solutions be installed in this strategy, more detailed guidelines and how to respond to these anomalies that are present in the fire system. [[Intruder Stazic: Go ahead, just lock it up.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39617	We've registered three replicas. First, a respected colleague, Miroslav Tudjman, at the presentation of counterpart Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39618	Thank you very much. A colleague of Mandic, and a colleague of Baranovic's, began a positive assessment of this strategy, and beyond that, everything was missing in this strategy. It seems to me that it's not a dispute, and we all agree that we should have a fire protection strategy. However, I would say that this is one of the weakest documents and the worst documents that came before this House simply because there are no indicators of neither the implementation plan nor the holders nor the deadlines and objectives to be achieved in order to achieve the desired objectives. Why this strategy carries the year 2022, not 2025 or 2018, this data simply cannot be concluded and cannot be seen. On the other hand, the key in the entire organisation of the system, from the system of command, is mentioned here by the ministries, but the Ministry of Defence has been left out, which allocates large funds from its budget for this fire protection, and these relations are simply not resolved. However, we could sharpen the situation so as to say that our ministry is not the Ministry of Defence but the Ministry of Defence, according to what has been reduced since the state administration is not in line with or civil protection with the Ministry of Defence, which is the case in most countries. Thus, structural problems have not simply been solved. There's talk of fire school, fire departments. Why only a fire school, and why not everything if we're talking about a whole system of protection, why not a united one-stop-shop. Or it is proposed that the Regional Centre for Forest Fires for the SEE States, in our terminology JI Europe is ex Yugoslavia, and why not Slovenia, Italy, Austria, means to us neighbouring countries with which we have the same problems. Therefore, I think it is necessary to support that conclusion proposed by the Committee for Internal Policy and National Security to commit the government to drawing up a Fire Protection Strategy with a plan for implementation by 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39619	Here's why we're not likely to hear in response to my colleague, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39620	Thank you very much. Well, of course, in my part of being in front of the club, I was talking about those parts that we think are positive and they're newspapers and they're supposed to be accepted. We were also constructively critical of what we think is wrong. That is why we asked from our presentations and colleagues Baranovic and mine for greater cooperation among all participants active in the protection against fire, and at no point did we also question the State Administration for Protection and Rescue which is to be found by law as the competent authority for crisis situations that outweigh, in fact when major elements or disasters or disasters are or when some things where someone from that system cannot act alone. The most important thing here is that in this fire protection strategy, we must make the most of those who are in the regular fire protection system, and we have made that clear, and I believe that the proposer of this strategy will certainly consider it to be operational and to benefit from the protection and rescue of fires.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39621	Second replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39622	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Mandic, I agree with you that this document is extremely important with the aim of establishing a unique functional system, but it is certainly necessary to say that if it is badly set that then the implementation will be nothing, and the consequences will be catastrophic. Secondly, I'm glad you noticed that there is not enough emphasis on the role of the community of fire if I've noticed correctly. If not, correct me. But I want to say that so far the system has been mainly in the continental part, in the county from which I come, which has been declared the most fire-fighting county in the Republic of Croatia of Koprivnica-križevska. But, of course, all local self-government units have made efforts to get equipment. But it's also important to the enthusiasm of these people, the tradition of voluntary fire is extremely great. Their activities, I'm extremely proud of them. Let's say from the celebration of St. Florian's protectors of firefighters marked, celebrated, and in that part showed the union. But in this professional section, engagement and preventive action and all that is expensive. Now, in these circumstances, we warn that voluntary fire is not sufficiently highlighted and, of course, at that financial moment that many local self-government units have serious difficulties, that their resources have been taken away. And in that sense, I appeal to you, that you are as a member of the ruling coalition to fight, that the larger funds in that position of fire protection are secured. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39623	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39624	Thank you very much, fellow Milinkovic. So here when we talk about voluntary firefighters that time we have to say that we have two parts of the Republic of Croatia. In this north, northwestern part of the Republic of Croatia, where there is a tradition on fire of some 100 and a hundred and forty years, this voluntary approach was highlighted. That means, it's kind of culturally we inherited and we can never watch firemen just through fire protection. They are very important in life, the social life of every environment, especially in rural areas. What is most important is that this strategy must be used by all of them, all firefighters who participate in the prevention and elimination of fires and that we must not be unjust and that we share firefighters are one professional, one voluntary. So all firefighters need to have minimum equipment for interventions that those who aren't minimally equipped that they can't go to interventions. Here we also come to the same great problem as the issue of the unevenly developed Republic of Croatia in terms of possibilities and funding of the unit of local self-government. In the northern part of the Republic of Croatia there are fewer units of local self-government whose financial capacities are much smaller than in other parts of the Republic of Croatia and for these reasons there is insufficient equipment. But again, if we report to the first one that all firefighters must have approximately the same conditions for interventions. I think we agree on all of this, and what I said in the presentation in front of the club that the Croatian Fire Department should be placed in the right position according to its values, according to its merits in the work and preservation of the fire department and essentially in the education of numerous firefighters in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39625	The third line is respected counterpart Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39626	Dear counterpart Mandic mentioned one of the biggest tragedies in Croatia. It's the death of firemen in the Kornati. First of all, when it comes to this strategy, it is certainly a strategy on one of the most noble activities in general not only in Croatia, generally the most noble activity. However, the tragedy in the Kornati has shown a bad organisation in the chain of command. Firefighters are certainly what my colleague Mandic said are not only people who prevent fires or people who put out fires, people who deal like I said with noble activity. They are also very prominent activists in the Republic of Croatia. However, what happened in the Kornati has shown that the fire community and everything in the system does not work the way it should. Just remember that the then head of the State Department for Protection and Rescue, Djuro Poldreac, reacted without responsibility, although there was a great tragedy, even though he was to resign the same night, although he was to be replaced to this day about this tragedy, after that tragedy, the grassroots, the society of those who were investigating this tragedy, the courts of the people who died, caused great, great damage to their families, and there proved to be a society that doesn't deserve all the epithets that we know ourselves here in the Assembly to whale.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39627	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39628	Thank you very much. Here's what I'd like to tell my colleague that to the most extent possible, I agree with everything he's said in his replica. But what I would like to say to end is that there should be more coordination in the function of all those available fire systems for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and safer protection from fire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39629	The esteemed Boro Grubisic is replicating Petra Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39630	Thank you very much. You spoke about the difference between, therefore, this Mediterranean, coastal part, the Adriatic part of our country and the continental part, and you argued that there are important differences, how heavy machines are needed, etc. However, I must say that, so the replica refers to that part, that when you look at the table on page 7, then you see the number of voluntary firefighters and DVDs per unit of local self-government, so it says that the average number of volunteer firefighters in the Republic of Croatia is one thousand inhabitants of 12.69. But when you look at it, let me say the counties of the sea then you see that in Dubrovnik-Neretvanska 6,15, in Licko-Senjska 4,77, in Zadar 3,38, in Split-Dalmatia 3,40. But if you're looking at the number of professional firefighters, so public fire departments, then it's a complete inversion. So it's about the public fire department and the number of people in the public fire department, so professionals are much higher exactly in the marine districts than voluntary fire companies. And secondly, I would like to say that the funds of the insurance premium for the general services of forests in the 90 per cent amount in the Republic of Croatia go exclusively to the public fire departments and the fire department in the coast, so in the Mediterranean part, only 10% in the continental part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39631	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues allow me to now welcome members of the Military and Diplomatic Assembly accredited to the Republic of Croatia who are visiting the Defence Committee. . Now, before we continue the debate, counterparts Nedzad Hodzic from the national minority club asked for a word, so I'm giving it to him. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39632	Mr. Vice President, since today's colleague Shucker in this House reminded us of a brutal robbery committed by the Ministry of Finance in 2006 and 2007 over one company, I've asked under the pressure of the employees to explain it to the facts and arguments because there may be very radical moves if some things do not happen after today's move.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39633	The HDZ Club? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39634	Honestly speaking, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I don't understand what business provisions you gave Mr. Hodzic? And the other thing, look at the phonogram, I, Mr. Hodzic, didn't mention in any word what you said. The fact that you're misusing this constituency for your private interests Just please nice, you allowed, wait. [[Intruder Stazić: colleague.]] Wait a minute. [[/Intruder Stazic: Are you looking for a break on behalf of the club? You can ask for that.]] Was he looking for a break on behalf of the club? It is. And I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39635	Well, thank you very much. So, I'm setting a break. Please allow us to hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Each club may, at any time, request a break in accordance with Article 223a, with an explanation. We heard the request, we heard the argument. You also asked for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club and I am now setting a break and we will continue at 12.25. Thank you. We will now continue the debate on the National Fire Protection Strategy proposal for the period from 2013 to 2022. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Representatives' Club, the party of work, will speak to the respected Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39637	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, and your associate. So, a taste of all the debates we've discussed here normally could come to mind, excuse me, you might realize that the National Strategy is needed. And I'm very glad that the members of the ruling Kukuriku coalition also supported the other part, which is that this material should go to work, that this is not a material to be adopted in this form. There are serious objections to it and by members of the CNS who have spoken, normally and from representatives from other opposition parties. The national strategy is a document that is needed in any case. It's the highest document, it's something that should be the basis of everything. However, what to say about the national document quoting the wikipedia definitions and ignoring the professional definitions. So in this strategy you can't just not mention it, but it's simple, it'll probably give everybody enough proof of how and how one of these documents was done that would have to be one of the most important documents. In this strategy, the fire is defined as a surgical movement of fire on some surface. It's a definition that's been prescribed from Wikipedia. The expert definition of the fire is: the fire is every uncontrollable burning in the area that causes material damage and endangers the life and health of humans and animals. Then it is found here that the fire belongs to natural disasters. What about the fires of objects, plants, vehicles, planes, ships, etc. Turns out those fires don't get into this category. It is further stated that a certain temperature, pressure, and oxygen are needed to create a fire. It was probably meant to burn because this is the definition of burning, not fire. Fire is every uncontrollable burn. Then there's something else that's defined here as, say, open space fires. It doesn't burn space. It burns plants in the open space. So the mass of these things is really inappropriate to such a serious document, and I think that this document should be withdrawn from the procedure, given for further work, and if nothing else is included, not if nothing but primarily include the community of fire that is certain if nothing else at least this kind of failure would not allow itself. According to information from fire departments, only fires that are bigger and for which police officers have written the report are recorded. If the firemen were alone that fire is not recorded anywhere. That's how you do it, for example. Weed fires, fires in garbage cans, fires with small damage are nowhere to be reported, and firemen's records aren't official. So then we have a paradox that about the same event, or about the fires, we have three different records. One water of the MUP, one waters of the fire community and the third waters of Croatia's forests, though Croatian forests are limited only to state land. The plans to protect against fires for cities, municipalities and counties are the obligations of units of local self-government. The fact is that neither this government nor the previous governments have done anything against those who have failed to do so and watch this 1993 thing now. The report on the implementation of fire protection measures for 2011 states that two counties, Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska and Split-Dalmatia have not implemented a legal obligation since 1993, and the 2012 report says that the fire protection plan does not yet have Bjelovar-Bilogorska and Zagreb County and the cities of Supetar, Skradin and Jastrebarsko. According to the 2011 MUP report, there are no eight municipalities and 12 municipalities for 2012. The number of unfulfilled obligations is increasing rather than reducing because there are no consequences for those who do not carry out their obligations. The two reports were signed by Minister Ostojic, therefore this strategy is also signed by the same ministry, thus the data are in contradiction. This information, which was said by the representatives of clubs and HDZ and the HNS, is simply not to be repeated because it would be just a repeat. I ask you to do exactly what the representatives of the fire community have suggested, withdraw this proposal and do it because it is really unserious that even those basic definitions are prescribed from Wikipedia instead of professional terms. This is a good intention, there are even good details about what the HNS colleagues said, but I generally think this document is bad. He's a list of good wishes, but he deserves a more serious dora. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39638	We have a single replica reported, Col. Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39639	Comrade Novak, what you noticed is that the definition of fire is prescribed from Wikipedia, it seems to me that the whole strategy is actually prescribed from Wikipedia or in the spirit of Wikipedia. So I listen often in the public appearances of a government minister who says Google and recommend to your students Google. There are professional magazines, professional books, professional terms. This strategy is running low. After all, the parliamentary representatives of the position have pointed out which things are missing, so first of all there is no plan, there is no strategy, nothing strategic, there are no serious deadlines for anything that is wrong with this activity to be corrected and there are no real goals. And on that very example, I was saying that we didn't, that simply fire protection wasn't well organized. This strategy gives nothing to improve that organisation. Cases like the one that happened in the Cornatels can still be repeated because we're not taking enough care of the good organization.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39640	Now in response to the replica, we will hear that this little war will end within the Croatian Labour Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39641	Thank you very much. It's not war, it's really just complementing each other. The fact is, I really believe that for the community of fire it was also a shock, it was a surprise when they come across such terms and I think it's a serious failure to, that failure should certainly be corrected. But also what the representatives have pointed to so far should be respected, and among other things, I'm sorry, the Wildlife Center is constantly mentioned, but there is no deadline in this strategy, either, if that were to be realized. On the other hand, at least I got it, I guess other colleagues also have training centres or training centres. Nowhere is predicted, namely, the idea of former military facilities being used for these things. About this, at least I didn't see anything anywhere that we could tie up, so we could say okay. It's a real strategy, there's a plan, there's a vision. I think we can say this was a good idea, but frankly this isn't the level of one of these documents that should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39642	The HDSSB club's position will be presented by respected counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39643	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with the assistant. The proposal for a National Fire Protection Strategy for the period from this year to 2022, so for 10 years, it is actually the only new proposal that refers to fire and fire formation in the Republic of Croatia regarding the establishment of a regional forest fire centre for the countries of Southeast Europe. The text here on page 20 states that such an idea was yet to begin in 2009, that a meeting was held in Sarajevo where the Republic of Croatia has shown its principal interest, in principle only and that so far the only real interest has been shown by the Republic of Albania, which has also signed the document in this regard. Everything else in this National Fire Protection Strategy is a list of statistics that are also interesting. They're interesting because you can see exactly what happened, the gas and the surface and the number of firefighters, the number of fire trucks and everything else. So, in some ways, it is an overview of what we have in our fire departments in the Republic of Croatia. And now, what I have already said in the replica to Mr Baranovic, who in the meantime left here, clearly sees the difference between, therefore, the continental and the coastal part of Croatia. It is true that in the continental part of Croatia, mainly in Koprivnica and Križevci County, there is one relationship to fire, which is not only a relationship to fire, but rather I would say by far or some other forms to say socializing and everything else. So, and one enthusiasm, one joint work for the general good in the form of association and in the form of operations as fire departments, and since this is how we can see on page 7 of that table that the number of volunteer firefighters per 1,000 inhabitants, so from DVDs, so volunteer fire companies in Koprivnica-Crysevina County is 60 per 1,000, 60 people in 1,000, so they are involved in a voluntary fire company. In other continental counties, for example in Krapina-Zagorska 17, Osijek-Baranja 13,64, in Brod-Posavia, my county of 10 volunteer firefighters per 1,000 inhabitants. It's all still relatively in good numbers if we see that so-called. Adriatic County has this kind of data. In Zadar County, 3,38 voluntary firefighters per 1,000 inhabitants. In Split-Dalmatia 3,40 volunteer firefighters, Licko-Senjska has a good part, so the territorial Adriatic Sea has 4.77 firefighters. In Dubrovnik-Neretvanska 6,15, in Sibenik-Kninska 3,36. The average of the Republic of Croatia is 12.69 volunteers to say so by firefighters to 1,000 inhabitants. When fires occur in the summer, it is not important to cause a fire, we could particularly discuss and have a diversion, etc., about this today, but in any case we should mention it then we know that the public fire departments from the continental part of the Republic of Croatia, so they are all giving help to Adriatic counties in the form of sending vehicles to sea destinations but also in the form of sending people, therefore in the assistance of Adriatic counties. And now that we're looking at the number of professional firefighters that exist in these counties for a thousand inhabitants, then we see a reverse proportion rather than voluntary fire companies. Well, then, in Zadar County, we have a professional firefighter in a thousand inhabitants. In Istria 1.10, in Dubrovnik-Neretvanska 1,19, in Brod-Posaviska 0.29, in Osijek-Baranja 0.37. So we have one completely opposite direction, i.e. voluntary fire companies are large numbers, and if we were to sum up how many people it is, then we would see that volunteer firefighters in the continental part of Croatia are far more than in the Adriatic counties. And yet vice versa, professional firefighters are much more in marine counties. Who's funding it? Public fire departments are financed by the state, local troops, or voluntary fire companies by local self-government. So what happens now? And what's the conclusion on all this? That this number of voluntary fire stations that exist in the continental part of Croatia are burdened by units of local self-government. It is also true that, since Mr. Lucin raised a plate of replicas, that a large number of fires are far greater in the sea area, so in the Adriatic part of Croatia than in the continental part but I say there is also help. And something else I said in the replica, the means of the insurance premium for the general useful functions of the forest, and these are pretty big assets just ending up in or coming at the expense of these to tell the Adriatic public fire departments. It is good that the forests are not worse and in the continental part of Croatia, thank God that this is a far smaller case than in the coastal part, but if our troops from the continental part go regularly every year and the people go to help in this Adriatic part of Croatia, then it would be worth it, too, that these funds of forest security premiums for general useful functions at least partially belong to that continental part of Croatia. The strategy they're actually saying is supposed to be an idea first, so the idea comes up with a strategy, right? This regional centre, which is the only thing that I see new in terms of the strategy, so a regional centre that should be developed in Divulja near Split according to some of our plans or predictions or strategies here's a good thing to say to be arranged not only for the countries of Southeast Europe. By doing so, we do not understand what the English have long been propagating for the countries of the Western Balkans, etc., but we would say about the surrounding countries as well, as Prof. Tudjman for both Greece and Italy, etc., not just for Southeast European countries. Because here are the definitions that often put us both in the Western Balkan countries or in Southeast Europe, and that really smells like some new South-Eastern associations, but it's already over when we know that we're coming in here on July 1st and we're getting out of the midst of these and such associations. So, in any case, it is supported by the formation, the HDSSB will support the establishment of that centre in Split in Divulje, with neither the issue being resolved here nor the question of when, until then, nor the question of some extent in financing the opening of such a centre, nor any indication of any concrete in connection with the establishment of such a centre. We have the only fact that it says here that Albania has given its support to the Regional Centre in Divulje by signing the Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation in the area of protection against natural and technological disasters. Here, it's the only country that has already given some kind of consent not in principle but in real consent. Everything else is one group of statistics that can be used for this kind of analysis that I've said and that's obviously going to cause a relatively large number of replicas. But the numbers are immeasurable and they say everything. The Ministry of Defence, which should also be involved and partly since the military is very often helping in situations where firefighters are mainly in coastal or Adriatic counties in the fires and the military has to intervene either directly through the participation of the Land Army, whether the Air Force should also be the Ministry of Defence along with all others, other ministries that are listed here and ordered in this text, so the Ministry of Defence should also introduce as in the strategy the role and function of the Ministry of Defence and in which situations the Ministry of Defence should intervene with its forces. We at the HDSSB Club will actually consider this strategy and by the time we vote we will decide whether to accept it or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39644	Thank you, too. Time to break, and we'll announce in 30 minutes they'll fill the replicas and answers to the replica. First Stephen Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39645	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Grubisic, I am very pleased that you have listed the county from which I come Koprivnica-Crisisque with these indicators which confirm what I said I came from the most fire-fighting county in our country. It is certainly a confirmation of what you said to the general good, serving your environment and patriotism because we must remember that many of our brothers are firefighters and gave their lives in the Homeland War to save property. We have to remember that many until even H dared to say from Croatia that each in our midst was written by the Croatian Fire Department. It was like that. And that's why it hurts us to have volunteering in this strategy, in a way, to be neglected or not given sufficient importance, and it's extremely effective in many of our environments. Here in my county in my municipality tomorrow is a joint fire drill for the entire Koprivnica-Crysing County. Of course, there is also a commonity, but they are also improving skills, and in that part it is not just socializing and such things, but in these meetings and expertise and training. Even in education, certain results have been obtained, of course within the framework of the fire departments. Of course, further education went through the Croatian Fire Department, and now a new one is proposed. Of course, the system needs to be upgraded, and now there's a new one being proposed as far as I see universities, Fire Department systems, etc. not to mention that there is a conflict of interest in some way, as the head of the central body of the national fire department is proposing that the same central body conducts formal education primarily in the national strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39646	The replica will be answered by the respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39647	Thank you very much, colleague Milinkovic, for this replica of yours, and here according to the tables that are right here, it says that 59.97 firefighters in Koprivnica-Kryzevci County are therefore in voluntary fire companies of a thousand inhabitants, which bounces far, far above the average of all other counties. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39648	Next replica, respected Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39649	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't know if me and my colleague Grubisic are reading the same document but what you said is not true from the pay phone. Namely, the number of professional firefighters per thousand inhabitants, for example, in the first Bjelovar-Bilogor County 0.74 and in Split-Dalmatia 0.31. The Bjelovar-Bilogor County seemed to me to have had about 72 interventions, and the Split-Dalmatia County had 3 thousand 570 interventions in the past year, which is why more is the number of professional firefighters and is present in what you say to the marine counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39650	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39651	Thank you very much, first of all, Mr. Vice President, for being a little late for raising the plate, but you have set only an example of Bjelovar-Bilogor County. I was talking about examples of all 6 counties on the Adriatic coast and the number of professional firefighters per thousand inhabitants in all 6 of these counties. You've only taken the Bjelovar-Belgorska which is the largest and closest to this standard. But look at all the other county on the continent and you'll see that it's not exactly like that, because there's a little catch, but that's nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39652	Next replica, the respected Sime Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39653	Thank you very much. In fact, I have to admit that I did not understand your intensity and approach to the discussion, it is about where there are more firefighters, where there are more professional ones, where there are more volunteers. I don't understand if you're suggesting that we allocate the amount of fire. Since my colleague Babić took part of the replica to me but the answers are simple to these questions why so. Why are there fewer volunteers in Dalmatia than on the continent? Well, because a volunteer in Dalmatia spends three summer months on fires, so in Dalmatia, your firefighters are not at events, or on exercises, or on parades. They've been putting out the fire for three months. And what you're trying to do, you know what, inside the firehouse, there's one big level of community. The firemen never shared. You never had to ask for help on the continent, but people from the continent offered themselves with their resources, you don't have to pay them anything, etc. I don't think that approach will contribute to the improvement of the fire system, although you're in favour of a different allocation I don't know the funds of financial, material quantities or numbers better say people about it would be able to discuss it. I know that a fireman is financed from different sources, even certain powers are different. But what's our basic problem, that's an order. It can't be ordered with a fire system from either the Morh or the MUP, and I don't know from what, it has to be unique. No matter where the resources are allocated. And that's where you come up with a series of problems. I'm saying, I don't think that's good. I understand your political platform, I understand your need to point out that in Slavonia it is a little harder than elsewhere But in this case, you're wrong. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39654	Reply Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39655	I'm right, Mr. Lucin, I'm right. It's not about the location of the fire as you alludate, so something ironic in that sense, but about the location of the funds. Because you know well that in the Adriatic counties, in each of them is the three summer months, it is minimally whether, therefore, people, vehicles and all others are located, as they say, a forward vehicle in from the continental part to therefore in those counties. Furthermore, the tradition that is here exists in Koprivnica and Križevci County in an extremely large number as Mr Hrelja said to socialise whether it is together but also this tradition unfortunately in Dalmatia, to say in the Adriatic counties did not live. And maybe because people betray rooms, they have a lot of work to do over the summer, so they can't participate in fire stations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39656	The next line is the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39657	Thank you very much. You pointed to a difference in the number of members of voluntary fire companies in the interior and on the Adriatic, and you practically pointed to a tradition that exists within the interior that people gather around these DVDs that, I say, it was also the rural football clubs of the minority the only place where they gather while obviously on this coastal part there was something more interesting. However, through this Strategy, the ministry has listed a part that reminds me of this education population for fire protection and operational action, so it is entirely wrong. The population should be protected and professional firefighters and voluntary firefighters operate operationally. This is a completely wrong approach. The second thing, you said that the number of fires in the continental, in the coastal part that is larger than the continental part, it's not, it's the other way around, it's just that the damage has been done and the surfaces are far greater in this coastal area. And the third thing, both to yourself and to you, and to all the others who spoke before us, nobody mentioned, among other things, that 15 years ago at the Faculty of Forests in Zagreb, she began researching the development of the fires of Makia and the forest of our coast in the conditions of moisture and wind and 5 years ago at the Ruđer Bošković Institute began working on the mathematical model. Let's say these expert analyses are not mentioned at all in this Strategy and I think that, in any case, it should be an integral part of this material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39658	And this replica corresponds to the respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39659	Thank you very much. Comrade Novak, I know about this study, like, the olive is unscathed, growing on all sides of the maquis, and then the possibility of forest fires in this Adriatic part is much greater. In this continental part and floods, therefore, are also the subject of firemen's activities. Not just the fire, but the flood. As far as the number of fires is concerned, it's clear that it's been stretched out for a year in this continental area to buy so many fires to say that it's as voluntary as it is in the Adriatic part of it, but the damage is indeed disproportionately greater than in this continental part of us. People's training, fire training, I passed it while I was working at the hospital about 10 years ago, and I think it's good for people to at least learn how to handle that machine, etc. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39660	The next replica of the respected Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39661	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic will look back on what you said, so continental Croatia or our coast, so I would not share the difference in this way. I just want to explain why these numbers are here. For example, the Međimurje County has over 4 thousand firefighters and the Međimurje County is if I do not cheat 4th by number of firefighters in the Republic of Croatia. As well as Koprivnica and Križevnica, therefore Varazdinska, you will see what part of Croatia we are in and it is simple because of the long tradition. So there's tradition and voluntary fire companies, actually in many places are the only places that organize cultural, sporting events. So around firefighters is a lifetime of places, villages, some settlements. So here's the voluntary fire company from Čakovec will have 150th anniversary, and they direct themselves to us, and they've asked me, as advocates, to help them in the part we talked about when the budget was being passed and when I personally asked the amendments not to cut the funds to the firefighters. So what is their problem, whether on the continent or in any other part of Croatia, it is outdated equipment. They have some cars that are 30, 40 vehicles, whether they're for use at all. They don't have helmets, they don't have basic equipment to go to the firehouse with, they need to save lives, they need to save property. They have over 50 members and they don't have those members to give but these people are persistent and they want to help and be active in their community. So they're not on parades as it was said, they're people who want to contribute to protecting something that's worth it to them and of course they'll respond to those from the continent if they need to be somewhere on the sea and it's perfectly normal. However, we make sure that they do not have the means, that they do not have the finance above all, and that they do not have adequate equipment and that we need to help them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39662	The replica corresponds to the respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39663	Thank you very much. My colleague Glavak, I am sorry that I mentioned only Koprivnica-Kristevci County, but it really by the number of volunteer firemen from DVDs to thousands of residents bounces compared to all other counties. So that's to say round 60 firefighters. Međimurje County is third in number, behind Bjelovarska-Bilogorska comes Međimurje County with 34 firefighters, we cannot share the decimals of a firefighter. Therefore, in any case, the Međimurje County is the same among the first. And as for this difference in the number of these voluntary fire departments and these professional fire departments, you haven't said a word about it. So about the public fire department and the firefighters in them and in these Adriatic counties compared to the number in the continental part, it's obvious, that's how this table shows. There's no other way. After all, let us also develop a tradition in Dalmatia, in our Dalmatia, in Adriatic Croatia, however you wish, to develop voluntary fire companies there too. Why not encourage that?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39664	Next replica, Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39665	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague said and you resent that there are more professional firefighters in coastal counties than continental counties. A colleague, it is not the same to put out a fire on a barn or a strnik and put out a dense pine forest, especially if the fire is spreading towards the city or the village, towards the place. That's where professional firefighters really need it. You have to admit that in the coasts, and especially on the islands, fewer professional firefighters are much less equipped. And imagine when that fire is on an island like '98. was on the island of Korčula where hectares and hectares burned both pine forests and olive trees and vineyards and where we had to actually lead the children to the sea because we had no way out. You know how long it took us to get firefighters from the continental part of Croatia. So a lot of times in the coast or in the islands might take an hour or two to prevent disaster, where there's no time to wait for help, where it really needs to work, and we have people in particular who are in voluntary fire companies, who aren't even there when they're supposed to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39666	We will hear the answer of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39667	Thank you very much. A colleague of Tomasic, in Velika Kopanica, when the barn burns, then on the barn if it is sown or otherwise, it is indeed the speed of expansion or burn perhaps equal to the burning maquis in some Dalmatian counties or on the island of Korčula where you are currently living. So Kopanica and Korčula or what's called the fig tree have certain connections. So what I was talking about is a disproportionate number of professional firefighters and the number of those in DVDs, so volunteer firefighters. That's what it's about, and you can talk about the fire at the barns or the maquis, so anyway, it's equal to damage and width.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39668	Replica, Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39669	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Grubisic, you were talking about the assistance we get in the coast in the summer months from the continental part. I must tell you that we advocate that those funds spent on arrival, stay, food, accommodation of these voluntary firefighters or members of the public fire department, to be awarded to our voluntary fire departments because it would be far cheaper and more efficient. Namely, our firefighters would only get personal income, all of these costs are extra and much bigger and more significant, while we don't have to talk too much about efficiency when we know what it's like to jump on junk where our continental firefighters aren't so good at it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39670	And this replica corresponds to Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39671	Dear fellow, you would like to offend our firefighters from the continent, and pray to God for help. When they come, they come voluntarily and where they sleep, and I wouldn't want to talk about how they... Yeah, yeah, it's, uh, in hotels as great as Paul Getty. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So other than that, the funds, you didn't listen well, I said premium funds, insurance for general forest functions, look where they go and what amount they're going to. Well, if it wasn't for the pay, it wouldn't pay for the accommodation, but there's plenty left. But there's no voluntary fire, there isn't. Here's your license plate and take a look.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39672	And the last replica, the esteemed Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39673	Dear counterpart Grubisic, it is this controversy that is being led in the Assembly that proves that the fire department is not well organised in Croatia. Here's the proof. Even before some colleagues mentioned fellow Lucin, the main problem is commanding is absolutely certain and the main problem is organisation, not firefighters themselves, but just that, commanding and organising. One of the things you mentioned, I don't think you wanted to share Croatia in Adriatic and northern Croatia, it even seems to me a logical disproportionate proportion of professional firefighters, that it is more down at sea, but I agree with you that volunteering should be encouraged even down in Dalmatia. But what you were saying was a matter of funding. Someone used to say more sources are financing fire. It should be arranged, the chaos is great, and that chaos should be. Mrs. Glavak said about an example of Međimurje firefighters who have old equipment. The problem is, we're investing in the wrong things. I mean what I've pointed out before, this noble, important activity that life depends on, the wealth of Croatia depends on, is simply too little to talk about, it's too little to care about. So, they're all on the same track somewhere, so we don't have to give each other a chance to see if continentals know how to trust each other in the highs of the Dalmatians or where they sleep, where they don't sleep. This is just proof that we need to take care of the command, we need to take care of how organized and professional firefighters and volunteer firefighters are, how funded and what relationships firefighters have with, say, the State Department for Protection and Rescue when their bosses say when the biggest fires are on vacation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39674	And the last answer to the last line and Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39675	Yes, you have well understood, colleague Vuksic, that I do not share Adriatic and continental Croatia, let me tell Slavonia and Baranja at last, but I am just trying, so I am trying to say that it is necessary to develop fire and in this part in which it is statistically seen that it is, in a much smaller extent, represented, a range of pardons than in the continental part of Croatia. Well, maybe in that case, there wouldn't be a need for voluntary fire companies or public fire departments from Slavonia to help out there. But good and that's to say, in some ways, it's kind of like someone said hanging out here, so that's good. Here is this noble activity I agree with you that it should be established so that funding should also be improved in this Strategy to see who and how and when and how this noble activity is financed, or fire in the Republic of Croatia. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39676	Thank you, too. That's what ended the club debate. There are conditions for me to declare a recess now. We will continue at 15.00 hours with individual debate, and the first in line is the respected representative Branko Hrg. Bon appetit!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39677	My colleagues and colleagues continue to discuss each other individually. This is Branko Hrg. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39678	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There's been a little discussion about this problem. I will say about the analysis of the situation in the fire department of the Republic of Croatia that is what in this strategy's proposal is actually the only right and worth looking at and seeing until these other things are said quite superficially and are certainly not something that could be accepted. It is a miracle here that the Croatian Fire Community is put aside, that it is basically placed in a bracket as someone who should carry a complete system of fire protection. I would say that this strategy is, in fact, if it is the basis for or the basis for the adoption of a new Fire Department Act, then surely something that will encourage further destruction of the fire system, especially the voluntary fire department that was so much talked about here. I will say that I am coming, a lot has been said here also in discussions of colleagues and colleagues on fire in certain local self-governments in the county, so I will give myself the right to say that I am coming from a city that is the most fire city in Croatia, namely the town of Križevci has 22 thousand inhabitants and 3 thousand volunteer firefighters. Which means that we have about 13% of voluntary fire in the system of total population. There was also talk here about voluntary fire companies doing something in fires, doing something in associations, and I'm going to say that in this fire protection strategy, it's exactly the kind of voluntary fire-fighting that needs to be looked at in more ways, and even in this strategy, even if it's even talking about fire protection because volunteer fire-fighting isn't really just a fire-extinguishing association, but it's people who come to help whenever they need any of their neighbors, famous, unknowns, anyone who needs help. It means one humanity in action. I'm also going to say that this strategy would actually lead to an increase in bureaucracy, a duplication to the damage of the operation, we can call it so freely, because even the current organisation of the fire department is not exactly benefiting from the fire and the operation of the fire department because we're always sharing, and here was the debate where we were able to hear that we started dividing north to south, to Dalmatia and the continent in the firehouse. Firefighters never split, they always came to each other's aid, and they don't need to discuss it that way. These people in that system know very well how and when, who needs help. But it's not good to share professional fire and volunteer fire because they have to be with each other. In fact, it's professionals who can do the most demanding part of the job, but without a man in the firehouse, in principle, there can be huge damages that are difficult to compensate for, and in the end, the fires can't be stopped. This is why volunteering is very important and important and that is why it needs to be nurtured and therefore it must be in the first place in this strategy and it must be around it in principle all together, and in order for it to be then the Croatian Fire Community as a roof institution must definitely be the headquarters of this strategy. We today have systems and strategies and laws that are being passed to set up places, to make some bureaucratic team that will manage something, so it would be good to do in these analyses of the Strategy to protect against fire functionality, for example the fire commanders of the county fire departments. Professional functions, professional duties, we're talking firemen's equipment, education, human education, and I'm asking why we didn't put on paper that's functionality means these fire department commanders of county fire departments? What do they serve, whom do they command? Why do we spend an average of about 250,000 kuna a year on every professional commander of the fire department? What are the effects, where's their army? They don't have it. You know why they don't have it? Because the public fire departments that each has its commander and which manages the area operate in cities are in principle operationally carrying out all the tasks and tasks necessary. Fire departments have their own commanders, municipal and urban communities, and they do the same work and do it voluntarily. If a combination of public fire departments is made with voluntary firepower then we get professionals and volunteers in one package and we practically have a much cheaper and more functional system than this because we keep putting some generals who then invent to agree that they have some justification. And then I'm going to ask another question here when we're talking about this Fire Protection Strategy, which is a function or an analysis of the functionality in general and the existence of this kind of structure of the State Protection and Rescue Authority. What are they doing? We put them here that they would organize, that they would be coordinators, that they would be practically a headquarters for fire protection. And I'm asking what they're doing? Why don't we in the strategy proposal have one such analysis to see these few years behind us what was the function, which they achieved the results, what they should continue to do to see at all what they're commanding them to do. It's nothing again because the device isn't well-made and we've got that problem again. We have a duplication system where then the civil part of each other phones to find out what's going on at which end of what's going on. And when it comes to fire protection, we have a situation where those who operate still have to report to those who should report what they did and where they're going. That's what it looks like in practice, I'm responsible for it, I'm behind every word I've been saying here, I've lived with it for years, I've been with the firemen every day, and I know how it works or how someone just bothers it to work better. We're destroying the system instead of building it, destroying the system, and that's not good. Furthermore, what would be very important and important in this strategy may seem funny to someone. In these measures that are mentioned where the chimney service is, where are the motifs of the dimwater canals in cities and municipalities around the houses? How many units of local self-government have a chimney cadastre built? Is that what we got? Should it also be in measures to protect against fire? The largest number of fires in populated areas occur in chimneys or poor installation in the extreme case. So that part is missing, and it's not even processed, not even mentioned in measures, and we all have chimneys, of course, if we have furnaces on solid fuel and even where they're not roasting solid fuel, and there can be big problems. So I don't think this is material that could be adopted. It would be really wise to get him back to work, make some more of this analysis that I and I have proposed means the role of the State Department for Protection and Rescue, the additions still inside those measures and putting the fire community and volunteer fire department in that main place, the centre in principle of some focus on fire protection at all because without that voluntary fire department we're not going to achieve anything. Practically volunteer firefighters everywhere in developed countries are highly appreciated and respected and if this way goes to keep us professional, so we do clerks, bureaucrats in principle will spend more and more money on it, we will constantly manage something, and those who need to get it will have nothing. In the end, we as citizens will have big problems because what should be happening will not happen, we will not protect ourselves from the fire. You imagine just the situation... of the continent and the role of a volunteer firefighter on the continent or at sea, you know how much time is spent just on the prevention of the month of May, the month of protection from fire? It's the most important part of the work being done. How much time is spent by volunteer firefighters when they tour houses when they warn about cleaning chimneys before the heating season. These are jobs that you can't see and then we put in a barrier for the Croatian Fire Department. So my proposal is absolutely unacceptable as a material that was started to argue well but with a lot of additional supplements that should be put inside to be seriously discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39679	Thank you, too. Next up for the debate, Ante Babic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39680	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister Tonkovic, colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt that the promoter did not have good intentions by writing a fire protection strategy and that he did not mean the danger of fires involving people and nature, cultural goods, and that there was a disturbance in the aesthetic value of the environment. By harmonising the rules of the Republic of Croatia with the EU directive, it has further contributed to the importance of protecting against fire and to better organisation of fire. Prevention and operational protection against fires carried out by fire inspection services shall establish irregularities or infringements of the law in order to remove irregularities and better welcome the fire seasons. According to the proposal of this strategy, the units of local and regional self-government which are obliged to act in a preventive manner to protect against fire. I use an opportunity like most colleagues to warn about such things and what Mr. Hrg was talking about in large part I would agree, which spoke about public fire departments and voluntary fire companies, and I will rely more on voluntary fire companies. In today's difficult economic opportunities, high unemployment, and thus reduced funding from income tax to the local self-government unit in Croatia, especially in the Split-Dalmatia County, cannot allocate enough funds for the normal functioning of voluntary fire companies. These inaccessible assets are actually being choked by DVDs, municipalities are being weakened, and hence voluntary fire companies. In the Republic of Croatia, 20 fire-fighting county communities and the City of Zagreb fire-fighting community operate in which 95 professional fire-fighting units are located. From the table for the whole of Croatia, it is not logical for me, and today I was saying that one of the continental counties has 0.7 people per thousand residents with 50 annual interventions, while, for example, Split-Dalmatia County has 0.3 people per thousand residents with 3750 annual interventions. Of course, here in no way do I want to share fire on the mainland and on the coast, nor is that my intention. And what Mr. Hrg was saying, firemen know it very well, they are solid with each other during the tourist season. From the continental part comes a large number of voluntary fire companies and we are very grateful to them. Of these 3750 annual interventions, however, 242 are on buildings, 1510 open spaces, and 85 on vessels and vehicles and 1913 technical interventions. There are 1889 voluntary fire companies in Croatia. Of course, the continental part of Croatia has a larger tradition in voluntary fire companies because these are not only DVD spaces but they are spaces for social, cultural, sports and any other events in these places. Like in Dalmatia, it's not the case. There's a society about 50 years old. In Međimurje, for example, or in the northwestern part of Croatia, certain companies had their own fire companies, so-called fire companies. economic fire companies but certainly because of this economic situation and the necessary funds for their functioning and they are being shut down. For example, this year was the 140th anniversary of the oldest voluntary fire company in Croatia. DVDs are actually societies of people enthusiasts, lovers of nature, environmental protection, guardians of cultural goods, people who save other people, animals and material goods. In the part of Croatia I was already talking about, from Male Sutotica, Štrigova, Krištanovac, Savska Vesa, Gardinovac, such a tradition is slowly obtained by actually voluntary fire companies on islands and in Vis, Korčula, Solta, Brač, Hvar, owner and also in part of the Dalmatian Zagora where it was not a tradition of for example in Muč, Lečevica, Vrlica, Sinj, Trilj, Imotski, Zagvod, Zadvarje, Kučići or Lovreć. It's hard and it can't be compared to public fire departments with voluntary fire departments because of professionality and equipment, and that's what we talked about here today. In the absence of funds from units of local self-government, voluntary fire companies are actually struggling with equipment and a rolling stock. It's mostly 40-year-old vehicles and 50-year-olds that are hard to maintain, and in fires they're irreplaceable, and they're front-end vehicles, and I'm particularly apostrophy in the part of Dalmatia's tanker. The configuration of terrain in the Split-Dalmatia County actually makes it more difficult for voluntary fire companies not only to shut down but also to destroy equipment because of sharp rocks mainly for hoses, i.e. tires on those vehicles. Which, again, increases the resources we don't have. Members of these societies when I've talked a little bit wear jumpsuits up to 10 years old which I shouldn't talk about without talking about boots, gloves and helmets. Coming back from the hot spots, I watched it, members of voluntary fire departments when they're preparing their equipment actually improvise because they don't have the resources. The pipes that are on the fire are mostly destroyed and they don't have the means to buy new ones. Which is a big problem during the fire season because you have to be ready at any moment and you have a few a day. Therefore, it is not good for only local self-government units to care for voluntary fire companies, if that is the case, their survival will certainly come into question and that should not happen. The state should certainly encourage voluntary fire companies, especially today, because our tourism is one of the leading economic branches and the danger of fire is constantly increasing. In order to protect against fires, but especially in Dalmatia, voluntary fire-fighting companies are irreplaceable regardless of public and fire-fighting units. This 2012 report shows that a rapid reaction by voluntary fire companies of 95.59 fires has been extinguished within 4 hours. Despite a large number of fires thanks to DVD firefighters in last year's tourist season, a large number of endangered facilities were saved, and it should be pointed out in particular that residents and tourists in the county were completely safe. The prevention of forest noises, the setting of rapid fire intervention supervisors, has achieved a great deal in prevention, and I did not see it in this Strategy which should be particularly apostrophetic. There are other ways to act quickly, to prevent fires, we have often written to the ministry, from tipping on the road, punishing unconscious people during the fire season, which we talk little about, whether it's domestic or foreign guests. DVDs are certainly an irreplaceable factor in protecting against fires and thus in protecting both the natural, cultural and human potentials of our country. That is why we must surely find the funds respected Deputy Minister, regardless of the economic crisis, to ensure that DVDs are provided with the necessary means of working because their enthusiasm, sacrifice and humanity will not be sufficient to preserve themselves and develop if they do not have minimal equipment to oppose fire-status. I hope you can contribute to that, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39681	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Nadia Jelash. Here you go. The microphone of a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39682	I find it a little unusual that you were talking about the state of fire, especially voluntary fire in Međimurje County. I find it rather unusual that you mispronounced the names of certain settlements. You're talking about voluntary fire companies in Međimurje County having trouble getting equipment, so they don't have enough financial resources and that they are, that the equipment is inadequate and especially that it's obsolete. I can only agree to this to one extent, therefore, voluntary fire companies in the Međimurje County are constantly renewing their equipment, we have very, very many cases where new fire trucks have been purchased. So, the fact is that as one segment of civil society, as well, as a single segment of civil society, it must unfortunately share the fate of what is right now in Croatia. And I finally have to tell you when you're talking about fire in Međimurje County, that by any chance you've had a chance to read the reports in recent years, then you'd notice one very interesting thing, so our DVDs are increasingly engaged in ceasefire. Fortunately, the fires in Međimurje county are getting smaller and much more engaged in relief actions, providing assistance in traffic accidents.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39683	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, buddy Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39684	Well, colleague Jelash, it's possible that I may have said something wrong or it's my guilty accent. I was talking about those associations from Međimurska and Varazdin County that come to help us actually during the summer when there are great fires. As far as I know, they're saying it's "Krženica" or "Gardinovec," I don't know. I may have said it wrong, but the Gardinian I'm guessing. If that's wrongly said, I apologize or I've misinformed that place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39685	Thank you, too. Next to discuss Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39686	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative of the Proposer, colleagues and colleagues. Well, every national strategy deserves attention and a special debate. I would ask, however, that this national strategy protects against fires to approach it much, much more seriously than any of those so far, and you will understand, since I come from Sibenik-Knin County, I come from Vodice, and already through the debate, it has been mentioned and talked about the Kornati tragedy. Unfortunately, here we have today the inscription Kornati tragedy: at the trial of the listening dramatic audio recordings recorded during the fireman's death. The pilot says send all the air force here to Kornate, the control says that the message above was something different, etc. So the National Fire Protection Strategy for the next period finely states that a system of firefighting needs to be improved and the status redefined. However, it will certainly not be possible to make this whole through purely administrative measures unless there are also financial measures. You will also allow that I must express my doubts about this and this national strategy when we know that this same government that is proposing this strategy by bringing the 2013 budget did not take into account this segment of society at all. In fact, as capital donations to support the equipment of voluntary fire companies in Croatia, and there are 1889, it envisioned a high amount, as many as 1000 kunas. I don't know how to schedule it on 1889 DVDs and what a capital donation it is. When we look further at how the decentralised funds are deployed, we know very well that the teacher in Vodice and the teacher in Buzet or Crikvenica has the same personal income, i.e. that the same amounts are foreseen. However, when it comes to public fire departments, that is not the case. Like that. The public fire unit of Vodice, which numbers 16 employees in 2013, is enough million and 598 thousand kuna, while the public fire department in Buzet for 17, means only one more will get 2 million and 246 thousand, which means 30% more gets a professional firefighter in Buzet than the one in Vodice. Not Vodice's worst example, we have a public fire department of Daruvar where 30 firemen are provided with 2 million and 630 thousand kuna. In this regard, firemen in Vodice have not been damaged since the city allocates another million kuna, but I would like to appeal to the promoter, the government, to account for the budget and that what is very important is that in the coming period the state should have the same criteria for co-financing of fire activities in local self-government. Of course, you should not forget those units of local self-government that have a smaller budget, lower categories of development that are also available to them for firepower. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39687	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39688	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Members, I agree with you, but that's where I'd be referring to my colleague, Jelish. Unfortunately, our firefighters like all segments of society simply have to share the fate of the crisis and the fate of the situation that money simply doesn't exist. However, your debate has offered me another example, one example of the situation on the ground where you have a situation where one of the mayors of the municipality doesn't want to confirm the elected president of the city's DVD, which is the center of the municipality, in which it shuts down that same DVD in which it exclusively destroyed the vehicle it received from the state. So I think it's a tanker vehicle, but don't hold my hand. In the same village in the same municipality, we have a case that recently burned down a house. By the time the firemen came from next door, the house was burned down. Whoever's responsible is not the head of the municipality who doesn't want to finance, doesn't want to participate, doesn't want to encourage the work of the fire department. And I'm sure we agree that in smaller places it's very important to have a DVD, but often by the time the public units get in and out of the field, unfortunately, the thing is irreparable. There's only so much I wanted to say that local self-government units are part of the responsibility, and they don't always show up in the best light, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39689	Thank you, too. We've also got an answer for you, fellow Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39690	I agree with my colleague that the units of local self-government should bear part of the responsibility and burden, but you must agree, if the crisis is that the crisis must affect everything equally and when the funds from the state budget are allocated that it cannot happen that the fireman in Buzet gets 153,000 kuna, at the same time in Daruvar 97,000 for annual personal income.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39691	Thank you. Next up for discussion, Mladen Marelić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39692	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the Deputy Minister, my colleagues and my colleagues. This strategy includes significant resources such as updating fire protection plans, improving the state of fire, on-call and observation, which is quite significant in the coast because they are so hilly that observation is the main factical resources that can be intervened, for rapid intervention. Also building new fire roads, the average to be maintained because the fire on the island with pine forest is a pine tree when you throw that bang at 300, 400 meters is not so simple when you find yourself in that forest you have no backwaters, secure a return to often sound a new fire or stay in the fire. It happened to us on Korčula that we also had a disaster in the late 1980s where the brothers' families... burned to death for such a situation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's one problem with these Polish roads that aren't state owners, so we forget them. I think all these fire roads, the Polish roads, we have to put everything into a better shut-down function. We have to really be here to thank a team that's certainly important in Dalmatia to shut down, these canaders, these pilots who fly for hours and hours at that temperature that's in those cabins, in the fog, in the smoke, where the power lines and the very dangerous conditions are. I mean, well done, they really should be given credit for those things. We're looking at the situation when we put ourselves on loads either in France, Italy. We have really tanks that are 40 years old, but when they come down closer to where the hilly terrains are, there are new vehicles. We're facing a reverse situation. At least I can speak for the islands, part of the coast that we have very old vehicles that are unused. It would be good to think about it because all islands, all municipalities, and cities have fire-fighting voluntary societies. The nearest public fire department is 150 kilometers away. We've got a unit coming in from the continental area over the summer. It happens more than once that these people who come to the field, who are very stoned, unpleasant terrains, quite another way of fire that is to come and they themselves find themselves in an awkward situation. And at the same time, we have a lot of young people who have passed fire tests that can be used, that would certainly reduce the cost of not having anything to do in the islands, certainly bigger islands, to form public fire departments that would include these young people who have nothing to do over the summer, and they are willing to, are involved in fire-fighting societies to get the most involved because they certainly know the terrain better than the ones we live in, but we are not in such a situation that we are often in such terrains. Because we know that there's a one-way fire going on in those areas in the morning, that in four times a day these fires are changing. So it takes a well-trained team to do it in quality and not endanger their lives, and we all know that municipalities and towns in less have no means to form these public professional units. And that's why I expect this strategy to take care of that too, and that it will improve the situation on our entire coast as well as on the continental part, because more or less we are all at risk, but we have to admit that we have a lot more of these fires on the coast, open fires and where you, the fire can't almost shut down with public units except without the help of the air force. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39693	Thank you, too. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39694	Honorable MPs and MPs. I would like to thank you today for the observations and remarks that we will consider in drawing up new legislation with due care. The National Fire Protection Strategy is a document which still sets long-term, comprehensive, general objectives. We've said a reduction in fires, a number of fires, a reduction in the number of victims, a reduction in material damage and an improvement in the fire system, and it certainly needs to be done. This strategy does not address the problem of the future organisation of fire, the status of the fire community, the DUSUZ and voluntary fire companies. It is designed as a document that will guide and shape the overall area of protection against fire, prevention and operation. And second for a certain period of time. It routes a path that should take all our activities, i.e. all the systems involved, to protect against fires in the Republic of Croatia. Today's debate included comments, i.e. highlighted problems with the financing of fire, under-developed plans and implementation deadlines. This, as well as other issues which have been raised today through the debate, will be resolved through future legislation and this through the adoption of new laws, the Fire, Protection and Rescue Act, the Civil Protection Act, the Fire Protection Act. In line with what I have said in advance, I would once again point out that the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security supported the adoption of the National Fire Protection Strategy, with the conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia until the end of 2014, and after the adoption of the Civil Protection Act, the Fire Protection Act, the Fire Protection Act and the Law on Protection and Rescue made a strategy to protect against fires with a plan of realization. This process of making new regulations has been started. In the further phase, which will be very soon, all state bodies, associations as well as citizens of the local administration and self-government unit will be involved. However, for the sake of the public today, it is also possible for the current legislative regulation to work on all fire protection systems and the safety of citizens and property is in no way compromised. The fact is that every system, including this one in terms of fire protection, has room to improve, and in this sense today your comments and suggestions for new legal solutions will be considered with due regard. The issue of security is the issue of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. As many Assembly representatives have held out in the debate, it is necessary once again to pay respects to all members of professional firefighters, volunteer firefighters, as well as to all those who have done everything to protect against fires in all these past years and today to be at an appropriate level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39695	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39696	Proposal for a national fire protection strategy for the period from 2013 to 2022. The debate on the proposal is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a strategy. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes 78 for, 6 votes against and 30 abstentions are the national fire protection strategy for the period from 2013 to 2022 in the text proposed by the applicant. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to do so by the end of 2014 and after the adoption of the Civil Protection Act, the Fire Protection Act, the Fire Protection Act and the Law on Protection and Rescue.". Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the 77 votes for and 35 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39697	We continue with - Annual Report on the Implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2012; Report was submitted by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data pursuant to Article 4. The law on the right to access information. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Mr Dubravko Bilić is with us on behalf of the promoter. Headmaster in the opening? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39698	Mr. Vice-President, I warmly welcome you to the Office for the Protection of Personal Data, which is the applicant of this report. We submit a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information even though we are no longer in charge of implementing this law under the new law adopted in the Croatian Parliament, but I will brief you on our activities over the past year. As an agency, we have respected all the remarks and parliamentary representatives and the board on the prospect of saying our 2011 Report and we have tried to sum it up, shorten and be more focused in it on real problems. The law enforcement report was submitted by 2852 public authorities which increased by 7% compared to 2011 and 234% compared to 2010 when only 854 public authorities fulfilled their legal obligation. During 2012, the agency received 709 items, an increase of 127% compared to 2011. Of the total cases received, there were 480 complaints, and of those 480 complaints, 161 referred to the resolution of denied requests for access to information, and 319 complaints or 66% were due to the so-called ‘. "The silences of the administration." In 2012, 21 complaints from 2011, which means that during 2012, the agency had a total of 501 complaints from the area of access to information. Out of the total number of complaints held by the agencies, 362 complaints were resolved. It is apparent from the above that the agency has resolved 93% more complaints compared to 2011. To assume that the reasons for the increase in the number of complaints and other cases are in raising the level of knowledge among the complainants on their rights and in their work, i.e. the conduct of the public authorities on the requirements for access to information within the legal time limits. The same constant increase in the number of complaints, as well as the complaints made by the same natural persons, also points to the confidence that parties in the proceedings have in the work of the agency itself. During 2012, the complainants launched 13 administrative disputes before the competent administrative courts and the agency made 13 responses to the complaint, representing 2.7% compared to the total number of cases and the reduction was compared to 2011 in which 24 administrative disputes against our solutions were launched, or 11% in that case. Which only shows that the agency carefully applies all the facts when making its solutions. I would especially point out that we have also been involved as an agency in the implementation of certain European projects, and we are actively involved in cooperation with NGOs and representations of other countries in Croatia that help raise awareness of Croatian citizens about the right to access information. In this segment we have managed to do a large number of educations and our programmes have passed more than a thousand information officers and representatives of NGOs, which we consider to be a good way to raise awareness not only of the complainants but also of those who have to resolve complaints from Croatian citizens, or other complainants. The agency also participated in the education of information officers from the government of the Republic of Croatia and government offices and ministries, which we consider to be a good way to reduce the number of complaints. I would especially like to thank this route and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which has enabled us to use their resources for free because the agency is constantly struggling with finance. Since this is the last year in which the agency is concerned about this constitutional right of Croatian citizens, I would only briefly recapitulate these two years where we can conclude that the results of the improvement of the legislative framework, access to information are visible. Citizens and other users of information rights used the Institute's right to access information more often than in previous years, which is positive and encouraging in terms of human rights. On the other hand, the fact of a number of complaints is particularly due to the so-called the public authorities' silences indicate that additional efforts must be made by the public authorities to resolve requests for access to information within the legal time limits and to make decisions more successful in resolving the requirements, in keeping with the principle that the availability of information is a rule and that the short-term information is an exception that must be used in accordance with the legal constraints. Regardless of the lack of financial resources, the agencies have managed, with the help of the EU and the various bilateral projects and cooperation with other institutions, in particular with NGOs, to hold a number of educations for information officers as well as representatives of associations. The Agency has also developed a number of promotional materials from the projects that we shared with NGOs in education to all interested people. Also funded from the project was a promotional video that was broadcast on HRT, which further raised the awareness of Croatian citizens. I would only ultimately wish for all the happiness and support of the new commissioner in his work, and the agency will provide him with full support anyway because we will continue to work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39699	Thank you, too. Do the committee's rapporteurs take a word for it? Here is my colleague Vukšić, in front of the Committee on Information, Information and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39700	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Bilic, co-workers and colleagues. Very briefly, today, the Committee on Information, Information and Media discussed the report on the implementation of the Law on Access to Information for 2012 and this is all what counterpart Bilic said in several discussions, and it is very important that one of the few decisions that has been taken unanimously with 10 votes for. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39701	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists Branko Vukšić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39702	Thank you very much again. Well the least of all the objections should be given to this report which is very constructive, quite certain that several people who would have done this report might have chosen in different ways, but only a report is very correct to me, it is informative, it is not as Kregar mentioned in the discussion on the board is not as comprehensive or as wide as it was before, but there is more concrete information than there were previous reports which were general reports. Surely we've heard a thousand times in our lives that whoever rules the information actually rules the world. Information is the product number one of the most competitive goods in the world. And also the right to access information is one of the fundamental human rights. Let's say we began to realize that the right to information is almost equal to the right to work with that in order to dare argue that this right to information that is very important is very few citizens using. What are democratic states in the world? It is certain that those states that give citizens information without impediment. So those countries are more democratic and offer information to citizens, not to keep that information secret. They are more democratic countries that educate citizens in order to live easier to employ and make their daily life simpler. Despite all this, the right to access information is one of the new rights many citizens do not know about, and especially do not know about it in the Republic of Croatia. Although, compared to 2011, the number of complaints by citizens against bodies of authorities that do not comply with the Constitution and the law has doubled even more than that, the right to access information is only beginning to talk shyly in Croatia. One of the major problems seen at the very beginning of this report is that the government does not bring to the day of today even though it was due, a list of public authorities. What are public authorities' bodies? bodies which are obliged to provide information that is not classified at the request of citizens or journalists. Since we do not have a precise list of bodies of the public authority, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia has helped us as it says in this report. The administrative court of Croatia gave an interpretation in one ruling that public authorities and companies were founded under the means of other bodies of public authority. In the second judgment, the Administrative Court says the sports association is also a body of public authority. For what? Because sports activities are said to be of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Because they are bodies under, public authorities provided that they are partially or entirely financed from local and state budgets. So they're determined in fact that public authorities' bodies are public money, which seems very logical to me. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, which will no longer submit this report as it becomes subject to amendments to the laws of the Commissioner for Access to Information, has established a minimum number of public authorities, around 5430. According to the Court of Justice's rulings, the number of public authorities is much higher. I appeal from this place to the Government to make a list of the public authorities' bodies, especially by the administrative court's decisions. But even those bodies of public authorities that are... public authorities do not consider it appropriate to comply with the laws we have passed here in the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So when we often say that the laws are a dead letter on paper, this law confirms it. Of the 5430 public authorities only around 50%, a little more than 50% submitted a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information. This is the truth increase by 7% compared to 2011 and even by 234% compared to 2010. But it certainly does not satisfy fully, not completely, only partially satisfy legal frameworks. Let's just say, the only thing that delights is that, that the requests for access to information received in 2004 were in '600, means slightly less than 20,000, and in 2012, there were more than 53,000, which means that citizens began to know what they were entitled to, which is what public authorities are for them and that information that can facilitate everyday life is increasingly used. However, I stress in the end that when far more than half of the public authorities do not consider it necessary to comply with the law, we can talk about lawlessness. A state that does not respect its own laws and a state that does not impose sanctions on those who do not comply with the laws adopted by this House of Commons. So the Law on the right to access information is half a dead letter on paper, and we said that only half the body of the public authorities stick to it. That's why even sometimes it's inappropriate to fight that we're a legal state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39703	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Josip Kregar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39704	I thank the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Bilic. I'll start by saying this report should be adopted and read with due consideration and attention. In fact, what is quite clear in this report and Mr Bilic pointed out the fact that, in the meantime, while the amendments are being reported here, we have changed the legislation, the circumstances in which it is actually being reported about the accessibility of information. I don't think only about the amendments to the law, the most important circumstance that's changed is the fact that by changing the Constitution, we've raised this right to the level of constitutional law. Please, and the paper says... It's not human rights, but constitutional law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's an important thing. Because there may be possible compounds, not only in administrative but also in the Constitutional Court. And one more thing to point out immediately, and point out, this is not even about the right of citizens to seek information that they are interested in and which is not protected, this is about the obligation of a different way of political decision and action of the state, an open government. So, it's not just that I have the right to seek but there is also the obligation of state and public bodies to advance and without any request allowing... the availability of all the data they have, all those decisions, the arguments that have been made. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is new is that such philosophy and approach to the organisation and operation of the public authority of state leadership has spread as a global global movement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is almost no more state in which this legislation has not been amended, by the way, to say our law is one of the most popular on these networks right now. And otherwise there are excellent networks... info or Freedom of information on which you can really get a tremendous amount of knowledge and data to avoid these misunderstandings. But let me focus on the report, not just the significance of the report. First of all, in this report one thing should be noticed immediately, Mr Vuksic warned of this, which is the fact that in the adoption of the law in 2004, we received warnings, and moreover it was one of the main things, that the flood of such requests would stifle the work of the public authorities and that it would deal only with these requirements. But if we take 2004 as the base year of the hundred index then already in 2008 we had only 13% of that number of requests. Therefore, after the first period of great interest, there was a certain decline, in order to improve the situation over the last two years when the index was 261 and 273. So in the last two years, we've had a big jump in those demands. It's not just a return of trust, it's a major boost in expectations of what openness the public authorities will be. Of course, all of this can be interpreted twice as you said as a warning, but also as a chance that there is a wake-up civil activist. But the same thing when we look at the complaints then we'll see that the number of complaints is also growing and that just over the last two years the increase is very significant. But that means it can be interpreted as actually one wrong practice, a poor state that exists can be interpreted as strong progress. I am inclined to take and interpret these two data together, which is the fact that we are only at the beginning of a long process of opening a public authority that begins with scandals, but which begins with understanding, with the awareness that the state should be led in the interests of the people's decision to make public, and the public authorities are not only public because they are open but also responsible. Let me get back to the report. I expressed my dissatisfaction with the methodology because there are other parallel reports that were previously carried out with previous reports on the application of this law that were more methodologically perfect and better. They gave better insight into what was going on. This way in this methodology is that we'll know how much the Red Cross has submitted to you, but it's a completely ineligible piece of information because what's relevant is whether we dare ask, for example. In which way the funds are spent. Here you are opening up in sports clubs or something, we haven't had enough success in that. I hope that the Commissioner, because this institution is also chosen because the situation is as described, will also be a person with enough dynamism to initiate and change such methodologies. I particularly warn of the fact that this report has again and every time pointed to greater closure of local self-government bodies, local authorities, compared to ministries. This is partly understandable because the ministries have a better professional service, but it also shows that there are probably large levels of dissatisfaction, the detention of the public authorities at local level. In conclusion, I'm going to comment on some more things. Why the issue of publicly owned companies and their public and openness must be reopened here. I understand when it comes to the competition that there is a notion of a business secret that almost always such ethnicities are called upon. But the fact is that the advance has what in this case we call our desire and the need to know what is going on and how public funds are being used. There can be neither censorship nor ban on why and where funds and money are spent. What we have introduced into the new law, which is a test of public interest and a test of proportionality, is one of the great things, major progress that is closely monitored in the international community. It will again need to prove the possibility of such a legal solution leading to a change in the logic of some of the services that have been shut down so far, especially in matters of spending and use of public money. I'll comment on two more things. One is a certain degree, I will call it dilettantism or lack of education on this issue which is not only solved by ad hoc.... It's just amazing that in those 10 years, we haven't been able to create a knowledge fund spread amongst all those involved in, say, state, law or administration, in which the question of the availability of information would be in their right context of openness and action, not subjective demand for people to get information. In some ways, this need, the desire for increased expertise, is also reflected in your conclusions. I have talked several times about the need for such reports to have one critical attitude, criticism here does not mean that what is wrong and what is the right thing to do is to point out what difficulties, but also what opportunities exist. I'm not quite happy with what I've read here about education because the question really is how, with all these attempts that we can consider a great effort, we don't have the results we'd expect. Here it takes something more, and then the media plays an extremely strong role, which is to expand knowledge of not only what rights, but what standards of law exist in this area. It's not a standard of law, let's just say that you can't get information about the travel expenses of an official or his watches if he remembers. There can be no secret information about the costs of, say, vehicles or fuel because it's all being paid from the state budget, and that's what we decide and we have the right to know not only the right but also the duty for those who do it to make it possible, without a great cost and a great deal of trouble, everyone gets to it. And the last thing in this thing that you've said normally is that you can complain that the lack of people and the lack of resources, so that's exactly the situation where the old one doesn't work anymore, and the new one hasn't started yet, but I want to warn and I want to say that we belong to the same category here that we've passed a modern law that promises that future reports will be critically intonated, but a better description of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39705	Thank you. Next on behalf of the SDSS club Mile Horvat. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39706	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The annual report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2012 will, in any case, be accepted by me and by my predecessors on behalf of our club, for two basic reasons if it is properly read and analysed by the report is very well done, statistically very equipped and can also be said in some parts very critically. So a very good critical reference to the realization of a project called the right to access information. So, this report of yours shows we're closing two things. First, we were absolutely right when we approached the adoption of a better quality legal solution a better way to regulate my own access to information. There were various discussions at the time. We all pointed to the need to access information, so access to information for all of us was also a strategic matter. That's, the information is capital for all of us. In addition, it is a category of fundamental human freedoms regulated and Article 38 of our Constitution, etc. etc. So, with this analysis, you've shown us a series of problems that have been seen in practice so far and that we need to take very seriously if we want this project with a new legal solution in life to come to terms with it. So, in one part of your report, you said that the problems in implementing that law during your period were, above all, not clear as to who the public authorities are, so you listed them as companies, sports associations, etc. We think it's a fundamental thing to implement, so it's a basis for implementing, quality implementation of this law because it has to be known who's legitimate to give a certain kind of information. The truth is that you have said, so that someone would be a body of public authority that must be cumulatively, two basic elements must be cumulatively fulfilled, and that is to say that their programmes are also established as public-interest programmes and that at least one part are financed from public budgets whether from the budget of the state or from the budget of regional or local self-government, which is a very logical thing and for us is completely acceptable. Obviously, many have not accepted it as an important fact to date. Even citizens, according to this report today, do not yet experience public authority bodies as addresses to report for certain information. The question arises whether in this case it is a complete lack of information from citizens or whether there is a certain lack of public confidence in the type of information that such bodies should provide. But it's another kind of debate again. You also said in your report that the associations that meet the requirements of this definition of public authority have not delivered reports, their reports on the implementation of legal obligations, so the question is clear as to how we could have acted irresponsiblely so far, so that we do not comply with our law of the prescribed obligation, or there is a lack of any sanction that would sanction such illegal behaviour. You said public authorities had to provide an information officer. They also need to get to know the public about this officer, which is just as logical. So it's a specific address that people have to report to. The question is whether or not to date and to what extent he has fulfilled his obligation. So, did he define within his service special officials who would deal only with it. I got even one interesting piece of information a few days ago where a man says it doesn't occur to me that I have a special man who's going to do just that kind of thing. So it's not a good relationship to this project that we're talking about today. The agency, according to your report, also has procedural problems in the work. The bodies of the public authority are not cooperative in delivering files and complaints to the Agency during this period of yours. Also, the prescribed deadlines are not respected. They point out, you've been giving them a couple of rushes. Unjustifiedly, therefore, this led to an unwarranted delay in the proceedings. In any case, this was about the damage done to the citizens by this process. So that thing wasn't sanctioned in the previous period either. The question is, was there even a model of sanctioning for such behavior? You also said that the agency notified the government of the Republic of Croatia that law enforcement had difficulties in working with the ministries and that because of the failure to comply with concrete agency solutions. This is where you even apostrophe especially the Ministry of Agriculture, then the Ministry of Justice, I think it's the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, etc. A very normal question arises as to how it is possible that the ministries may not comply with certain requirements within certain deadlines? Of course, how is it possible that even the Ministry of Justice does not act on your request, or according to their legal obligations, even though their first concern is to enforce the legality of the system? And most importantly, you said here what's most worrying is what's so-called. The silence of the administration as a big problem. The administration's silence in the administration is the most dangerous disease of an effective administration because it is a sign above all that the administration does not solve the cases within the prescribed deadlines or does not solve them at all, and then that magic formula is found if it is not responsible it is considered to have been accepted. Such a form of functioning of the state administration is, in any case, unacceptable. You've even said here that in the event of the administration's silence, you've even had to file indictments against certain bodies of public authority. The fact that these bodies were familiar with their obligations because the agencies were two years back in education and specifically alerted, or communicated with those bodies by public authorities. So, these reports of yours show that progress is in the interest of citizens to obtain information on a permanent basis. The total number of requests received according to what you said here for access to information in 2004 is 19 600 of these requests, while in 2012 it is 53 520 of such requests. So this is just a clue to what we want to say, which is that there is a certain positive movement, i.e. the awareness of people in terms of people and citizens, in terms of the need to get some information, for public access to certain information. And that's exactly what this is about, so we were right when we recently passed the amendments to the law when we claimed that a new legal solution would be improved. The newspaper, a Commissioner on whom there has been a lot of talk as a basic tool for implementing this law, is clearly shown to be the need to be also an advisory body to have a supervisory role, to have inspection supervision and to have breaking powers. What you have now stated in your report, so these negativity and phenomena that have in some way prevented law enforcement in your period in any case should be removed through this new legal text. We also think that by introducing certain stronger infringement provisions with high penalties for the denial of information, this law and the entire quality information accessibility project will help to be implemented as the legislator has and as there are certain social needs. Anyway, we'll accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39707	Thank you, too. The next one is on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club Boris Blazekovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39708	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Bilic. The HNS Club accepts the report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2012 submitted by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. The right to access information is the right established by the development of democratic states and regulated by a special law, so Croatia ranks in that order. In some countries, Croatia is also entitled to access information and constitutional law. In addition to the Croatian Constitution, the right to access information is also protected by the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. A report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2012 shall be submitted by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data as an independent body having the power to protect the right to access information in appeal proceedings in cases of the right to access information and to monitor the implementation of that law. Amendments to the law and the legal provision of 2011 to the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data shall be subject to supervision for the implementation of the Law on the right to access to information by a qualitative step in that basic human law. The amendment and addition of the Law on the right to access information from this year, along with other improvements, introduced the institution of the Commissioner for the Implementation of the Law on the right to access information. Under the law, every natural person and every legal person is a user of the right to information and has the right to obtain and request information. Users – citizens, businesses, civil society associations may request any information they possess, at their disposal or supervised by the public authority. As a rule, all information by public authorities is public well-being and must be made available to all. The public authorities shall be obliged to regularly publish information where there is no specific request. Access to information may only be limited in exceptional cases, in cases and in a manner prescribed by law in order to explain the duration of the limitation period to the right to access information. The means of public interest and proportionality may be suspended by the law prescribed for the publication of information publicly provided that the test establishes that there is an important public interest in the publication of the information. Based on the report we are discussing, it is evident that certain public authorities have yet to understand or have not accepted or are not teamed up to implement the Law on the right to access information. These are data that point to current problems in the implementation of the Law on the right to access information. Among other things, there are comments that obtaining sensitive, more complicated information remains too long and complicated a procedure. This could further jeopardise the human rights of citizens. There is a significant number of increases in information requirements in 2011 and 2012 compared to previous years. For example, in 2010, there were 12340 requests and in 2012. 53521 request. This suggests improving the legal framework, increasing the interest of users of information and certainly better informing users about the possibility of accessing information from public authorities to users of information. However, regardless of the significant increase mentioned, reading the report in question leads to the conclusion that, unfortunately, citizens and other users of the right to information are not fully aware of their constitutional law. Even more so, the public authorities are not sufficiently aware of their obligations under the Law on the right to access information. We at the HNS support the expressed desire, and we consider it a future obligation to make further efforts in information, education both for citizens and for other users of information rights and for further information and for the education of public authorities in their obligations to publish and provide information. The new Law on the right to access information requires all public authorities to cooperate with the Commissioner for the Implementation of the Law on the right to access information, i.e. with the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, and thus the Agency itself is able to work more efficiently, and citizens, other entities, their Constitution guarantees human rights. The report shows that additional staffing of the Agency is necessary to fulfil its purpose as an independent data protection body, and this report does not yet show the effects of a legal solution to the establishment of an independent body of the Commissioners for the Implementation of the Law and Access to Information Act has not yet been chosen. One of the real effects of the consumer implementation of the Law on the right to access information should be and should be to combat corruption. The greatest evil of one country is corruption. Corruption destroys the economy, creates distorted values, pushes to the surface of people, events and phenomena that symbolize quasi success, and it is about incompetent fraud and thieves, and devastating phenomena in society that promote the invaluability of fair life, systematic personal education, honest work and fair entrepreneurship. Corruption is created and can occur exclusively in the state, state institutions and state-related enterprises. There is a phenomenon that would survive in the extreme and survive simply forced to accept both numerous individuals and entrepreneurs of all kinds of activities. The right to access and information is one of the tools to combat this devastating evil. The real value of the right to access information is the responsible authority against those for whom it exists – citizens and citizens. Each government does the work entrusted to it by its citizens. Every institution and every administration serves the citizens. Therefore, anything treated from the budget, all businesses and anything paid by taxpayers and citizens and citizens as a service in public services and institutions and associations, as well as by citizens, must be subject to examination, questioning, evaluation and evaluation. Moreover, today's modern state leadership should be fully open to the public and to the citizens. Today's modern state needs to demystify as much as possible as possible there. Every modern government wants as much as possible to involve citizens in managing or deciding and adopting laws and regulations. As a result, every modern state promotes a strong development of civil society that is increasingly participating in all processes in the state and society. Contemporary state leadership is an open state that expects its citizens, allowing them to participate in all processes even after the elections, to question those for whom they have or have not voted. Contemporary state leadership allows its citizens to directly and indirectly assist in the development and promotion of the entire society. In this, citizens must feel comfortable and must feel that all state institutions are their institutions, that they have the full right to seek and demand from those who are currently in power to lead their country with increased attention, special care, and to care for institutions and the management of processes in the state and society. One of the tools that enables questioning, but also proper participation in government and state institutions is the Law on the right to access information. The annual report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information is an important part of the process of democracy, democratisation in society. As the most representative and political body of the Republic of Croatia, the Assembly has the right and obligation to know and warn about all failures and anomalies, especially in segments of human rights and civil liberties. This is also the aim of all reports, including the Annual Report on the Implementation of the Law on the right to access information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39709	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Sunčana Glavak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39710	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Director, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report from the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. We have already heard the bodies which have so far been responsible for implementing the Law on the right to access information, the law that it has had and will have, will enable and ensure that the Constitution of the guaranteed right to access information, as well as the right to re-use by the same natural and legal persons through the openness and public action of the public authority. Many times today we have heard freedom of information as well as the right to the availability of information owned by public authorities is one of the fundamental human rights which, apart from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, are also prescribed by the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Convention on Access to Information and many other international agreements. In accordance with the provisions of the law, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data has established that the Law Implementation Report is obliged to provide a minimum of 5432 legal persons, thus extending the circle of the obligors. It should be pointed out that law enforcement has shown that the legal definition whereby public authorities and legal entities whose programmes or actions are established as public interest are fully or partly financed from the state budget or from the budget of local units is far greater than that number, including numerous associations. The report unfortunately finds that those who meet the conditions and for these legal definitions have not delivered the Law Implementation Report so that today we cannot, in fact, be sure to claim whether they were open and transparent in their work, which is what this law should enable among other things. We also learn from the report that the stated legal obligation has not been carried out by more than 2800 public authorities, which is an increase of about 7% compared to a year earlier when it was executed by less than 50% of the public authority or 49%. The increase in the number of requests for access to information in 2011 from 53521 compared to 2010 when it was 51930 indicates an improvement in the legal framework, but shows or indicates that users of this information showed greater interest or that they finally knew how to request information. Regardless of the number of increases in the report's requirements, it certainly results in citizens still, but also other users, not being familiar with their constitutional law. So that's something we talk about on the occasion of every report, and we talked about and warned about it and when we passed the law, that is, when we agreed that instead of the agency, this task would be carried out by the Commissioner for Information, but I'll say something a little later. It is even more significant that neither the public authorities' bodies, therefore the bonds of the Law on the right to access information, are sufficiently familiar with the obligations arising from it. It's just... it's just... it's... it's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... There is another problem, and it is the classification of documents by the public administration body with a label of secrecy which unnecessarily hides data sometimes, sometimes unnecessarily, and creates the impression of manipulation and intransparentity. The report also shows that, in 431 cases, public authorities have denied information for the purpose of protection of personal data or for the purpose of classified information, and 1854 cases for other reasons, as stated. The protection of the right to access information is ensured in the appeal procedure before both the Agency and the administrative courts and the Agency received 480 complaints during 2012 from which 319 complaints relate to the so-called so-called ‘. "the silence of the administration", i.e. the failure of the public authority to decide on the application of the applicant within the prescribed time limits. The largest number of complaints made also referred to requests addressed to local and regional units, i.e. regional self-government. In the appeal proceedings, there was little knowledge of the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act at all stages of the procedure, starting with the making of a solution. It is also evident that the Director also states in his report that public authorities do not know enough legislation when, without grounds on legal grounds, such as the basis of a catalogue of information or official secrecy, which no longer exists. So the bodies of the public government, actually the director tells us that they don't know the law at all. We can work as hard as we want to get to the citizens, that they're asking for something, that we're looking for and eventually coming to the ground of the problem, which is that the public authorities or his services don't know the law at all and they're doing it completely wrong. I will warn this occasion and the difficulties that the agency has raised in the report, which are seen working with individual ministries, especially the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, or a new name. So these three ministries are specifically mentioned here and I think it's really absurd that the Justice Department is going deaf on some of these demands. Therefore, the Agency is not satisfied with the percentage of reports submitted. The Agency, i.e. against the Agency, has brought four lawsuits for the so-called "The silences of the administration." In the appeal proceedings, I would like to point out once again, there is little knowledge of the General Administrative Procedure Act. It is evident, the report said, that public authorities do not know enough laws. In 2012, the Agency also started education for body leaders, which we consider to be good, and we believe that this should continue because it is obvious that people do not know the law well, they do not know a job at all, and the agency also states in the report that they are witnessing an extremely high level of trust that the parties had in the work of the agency. And that is why I will only go back to the debate once again when we discussed the Commissioner for Information, so in this case we see that citizens or all those who were searchers of information have shown a high level of trust in the Agency, and on the other hand we did not want to give the same agency to continue its work but we want the Commissioner for Information to continue. The Commissioner for Information won't change anything by himself, I assure you. We'll see about that next year, or when he'll be on his new duty. We're wondering again why the agency was replaced by an information commissioner? Because it wasn't a problem at the agency, obviously it's also from this report, the law can be almost perfect, but if there's no one to implement it and it's obvious that our public authorities don't know how to enforce the law or don't know enough laws then we can call that person or person whatever we want, but the public authorities fact is ignoring the state agency, and I don't know why something would change that when that duty takes over the Commissioner for Information? The Croatian Democratic Community club will support this report. We consider him good, we consider him detailed enough. But here are all these warnings that we've given and what we've warned about when this intelligence is given into the hands of the Commissioner for Information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39711	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one came from Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39712	Thank you very much. I would say that this Annual report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2012 and submitted by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data which also cares about the implementation of the Law itself, or controls the availability of information whether they are given in accordance with the law or not, has made a strong step. This can only be seen from some examples here that are listed in the report itself. In earlier years, it was almost an exception that any objection or complaint would have been adopted. And most importantly, it seems to me that the Agency has recognized the distinction between two basic laws because when it comes to the implementation of the Law on the right to access information, then we must always keep in mind and the Data Protection Act. I'm saying this because often those who are obliged to provide this public information often don't give it because they don't want to give it away, they're just afraid of breaking the Personal Data Protection Act itself. And that's why exactly the Agency, the importance of the Agency, is the step that I think has penetrated into the essence of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Law itself on the right to access information. Often these two laws seem to have some kind of conflict between them or some kind of tension. However, it is only about that nature, and if we understand what is the essence of the law itself and the fundamental principle that citizens have the right to know and what to know, then the most available. That's the point, at the disposal of public funds then I think it's precisely the importance of this agency and its efforts that it appears to have paid off in this report. And as the report itself notes, significant progress will also be the appointment of the Commissioner for Information himself. So here are the main ones and I would say the main tools that have been incorporated into the law itself and which have made major improvements, which is to incorporate the test of public interest. And when those who are obliged to provide public information, and the Agency that controls it, therefore, sees that it is in fact, it is not about any administration but about one value assessment, and that value assessment can be given in a proper way only if it is said in the law of certain,... They know not only certain provisions but the very spirit of the law that is present in one law and in another. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, I think it's very important to point this out because earlier, it would have been enough if someone had classified their data and that he was and that he no longer had access, or any control was impossible. We now see how the Agency works to open that data, so the classic example was four years ago, five years ago, maybe a little less Justice Department, or the government when it concluded representation contracts and when there was a question here of individual representatives of how much it was paid to individual law firms, individual offices. We were given the answer that it was a business relationship between the government, between the state and that lawyer. It's not their private relationship. No one asked how much was paid, how much between two companies private or between two individuals. She was wondering exactly how money was spent and that once again raised the question here, and I think that on page 15 of that agency, that kind of behavior ends up. I would also say that some data really if you do not understand the essence of these two laws which are essentially the basis for providing public information may be private, but if it is in the context of the public then it is no longer a private nature but a public one. And that was also recognized by the agency here in this example of a competition for employment in a mere open university and where the short information was precisely so that personal data, so other than the name and last name, was one of the competitors simply so where it was spoken was questionable whether it was allowed to go out with the information the professional preparation was about. Of course, such information is a secret to itself, but if it is competing for a particular public place where other participants have the right to control whether everything has been carried out by competition, that is, by the rules of procedure, that information has become public. I'm not going to count it anymore, but I think it's fundamental that the Agency itself opened it. I'm saying that classified data is not being confused. But we also see how much it is possible to act in certain laws, or amendments to the law, that those who are obliged to provide such information often have, in fact not often, but almost always have the right to hide themselves by declaring something of a business secret or therefore classified data. As such cases will always come here at the end of the court of the agency itself, it might be good that wherever these concepts are, it is a business secret, which is a classified information, that no one who is obliged to provide such information tomorrow or to deny it by the basis of other provisions of the law does not decide. In that way, we would already be at the root of it, I would say, to overcome some misunderstandings, but this is how the agency itself acted in the present situation. So, I'd say it's still moving, and these are powerful shifts we've never seen before. Noting once again that the Law on the right to access information is a fundamental anti-corruption law. Therefore, the more information is public, but the more information available to the public, the public spending of funds will be all the opportunities, i.e. after and the trouble for someone else to behave in the root. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39713	Thank you, too. Next up for debate Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39714	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. And yet some segments I didn't discuss in the introduction, and I'm going to refer a little bit to what my colleagues mentioned, and we all agree on this report. One question is, what are 50% of the convictions or if we take the verdicts of the court and more than 50% of the public authorities do not report, or do not report to the Agency? So simply as the same public authorities are condemned in Croatia, all those who are financed by public money do not respect laws in other segments, other activities means many other laws. Let's say the minister, the chief or the head of the public firm because he doesn't comply with the laws would be automatically removed or if he were to carry a more difficult discipline or whatever you want, then it would certainly be this report that today's agency looks quite different. If the authorities of the local authorities who are far more secret than this report are far less public, far less public, and provide information to the public, then it would certainly look very different for the citizens. Then statistics when we talk about other laws would look completely different. We are absolutely certain that we are legally arranged land on paper, that we here in the Parliament, let's say, a while ago, a month and a half ago, a set of excellent laws was passed and it was unanimously in the Parliament. There was no one from the opposition who would say no, that's bad. Because the Justice Department did a really great job. But what it's worth is not a lot of respect for that law. That's the same thing with this, I stand for sanctions. Only sanctions can force those who are mandatory, so before we talked about this obligation of the authorities that are obliged to provide information, provide information. In fact, anything financed by public money should be available on one click. So we're not supposed to be looking for what we're going to mark, so we're going to be looking for something, so we're going to wait until some clerks have a good time, or when they find 15 minutes of free time to send the information the citizens are looking for. Everything that needs to be public, which is not a secret should be on the Internet, should be available to citizens and citizens should be used with all that is available to public authorities. We said sports companies that are funded by public money to the Ministry, the Government and this Parliament. So, from day one, the Labourists and my smallness have been pushing for it, so that the notorious lie is the one that appeared in the paper that I objected to publishing the salaries of parliamentary deputies. However, nowhere has it been said here in the Parliament but it is so written in the media, which is also another manipulation. But that's another occasion. And one of the questions someone asked from their colleagues, which is, is there a great mistrust of citizens with public authority? Why, if we compare the number of requests for information from public authorities, in Croatia and in some countries in an environment or much more democratic countries or those who enjoy democracy far longer, why are so few of these requirements? Well, that's why, one of us certainly didn't do some precise research, one of the reasons was to mistrust that government. The experience that when they asked for information, they didn't get that information. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39715	Thank you, too. And finally, I'm sorry, last reported for an individual hearing by Mirel Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39716	Thank you, Vice President. Well, at the very beginning of the presentation, I would like to say that I will support this year's report on the implementation of the Law on Access to Information for 2012 because, like most others who spoke before me, I believe that it is a quality document although it is a document on a slightly smaller number of pages than we have had the opportunity to read reports. I think the report is quite well structured, that it has included all the important facts that are important for the implementation of the Law on Access to Information and what is most important I believe that the Agency was quite objective in its assessment of the situation. And here it is, it is certainly seen by the fact that, compared to the previous year in 2011, when the agency had just taken over these tasks of the secondary authority, the number of requests has increased and against all public authorities for some 1500 requests. What I have little to admit concerns about the previous year, i.e. 2011 which was in 2012 despite the fact that another year had passed in which it could have been done much to inform those officials in public authorities dealing with information affairs, i.e. by providing information on the basis of the Law on the right to access information in certain order to reduce the groupings. So we have a smaller number of those who deliver their reports, public administration offices in the county, some counties, some cities, some municipalities, misdemeanor courts, public institutions for the management of nature parks, which I especially must admit surprised me and disturbed me, chambers, family centers and so forth. After I commended the agency in this part, and I want to say one more very important thing, I already talked about it yesterday during the discussion of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Mothers that the Ministry of Administration did a good job on the status rights of individuals and related to the Law on the right to access to information since the Agency actively participated in the drafting of this law I would like to commend the Agency for this very quality law done because it was indeed quite what it should look like here, all the interested parties listened, and I think that at the end of the second reading we had a really very good law on access to information. And what I am particularly pleased about is that we eventually decided on an institution of commissioners for which, ultimately, the SDP stood out all the time while we were in opposition and represents ultimately the realization of the pre-election promises set out in Plan 21. I think the agency could have done a little bit more about education and I think education should go the way it was eventually detected in your report to those officers who deal with information affairs, but I think you should have been a little bit more proactive in your media performance. I see that you have had an appearance in the media, and I don't know about the report itself and some other things, presenting certain activities that may be considered proactive, but I think that you should have gone towards the media a little more aggressive, especially towards public television, given that the Law on the right to access information is one of the fundamental instruments of fighting corruption but also the very democratisation and participation of actually citizens in the control of the public authority. I think that public television should have been included in a public campaign around this law and that the agency should have put pressure on it and that even public television should have done the campaign for free as a public service. I see you've been doing education to the public authorities, that's good. But we can see from the report ourselves that there are still a lot of misunderstandings from officials, but probably from the leaders of bodies that may be disabling in a certain part of the staff involved in this work to do their job properly. And I'm going to mention one specific example here. Since I was in 2012 so let's say half of the year of the head of one of the public authorities and since I worked on information affairs, I really cared very much that as much as possible to implement the Law on Access to Information and I asked all the officials in the ministry that when I received a certain inquiry where information was asked of them, regardless of whether this person called on the Law on Access to Information to respond to such a request and the person in charge of keeping an eye on it so that, at the end of the day, it would be recorded to me, even when I received e-mails from different and associations and at the end of the day, the interested persons who were interested and similarly relevant to the questions of them, regardless of which they mainly did not call on the Law on access to the information, and means the information officers who wrote it in the eyewitness. And, of course, that's how the number of requests received grew, but I had been obstructed by officials, no matter what I asked as head of the ministry for it, they all considered it unnecessary harassment. So there's a very, very big room for improvement. I think that we should also work towards the leaders of the public authority and agree with counterpart Branko Vuksic that it may also be necessary to consider sanctions that will not only be financial in nature, but will be if someone eclatively violates the Law on the right to access information and it is extremely important that the law be changed by the head of such a body because it is indeed a very important instrument for the control of public authority. And for example, I think there's still a certain misunderstanding about how to deal with information, and I'm going to mention a specific example here. Namely, environmental protection inspection led one of the items related to the city of Varazdin and the disposal of waste at that disputed illegal dump and the municipal enterprise sent a document to the city of Varazdin, which was also carried out by the Environmental Protection Inspectorate because that document had been put in place in the process. The interested party requested information from the city of Varazdin and the municipal company and they denied that information and then the interested party also addressed the Ministry of Environmental Protection, i.e. the Environmental Protection Inspectorate, given the fact that they had received information that the Ministry had owned the document. And I have to admit that this situation was enough to say unusually because the ministry was owned by that document, but it wasn't owned by that document, and the process wasn't closed. And I think that we finally gave up that document, but I'm saying that maybe we should do more work to define exactly what information is in the possession, or how it should define information that is owned or owned or available to the public authority in order to bring about as little breach as possible of the law on access to information. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39717	Thank you. We have one replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39718	Well, I only wish that when you referred to your colleague Holly that Croatian broadcasting should have been included in the campaign on the right to access information, I fully agree with you, as in many public campaigns, Croatian broadcasting should be included, not because of this, but instead of broadcasting Turkish soap operas. However, even greater irony is the Croatian Radio Television when the Committee on Information, Information and Media asks that the public be made available salaries financed by public money then we get the answer that it is a business secret. So here is how much about how interested Croatian broadcasting is to represent the interests of the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39719	Thank you. Answer, colleague Holly, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39720	So I think that this situation would change if the leaders of the public authorities were to be replaced if they did not comply, that is to say, worry about the implementation of the Law on the right to access information. But since it may be a rather drastic step, it might also help if not perhaps in these documents that we receive in the House because it would be too much to say, but to be published on the web pages of the future Commissioner by saying a list of shame, a black list of all those bodies of public authorities who have deafened to the delivery of reports or those that have been recorded as going towards the second-degree body the largest number so as to say the application and against some public authorities because they are not acting in accordance with the Law on the right to access information, so let's see if then maybe something changes. And, of course, a white list, or a list of those who do their job well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39721	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank the director of the agency, Mr. Dubravk Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39722	Annual report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2012. The debate on the report is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "A annual report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2012. A year.". Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the vote is 111 for and 1 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39723	We continue with - a)A proposal for a strategy for the development of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia 2013-2022. - b)Proposed programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2013-2017. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the suggestions in the boxes. In the case of the adoption of these acts, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You've received reports. Minister Zeljko Jovanovic is also with us. Here you go, Minister, intro.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39724	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Very short. We have two documents that are very important for the preparation of all activities concerning any segment of work in the Republic of Croatia, which are the Strategy for the Development of Official Statistics of the Republic of Croatia from 2013 to 2017 and according to the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for the same period. It should be said that this is another strategy. The first reference was to the period 2014, 2012. The objectives defined by this strategy have been significantly achieved, so the Croatian statistical system has successfully adapted to the quality and number of statistical research requirements. However, new and changed circumstances, as well as the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, require redefining of the statistical development objectives, thus showing the need to draw up this new strategy for the period from 2013 to 2022. The first reason, therefore, is a purely legal basis and a alignment with EU regulation, while at the same time as the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, the need to integrate new strategic European statistics documents into a national strategy which makes the Croatian statistical system part of the European statistical system and thereby implies changes in the role of official statistics from national statistics in European statistics. With this legal basis, certain professional, or statistical reasons should be highlighted. Therefore, the strategic objectives of the 2012 strategy were primarily related to the introduction of new research into the Croatian statistical system due to its alignment with EUROSTAT requirements, while the emphasis will be on increasing data quality and timeliness in the period from 2013 to 2022. At the same time, the development of a new programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia starting from the new strategic objectives defined in the strategy, but at the same time in line with the European programme of statistical activities for the period 2013, 2017. Some of the basic principles on the basis of which the development, production and administration of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia are as follows: professional independence, impartiality, objectivity, reliability, statistical confidentiality, and cost efficiency or rationality. The programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia shall be developed for a period which is identical to the periods set out in the European statistical programmes, i.e. for the period 2013-2017. It is based on the needs of users, but also on European requirements defined within strategic documents. The programme shall include a review of the development objectives of official statistics in accordance with the strategy, a review of the main results of official statistics to be produced and distributed in each area, the name of the responsible holders of official statistics and the name of the owners of administrative data sources. What I would particularly like to emphasise in the preparation that the State Statistics Institute has conducted for the first time and an Internet public debate on the draft proposals and strategies and programmes, and the purpose and purpose of the public debate have been to obtain the opinion of the interested public, to include all users in the drafting of documents. All comments, comments and suggestions have been carefully examined and included in the draft document proposals. This is what the annual plan comes from. I am sorry that at the same time today, we do not have the document adopted by the government, which precisely sets out our targets for next year, and all the funds are secured in the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39725	Thank you very much, Minister. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, colleague Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39726	Dear vice presidents, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In the last decade, labour productivity has increased, industrial production has dropped, the number of employees in the total population has dropped. In 4 decades, so from 1961 to 2001 the total population grew, the average age increased by 7 years, the life expectancy increased from 64 to 71 for men, from 69 to 78 for women. The proportion of illiterates decreased by more than six times, for decades we have a negative natural increase, and each third marriage falls apart. I'm talking about trends. In 2001 a census was conducted, and as there was a change in the statistical definition of the total population, data with the 2001 census cannot be directly compared but it is visible: the average age in the Republic of Croatia is 41.7 years, members of the Roma national minority are on average the youngest at about 22 years of age. The oldest Slovenians are about 60 years old. Although in Croatia we have more women 51.8% versus 48.2% of men women are older, more male children are born. As a nation, we are classified as one of the oldest in Europe. Not because we've been here since the seventh century, but because on average we're about 42 years old, like Turks who are on average 29.3 or Kosovars who are on average 26 years old and therefore have certain comparative advantages, which is why we consider them pro-pulsive and prosperous nations in terms of the development of a country that they can handle. Regionally looking at the oldest are the Libyans, and the youngest are residents of Međimurje and Vukovar-Srijem County. We have more than 65-year-olds than 14-year-olds. That's worrying, I think we can all agree. Almost in the last 60 years, the number of women in the reproductive period has decreased by almost 10%. If we look at other available social statistics, it will be evident that the number of immigrants is decreasing and the number of people moving out of the country is increasing. After divorce in 80% of cases, the mother takes care of the children together. The average age of the mother is growing during the first birth, marriages are coming together later. The infant mortality rate is getting less and less than the number of abortions. We usually die of cardio and cerebrovascular diseases and cancer. About 14% of the population until 64 years of age are people with disabilities. In higher schools we have more women than men and there are more women and among those who have won a degree in higher education. Women are less paid, they have fewer pensions. More is the share of women among the unemployed. It's a statistic, it's not a fam or a myth. Traffic from retail trade, agricultural price indices, price indices of construction material, consumer price indices, number of persons employed in free professions, tourism data, border traffic, number of kindergartens, exchange of goods with abroad, number of crimes committed at random number of areas all of these data can be obtained on a monthly basis, quarterlyly, annually. We can process, analyze, interpret that data, and some people can manipulate it from this phone booth right here. It's important, though, that we have them. Based on these we can discuss the state of the nation, it is necessary to have them in order to formulate public policies, population, demographic, economic, social, cultural. We are entering the EU on 1 July this year. We will participate in the development, planning, implementation and evaluation of EU policies. The Croatian statistical system becomes part of the European statistical system which implies and changes its role. This implies both improvement and harmonisation with EU legislation and standards, and although this plan has already been done so far in view of the previous strategy, it is therefore necessary to make the next shifts over the next 10 years in order to integrate it into the European statistical system and to allow comparison of data with data from EU Member States. Also, priorities need to be redefined. In line with some basic EU documents such as the 20/20 Strategy or the Stability and Growth Agreement, it is necessary to ensure that statistics are available and that we can manage the economy, or measure the effects of our economic policy. Additional indicators should be introduced that link economic trends with different aspects of globalisation, quality of life, environmental protection, population welfare, health conditions or social cohesion. The government's task and the Parliament's task is to create conditions, so the creation of a climate to improve the living conditions of the population but, above all, to develop some policies at all, it is necessary to have data. Therefore, it is necessary to monitor the social and health picture of the population, in particular the picture of the most vulnerable groups of citizens. This is precisely why the SDP club supports the announcement of an additional statistical monitoring of existing data on the labour market, on education, culture, research and development, innovation, health, personal consumption, income distribution inequalities, poverty, social cohesion and social protection. Speaking of quality and pooling of statistics I use this opportunity to point out that one of the best publications published by the DZS is just a publication of women and men in the Republic of Croatia which has been published for the last eight years. It is from this publication that we can see where the data are so selected and classified that they are clear in themselves without further analysis and interpretation, and it is precisely from them that it is fully evident who is the sub-represented sex or which is the most vulnerable and socially most favoured group of the population in relation to the most pronounced risk of poverty. That is why birth statistics are necessary to improve and make population projections towards age and gender and it is good that the strategy emphasizes this. In the context of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, various psychological fears arise, therefore, from the fact that our population will be particularly highly educated in eviction so that there will be brain drains or that foreigners will move in. All of this needs to find adequate answers, i.e. to put together adequate policies, and that is why we need statistics on specific migration statistics. This is precisely what the strategy includes, as it is announced to improve data on migration statistics from general to specific rates and to migration towards age and gender. All the data we're talking about is for users. It is therefore necessary to strengthen cooperation with domestic and foreign data users in order to better identify their needs, extend the circle of users and to strengthen the awareness that official statistics are a fundamental source of reliable and timely data but also has limitations. It is necessary to apply new information technologies both in the dissemination and distribution of these data and to ensure their confidentiality. All this strategy includes and predicts. The DZS is undoubtedly identified as an impartial and objective institution. Given the announcement that the Ministry of Finance, and in line with EUROSTAT recommendations, will assume the role of the holder of a fiscal report and will introduce regular collection of data on trade between EU Member States and trade between Croatia and third countries, so that this should be taken over from the Ministry of Finance and Customs Administration, it should be kept in mind that both staff and financial transitions are successful and recognizable. And the last thing that I would single out but it is extremely important, is that the strategy announces the provision of reliable data to which we will be used to determine our own funds for the EU budget, hence charging it from gross national income and VAT, and we will get the information needed to determine the amount of payments from our budget to the EU budget when it comes to participating in structural funds. Finally, the main task of the statistical system is effective and timely preparation and dissemination of quality statistical indicators reflecting economic and social phenomena and processes and providing users with a reliable source of analysis of existing states and decision-making. In the SDP club, we believe that this proposal for a development strategy and a proposal for a statistical activity programme by 2017 will ensure this. We therefore support both proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39727	Thank you very much. On behalf of HDZ representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39728	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a strategy for developing official statistics from 2013 to 2022 as well as a proposal for a programme of statistical activities from 2013 to 2017 will support the HDZ Club. Namely, the development of the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia and the annual implementation plan should be based on the strategy, and so far ends in 2012. It is also necessary to comply with European legislation, and to introduce new objectives and requirements in line with the new changed circumstances. All this will allow for comparison of the statistics of the Republic of Croatia with the data of EU member states. The statistical development strategy can be praised and should indeed be pursued in this direction to improve the quality and relevance of data, as well as timely publication of results and discharge of reporting units. However, the strategy is all in general, so details cannot be seen. What can be noticed is that this strategy will also make the county level, despite its quality work, reach a certain technical surplus, and the one who remains an employee in the district unit will be doing field and this survey Better wages and sophisticated jobs are concentrated in Zagreb. The role of employees in business units in the counties will change in the process of using new technological solutions they will collect data as professional respondents with a higher or high school. Doesn't it say anything about the VSS thing? Do these jobs get lost? Changes will take place in the method of data processing and publication. There should no longer be any different interpretations of them. Lately, unfortunately, bad state indicators in the country. And as a colleague in mathematics 2 and 2 said, 4 can never be 3 or 5, although we all like to read numbers in our favor, so sometimes the glass will be half-empty and sometimes half-full, but we believe that this new methodology will contribute to the same attitudes and opinions on indicators. It will be interesting then to see and to compare internationally standardised information on social economic developments in Croatia. What is certainly missing in these proposals is not a negligible factor in the implementation of this Strategy and the programme, in fact, and probably the most significant sure funding. The financial resources needed to implement this programme are nowhere to stand. Now our statistical offices are poorly equipped and not connected. And for the equipment, connecting and training of employees, there is a need for certain and not small funds. It is unfortunate that we still had a census in 2011 and we still do not have information about the activity of the population or the conditions in which our citizens live. These data change every day so they're already very different so I don't see the purpose of that collection and processing this much time later. This Proposal for a Strategy for the Development of Official Statistics and the programme of statistical activities is correctly and professionally developed and the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support these proposals. However, what is much more interested in our citizens and concerns are data that the statistics of the Republic of Croatia recorded, which is now 21.6%, while in December 2011, when this government took over the government was 13.9%. Of the 238,000, we've now climbed 355,000 unemployed. The national statistical office shall record the consumer price index. Well, it says that the price of fuel, electricity and gas has increased 20% in a year. Yesterday we have a new card coming in and a new collection of electricity prices has been announced after entering the European Union. On the grounds that some members are, for example, The Czech electricity price has doubled since its entry into the European Union. We are wondering whether, in the next period when indicators are compared to the Member States, the unemployment rate will be closer to the European average of 10.8%. We can't get too excited that we can get close to Austria with 4.9 or all of us leading to a situation where Spain, Portugal or Greece is 27% unemployed. From this, we ask you, and this time we ask you to do everything you can to record our Statistical Office as positive as possible in the next period and not to be at the beginning of the tables as a bad example as Greece, which we are getting closer from day to day.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39729	Thank you. On behalf of the HSU Club, colleague Zeljko Schamper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39730	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The current strategy for the development of official statistics referred to the period 2004 to 2012. In order to develop the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia under the Official Statistics Act and the annual implementation plan should be developed a new strategy which is now ahead of us for the period 2013-2022. It was intended to implement, i.e. to comply with European legislation, as well as introduce new objectives and requirements in line with new circumstances. Given the recent entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia, particular emphasis is needed on the integration of the statistical system of the Republic of Croatia into the European statistical system and to allow for the comparability of statistical data with the data of other members of the European Union. Our National Statistics Office is the main representative of the statistical system in front of the European authorities responsible for statistics and must be the source of all and comparable data in the Republic of Croatia with those on other members of the European Union. I therefore believe that there will no longer be the use of different methodologies for calculating data in the area of macro-economy by individual institutions in the Republic of Croatia, but the best international experience in data collection, processing and publication will be used for our citizens and institutions. Official statistics are important not only in Croatian but also in international contexts because it allows comparison with other EU Member States. The law on official statistics determines the principles of statistics such as independence, impartiality, objectivity. And it's especially important to have trust that needs to be true and accurately reflect the real state and not to be according to the definition that people sometimes say statistics is the exact number of incorrect data. This Strategy is defined by the vision of the State Statistics Institute of the Republic of Croatia, which, with the efficiency and application of modern technologies, foresees orientation to the user. I hope that the new Strategy and the Proposal for a programme of statistical activities in the next period will provide us with new information that we have not had so far. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For our citizens, especially for pensioners, comparable information is interesting about pension ratios and salaries of employees and pensioners, the rates of contributions to health and pension insurance, ways of harmonising pensions in the Republic of Croatia and members of the European Union. In our pensioners, the principle of reliability that speaks of the truthfulness and accuracy of the data is particularly questionable. In particular, this has been expressed in the last five years of the economic crisis when data from the Croatian Institute of Statistics on the growth of the wage index and consumer prices are closely monitored which are the main elements for calculating the percentage of pension harmonisation. For example, the biggest suspicion at a time of significant rise in gas prices, electricity, food, energy is causing information on a consumer price index of only 2.1% in the second half of last year. As a result, the role of the State Statistics Institute is important for citizens to present certain information and how it happened. Also, after the end of each tourist season, the model for the calculation of annual tourism revenues in the Republic of Croatia is often discussed, and I hope that the best European experiences and the same model will be applied in the coming period for all EU Member States. This proposed strategy is one of the strategic objectives of demographic and social statistics, which states that the main objective of the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union is to increase the well-being and living conditions of the population. In order to monitor these results, it is necessary to improve social statistics that are important to monitor changes in social and health protection of the most vulnerable categories of the population. EUROSTAT has defined social indicators to monitor the country's progress, such as the income and expenditure of the population for personal consumption, the problem of poverty with indicators of the economic activity of the population, on health, education and housing conditions. From this strategy we see that the Croatian statistical system is facing major challenges and needs for increasing statistical indicators with increased financial efficiency. For this reason, it is very important to develop modern methods of data collection and processing as well as to increase the cooperation of all participants in the statistical system in the Republic of Croatia. Although we have been satisfied with the use of the statistical system at the head of the State Statistics Institute, we now expect a number of new comparable information from the members of the European Union in order to see where we are on a scale of all European Union countries after this new strategy 2013-2022. In view of all of the above, the Club of Representatives of the HSU will support the proposal for a strategy and programme of statistical activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39731	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HNS club, colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39732	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will therefore support the proposal for a strategy for developing official statistics of the Republic of Croatia on 2013-2022 and the proposal for a programme of statistical activities. Of course, we are glad that all the clubs, colleagues and colleagues who spoke, they also support them because these documents were really high-qualityly prepared and made, but it should also be said that so far official statistics in the Republic of Croatia have done their part of the job well. Of course, this does not mean that there were no shortcomings, not that there have sometimes been certain failures, not only of course in the processing of the population list, which is already spoken of from this pay phone, but in general in certain or up-to-date. Because what is crucial in statistics for all those who use it not only for analytical purposes but especially for decision-making needs to be comparable and efficient as possible, and in order to be able to have this data available as soon as possible to process it. Therefore, the very fact that all data is available through all those other than the main holder, that is, the State Statistics Institute, should provide data to the public, it is important that these data be except for the normal accuracy and regularity and independence of the analysis, it is important to be available as soon as possible, especially in these new times in which Croatia enters the European Union in order to make decisions as high as possible for all those who, in particular for the economic segment, can be used quality and proposals and instruments and measures. What is not said in this introductory section, and this should be pointed out, most often we all talk about the State Statistics Institute as the main holder, but I would like to remind the public specifically that other than the State Statistics Office as a central body there are still administrative bodies of the City of Zagreb responsible for official statistics and the CNB as part of this system and other authorised bodies of official statistics that are designated by the programme of these statistical activities. So on behalf of the HNS Club, we support these two documents, and once again, we stress that the up-to-dateness of the analysis and giving of all future data and the comparability with the data that will be at European Union level is crucial to obtain the most usefulness of these data to be able to be all those needed to make quality decisions in a timely manner. That debate, which is the same, is the model of the calculation of certain data, has often appeared in the public, indicating that they are not identical and that they come from different institutions. I think it is clear to everyone at this point and it must be clear to them that only the official data based on these proposals of the strategy, namely the programme of statistical activities, and key to those who are holders of official activities are the only correct data based on which decisions are made not only on which I have spoken but on the data that are comparable. And all other analysts are not correct, and often we have the opportunity to hear them over, not just through the media, but through the media they are used to spread certain information that is essentially not correct and then, of course, there is confusion and what is worst that the data that are not real, which are not official, are used for some further analysis. I will not, of course, talk about political implications when using such unofficial data made according to models that are not official. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39733	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the proposals tomorrow. And tomorrow at 9.30 we'll start with the 2012 Legal Assistance and Spending Report. Thank you very much, goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-23-0.u39734	Proposal for a Strategy for the Development of Official Statistics of the Republic of Croatia 2013-2022. And a proposal for a programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2013-2017. The debate on proposals is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a strategy. Please make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I note that most 107 votes for and 5 abstentions have been adopted The Strategy for the Development of Official Statistics of the Republic of Croatia on the year 2013-2022 in the text proposed by the Proposer. I am voting on the Proposal for a programme of statistical activities and I would like to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 110 votes for and 2 abstentions have been adopted The programme of statistical activity of the Republic of Croatia in 2013-2017 in the text as proposed by the applicant.
