ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63179	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. On 10 July 2013, a group of MPs sent the Croatian Assembly an initiative to change the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in a section relating to the abolition of the age for serious murders committed from political initiatives. On the basis of this initiative and after the government's adopted opinion, following discussions held at the parliamentary committees and plenary session, the Croatian Parliament of 25 June 2013 decided to join the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Based on that decision, and in accordance with the conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, a working group was formed to draft a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The above working group was formed in such a way that representatives of all clubs of representatives working in the Croatian Assembly were represented, whether from the order of the position or opposition, and the task was to find common solutions and to formulate a harmonised proposal for the establishment of a draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, taking into account all proposals highlighted by parliamentary representatives and members of the parliamentary committees during the debates and other proposals that arrived before the work group started. The Working Party ended its work on 19 November 2013 and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system submitted a proposal to determine the draft amendments to the Constitution. On 21st November 2013, the Committee adopted a decision to open a public debate and then held a thematic session on the proposed amendment of the Constitution. Following the end of the public debate, and taking into account the proposals made by the Constitution Committee, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament on the 55th session held on 9 December 2013 unanimously established and referred to the parliamentary procedure of this proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on which we will discuss today. Allow me to present in the follow-up to this presentation a proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution. This amendment of the Republic of Croatia provides for the abolition of the statutes of limitation for the crimes of serious murders, and provides for that suspension to apply to those offences for which the statute of limitations has already taken place. We believe that such a change is necessary in order to ensure in our legal system that the perpetrator of serious murder is punished as one of the most serious crimes known to our legislation, and to enable the initiation of criminal proceedings and those offences for which the statute of limitations has already taken place. This does not add new or new crimes to our system, but we only define that for a certain, but the existing criminal offence does not have a statute of limitations. This change is necessary for a number of reasons, but primarily because of pythetics against victims of unprocessed crimes, and therefore because of meeting the principle of justice as one of the highest moral principles that will guarantee the punishment and those perpetrators of criminal offences for which there was no political or other will at some point. The age of prosecution is not and must not be the privilege of those perpetrators of criminal offences which the State for any reason could not or intended to prosecute at certain times. This way, it's deprived of any ideologies. A heavy murder that is sanctioned doesn't have to have a political omen to process it and it has to be sanctioned anyway, and not only when it's committed by a certain group of people that, for this reason or for that reason, we want to highlight or demonize. As the extension of the limitation deadlines through the amendment of the Penal Code is possible only for those limitation deadlines which are still ongoing, it was necessary to intervene precisely in the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and thus ensure the punishment and those perpetrators who have successfully escaped the system so far. These amendments also propose a precise arrangement and determination of all constitutional laws other than the Constitutional Court Constitutional Law, which has always been so arranged that any law called constitutional must be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down for the amendment of the Constitution. Such a procedure will be mandatory for the laws relating to the Constitutional Court, the implementation of the Constitution and the rights of national minorities, and optional for all those other laws which we consider to be subject to the adoption of them for particularly justified reasons in the form of the Constitutional Law. In fact, throughout history, we've passed a whole series of laws called constitutional laws. For example, the Constitutional Law on the temporary prevention of the President of the Republic of Croatia to carry out its duties, the Constitutional Law on the Cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with the International Criminal Court or the Constitutional Law on the provisional non-application of certain provisions of the Constitutional Law on Human Rights and Freedoms and on the rights of ethnic and national communities or minorities in the Republic of Croatia, and that we did not have a clear provision in the Constitution when such laws are to be passed and what are the preconditions for the application of the term constitutional law. It will now be clear that only one law adopted under the procedure for amending the Constitution and which has received the support of 2/3 of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament can be called constitutionally. The next amendment concerns amendments to the provisions relating to how the meeting of the Assembly is convened and so on. Constitutional break in the work of the Parliament. It is proposed to make clear that all Parliament meetings, regardless of when they are held, are convened by the same procedure in a manner called by the President of the Parliament, and that the President of the Parliament is obliged to do so when it is requested by the President of the Republic, the Government or 1/3 MPs. In order to allow for the creation of a legislative framework for decentralisation, the regionalisation of the Republic of Croatia, and as remained the political objective of most political parties represented in the Croatian Parliament, this proposal proposes to delete the term of regional self-government and to introduce a clear and unequivocal term of regional self-government, while establishing that units of regional self-government are county and region. The area of the county and the region, i.e. the list and number of units to be called regions or counties, their powers and the financial resources at their disposal will be regulated by a special law, but this change seems the first step towards creating the regionalisation of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the final change of the Constitution represents a change in the normative framework for the regulation of the referendum system in the Republic of Croatia. I would like to remind you, as early as 2010, the Constitutional Court stated that the current constitutional and legislative regulation of the referendum does not provide satisfactory legal certainty for addressees, since I quote: it does not provide for pre-prescripted legal rules which are general, predictable and for their addresses certain as regards the legal consequences that arise. In such circumstances, it was necessary to approach the regulation of a normative framework of referendums which could not be implemented without amending the Constitution itself by amending the Law on Referendum. This proposal proposes the following amendments to the referendum in this respect. The number of signatures required to call a referendum on the basis of citizens' demands is reduced to 200,000 signatures. It is prescribed that the referendum cannot be called on issues relating to the restriction or reduction of human rights and fundamental freedoms contained in Chapters 2 and 3 of the Constitution, to obligations arising from international contracts, other than confirmation, cancellation or withdrawal from those Treaties, to the adoption and execution of the budget and tax system, to defence and national security, and to issues relating to elections and appointments in the part of the Croatian Parliament. The majority required to make decisions in a referendum is prescribed in such a way that a change of the Constitution or decision requiring a 2/3 majority vote of all MPs will require more than 50% of the total number of voters enrolled in the voter list for the referendum, to make a decision requiring a majority of the votes of all MPs more than 40% of the total number of voters, and to make other decisions more than 25% of the total number of voters enrolled in the voter list for the referendum, provided that most of the total voters who joined the referendum are thus reached. We believe that this will ensure that the referendum remains an effective way of deciding and becomes a corrective and complementary body as a decision-maker, that it will ensure that the referendum represents the real will of the citizens, but also that it will ensure that through the Institute of the Referendum those initiatives that violate the democratic character of our country are not allowed. However, the arrangement of the referendum system will not be over. The opinion is the working group of the Constitutional Committee, but also my personal opinion that it is necessary to amend both the Constitutional and the Constitutional Court Act in a way to ensure that the Constitutional Court examines the referendum issue in any case before the beginning of the signing. It is necessary to regulate the Law on Referendum in a way that regulates how to collect signatures, primarily through editing places and how to collect these signatures. It is necessary to regulate the laws on pre-election promotion financing in order to prevent those who are organised to advocate a referendum or are organised against it, can hide financial resources, their sources and the way of consumption, as has been the case so far. In short, it is necessary to re-arrange the entire referendum system in the Republic of Croatia in order for it to meet its purpose to expand rather than suppress democracy. If the Parliament accepts these amendments, and I hope it will, they will enter into force on the date of the declaration, except for that provision concerning the abolition of the age of serious murders that would take effect on 1 January 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63180	Thank you too, dear colleague. Now we're going to the replica set. Dear Vice President of the House Željko Reiner, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I guess I'm not gonna talk about the metrics, that's gonna be a lot of speeches later. I'd say something about how to make these changes. So it seems that we will again have one Christmas Constitution or amendment of the Constitution, unfortunately completely different from that of the first Christmas Constitution. Instead of the Constitution being I would say in some way celebrating democracy, this constitution will be the twilight of democracy. The fact is one, that it is brought in a completely different way, with incredible ease and ease, and a man could only be sad by comparing Christmas constitutions. Instead of having the highest act of the state brought on the basis of a months-long debate, to hold round tables, to consult top experts, legal experts, constitutional experts, university professors, law schools in Croatia, HAZU, a wide range of interested citizens... /The speaker excluded./..., instead we have a situation that one constituency working group in which some members are fully unqualified, of course legally, without any consultation with the profession, with a wide range of I would have told the public that it was then that the debate was organised online only within a week and then on a two-week notice. It is certainly not what should be a celebration of democracy. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63182	Thank you very much. A new replica, a respected representative of Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63183	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, colleague of the coat of arms. We all know, we are not fools that this change in the Constitution is motivated and performed only because one man would not surrender to Germany. Everything else is fog that can escape... and unnecessarily harassing Croatian peoples, states and parliaments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I wouldn't be talking about it right now, and I wouldn't be getting into it right now. But since we're changing the Parliament, that is, when we're changing the Constitution, and maybe we should, the Parliament, too, but since we're changing the Constitution, I consider my contribution to these amendments to the Constitution that we need to change the preamble of the Constitution in a way that is completely deleted and that is to be thrown out of the OBLIGN. HE should be expelled from the Constitution for it is the cover of all the crimes committed by the communist nomenclature. In that preamble, we ourselves say that at the historic turning point, we have rejected the communist system. Therefore, the preamble should be expelled. It is the only way to detitize Croatia and get out of dictatorship because otherwise our generations will have to do what is happening today in the main square in Kiev. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63184	Thank you, too. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63185	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's the preamble, you see we did some consulting, we had a working group. One of the first working group sessions was dedicated to the preamble to the Constitution. And unanimously all members of the working group, including representatives of your party, have concluded that it is well written, quality written, to paint the history of the Republic of Croatia, to paint its democratic order, its anti-fascist commitment and not to change it. And there's an answer to what your colleague used to say. This is what we've all been discussing together, this is what we've been working on. This is what some experts came by, for example, Professor Podolnjak, Professor Baric, and pointed out what's good, what's bad. And what's good in this constitution is certainly this preamble. And if what you mentioned in history hadn't happened to me sitting here today, they wouldn't be speaking Croatian, they'd be speaking some foreign occupation language. And that's why it doesn't have to be thrown out. And remember, remember who left your Split to foreign occupiers and who returned it to the Matica Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63186	Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar, his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must conclude that a colleague of the coat of arms spoke much more rationally in reply to replicas than he spoke on behalf of the motionary text of constitutional changes. I'd like to replicate his speech for the next one. We did not participate in making this text out of clearly expressed views and proceedings that we opposed when this text was established. Therefore, this text was adopted by a majority of the votes of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and the replica relates to what, one part, a small part of what the chairman of the Committee spoke about. And since you don't value the documents when they bring them up, the arguments when they are brought up by members of the Croatian Democratic Community. I'll tell you in this replica to use the opinion of some others. In this particular case, the Venice Commission let me quote. It's a similar case when Hungary was changing its constitution. That's when the Venice Commission concluded. The Commission has never denied parliament's sovereign right to adopt the constitution or to amend it, but has criticised the procedure and methods that it seemed to be. The country's constitution must ensure awareness of constitutionalism in society, the awareness that it is truly a fundamental document, not simply a random political declaration. Therefore, the way it is adopted and the way it is implemented must create in society the belief that, by its very nature, the Constitution is a stable act which is not subject to an easy change due to the drop of the current majority. The duration of the Constitution must not be based solely on arithmetic thinking. [[/Intruder President: Thank you very much. Finish up.]] Time does not allow me to read you this quote to the end, but use this text.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63188	There will be opportunities for a respected representative all day long and more if necessary. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63189	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of the Mlakar I'll disappoint you. This text was adopted unanimously by all those committee members who wanted to participate in the Committee's work and who wanted to discuss this text. For example, they were not just parliamentary representatives, they were professors at the Faculty of Political Sciences, they were representatives of the Civil Society Association. And this text wasn't brought overnight. The procedure, as I said in my debate, began in July. Since then, we have held a dozen meetings of the Constitution Committee. We held seven working group sessions, they were all public, everything was open to the public. We never closed the sessions. All records are available online. We've held online counseling. In addition, you received over a hundred pages of comments, suggestions and suggestions, many of which were adopted. We consulted with the unions, with civil society associations, we talked to everyone who wanted to participate, who wanted to contribute. We tried to talk to you, but we couldn't. And do you know why? Because you've been deaf, because from day one you've decided to obstruct and say this is wrong, and that's not the case. I hope, I do not know whether we will adopt this text of the Constitution, we will see this after this debate, we will see after several votes in the Croatian Parliament but this Constitution will not bring the ruling majority, this Constitution will bring at least 2/3 of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and those 2/3 who have worked, cooperated and in these six months have done something that will be good for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63190	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Bačić and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63191	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Reiner's former vice president spoke about how inappropriate the brief and public debate in which we are bringing about changes to this Constitution. As he himself said, the adoption of the Constitution in a democratic procedure should be a holiday of democracy, and this democratic procedure in an important way determines the duration of the public debate. I don't understand why you, as a proposing representative, have raped a procedure like this with an inappropriately short public debate. The Constitutional Court also warned you about this, so I will read in its report that it considers it necessary to inform the Croatian Parliament that a decision to open a public debate sets out an unacceptable short period of public debate which could not be justified or claimed that a public debate will take place and after the Croatian Parliament determines the draft amendment of the Constitution in accordance with Article 137(2). The Constitution. In fact, it's inappropriate not to say that your claim is inconclusive that the public debate is open in July. A public debate can be opened, a quality public debate only when a draft amendment to the Constitution is established. Everything before that is a story and nothing else. On how unacceptable the short deadline for the public debate is best told by the fact that yesterday we were delivered to the bench to comment on the draft amendment of the Constitution by the president of the Republic of Croatia. If someone was to be involved in this public debate, if someone had to agree to a change in the Constitution or at least participate in it properly, then it is the President of the Republic. In his remarks, he pointed out such important changes to the proposed amendments to the Constitution that within this period of a week in which you plan to adopt the Constitution we cannot, either we must reject them or we must extend the public debate and debate on the amendments to the Constitution or amend the proposed amendments to the Constitution. This is therefore the best confirmation of how unserious the approach was in the changes to the Constitution that your club and the ruling majority are proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63192	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63193	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's to public debate and ways of changing the Constitution I ask you to tell me what public debate is and what online consultation on changes to the Constitution has taken longer than this. Here, answer me, please. And answer me one more thing. If we have now closed ourselves to the public, if we have done this inappropriately quickly and inappropriately, why have I come to you as chairman of the committee certain experts constitutionally-legal and said that while fellow Shex led the committee they could not even receive the minutes from the working group meeting that worked on the changes of the Constitution in 2010. We changed that. We also delivered those records to the public because they are public, because they must be available because we have laws that regulate it but we have opened all sessions to the public and we have not excluded anyone from participation. As for the procedure, it is very clearly prescribed in the Constitution and it is respected from the first to the last letter. And it lasts, it lasts since July, had its phases in October, had its phases in November and now came to the final stage in December. There's nothing to do overnight, but we're discussing everything. And to end what you said about President Josipovic's remarks. I ask you to read them, to read the first remark, and in the context of that, to propose an amendment that will say that all family communities are equal and I will be the happiest to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63194	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63195	Thank you, President of the Parliament. A respected colleague of the coat of arms at the Parliament's political debate over the past two days and events that have been on the public political scene above all by the president of the Republic yesterday but unfortunately also by HDZ yesterday at a press conference in the Assembly is saying that today we will have a debate that will completely lose sight of what was the task of the task of a working group that has been qualified as unprofessional and unquality. It is something that unfortunately, by the public of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament as the High House and the representative of all political options from the parties turned into a general mess. Whether a club of representatives or a party will have a view of constitutional changes like this or such, I am interested in what is the conclusion of all constitutional changes and the work of the task force if representatives and presidents of the clubs of all parties in the Croatian Parliament who have made their proposals are accepted or not considered unprofessional. Now that is the problem of Croatian politics and a bad complete message to our citizens who need to know about this what we want to achieve by constitutional change. If someone calls on the HDSSB party to work, by working hard for several hours in the task force, to bring down the constitutional and legal order of Croatia, if the president of the Republic the day before the debate in the Assembly announced with such comments on constitutional changes, so what has the President of the Republic been doing for the past two months when it comes to the Constitution? And who defended the President from any day, any term to address the Parliament and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? If a different political opinion in the Assembly is considered unprofessional and laxative, if it is a message to the citizens that representatives of the Croatian Parliament are unprofessional and incompetent, then I do not know what the elections in Croatia are. Then we should go back to some of the past times that I thank God they're behind us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63196	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Miroslav Tudjman, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63197	Thank you, Mr. President. In his presentation, counterpart Grbin said that the proposed solutions to the proposals were solved by any ideologies. It's simply not true about the procedure or the content. It has already been said, as the Venice Commission feels about such a procedure, as the Constitutional Court has said and then you have even a statement by NGOs that it is anti-democratic procedure and that fundamental human rights are being violated, that all citizens have the right and the duty to participate in this debate. Namely, we received this draft, namely the date of December 9, 3 days ago the possibility of giving amendments is today, say, ten hours while this debate is being held and all these preparatory actions cannot be counted on as a debate on the Constitution but as information on trades or agreements on who will agree to what. As for the content itself, when it comes to the criminal acts of serious murder, you put it in a sentence that begins in the time of the Homeland War and peaceful reintegration. So you only limit these serious murders to that period. And since you've rejected a debate at all to condemn all the murders committed during totalitarian regimes, it's very clear then an ideological message that follows from this definition and this approach.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63198	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63199	A respected murder colleague did not only take place during the Yugoslav communist regime, and that is why this proposal was deprived of any ideology. We condemn murder as other crimes whenever they happen and whoever did it, and it says in the proposal as well as what it says will be passed a special law for its implementation. Well, that's normal. Every time we changed the Constitution afterwards we also passed the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution and there will be no doubt or has it now to whom this applies. This applies to all those who have committed serious murders and have escaped and when we have received an independent Croatia have not been processed. I don't know what the Secret Service was doing back then, I don't know what those who were in charge of the Secret Service were doing then, so why didn't those who were headed the Secret Service pursue the killers. They could have, they were right, but those who had secret services at the time didn't even have other law enforcement bodies supply information so that they could start the proceedings, and now you're trying to fix those sins in the past condemning us to be ideologically colored. Dear fellow, for the crimes committed by the Homeland War if war crimes were outdated, there is no statute of limitations and for those who were not war crimes, the statute of limitations was extended 1.1.2013. by the power of the new Penal Code and this does not apply to them. This objectively refers to those crimes committed before 1987. That's what it says, it says in both this and the other laws. You cannot observe one regulation in the Republic of Croatia separately from all others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63200	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable representative Vladimir Shakespeare's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The esteemed representative, a colleague, is the president of the Grbin Committee, explaining the reasons and motives behind the statutes of serious murder, which will be prescribed by law, has ignored several very important and important facts to draw attention to. This proposed amendment to the Constitution does not obsess over the crimes of serious murders that will be prescribed by law opens what the President of the Republic in its proposal as an authorised proponent for amending the Constitution, opens up the possibility of full legal uncertainty, opens a breach of the fundamental provisions, a provision of the rule of law, legal certainty, predictability and predictability, opens up from a political point of view, this proposal constitutes a dangerous political volunteerism because political officials are given a political balance that at any point in time in the form of a special law as new crimes of serious murder every time a political authority decides to enter into the catalogue of criminal offences to enrol in the laws of serious crimes. That's what you have in the position of the Venice Commission, that's what you have in the position of the Constitutional Court, that's what you have in the position of the President of the Republic. Therefore, you cannot and must not ignore this because if such a provision is introduced in the Constitution it will mean dangerous political volunteering and dangerous playing with democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63202	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63203	So I'll do it one more time. This proposal does not introduce a new criminal offence into our system. This only determines that for the existing crime of serious murder or earlier existing, qualified forms of murder that have made it difficult to abolish the statutes, and why, at certain times, the perpetrators of these crimes did not want to be prosecuted. And we have to stop it. There is no new crime here, only for the existing abolishing of statutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63204	Honorable representative, Gordan Jandrokovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable Professor of Criminal Law and, by the way, the President of the Republic of Croatia, sent a letter to the President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Josip Lek, and on the proposal for constitutional laws to be adopted in accordance with the procedure for amending the Constitution, Professor Josipovic said as regards the new proposed formulation of Article 83(1), I would like to stress that this formulation is questionable. Although it looks at first sight as a way to strengthen the protection of the rights of national minorities, it can happen exactly the opposite. And then he goes on to say, although the fundamental idea of the formulation is that of the floor, and it was that certain legal provisions were hardened, probably those concerning the rights and freedom of the citizens, the effect could be quite the opposite, I would say dangerous. In fact, the ruling majority of arbitration can determine which laws will win the constitutional rank. It is also possible to vote in this way on the provisions of the opposite Constitution, and to bring constitutionalisation to the level of the Constitution, which would in fact prevent the control of those provisions by the Constitutional Court. Such changes are imagined to limit fundamental human rights and the rights of national minorities or changes which would raise entirely insignificant issues to the constitutional level with unseen consequences for the coherence and stability of the constitutional system. So this is not the HDZ position that you can attack, this is the attitude of the president of the Republic of Croatia and the law professor that points to everything that we said yesterday at our press conference. So let the citizens assess themselves and it would be nice for this letter to be seen in the media by the Parliament as a contribution to the public debate because if we have to choose between the expertise of Professor Josipovic or duet Grbin and Salapic, I will always define myself as Professor Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63206	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63207	Dear colleague, we are here to discuss all matters, we are here to discuss everything that has been said. Constitutional laws have been passed so far without being regulated by the Constitution. Here, I read you some. Constitutional law on cooperation with the international criminal court. We here only regulate if something is to be passed as constitutional law, then it must be very clear what the procedure will be. Two-thirds of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament must vote for this. As far as I know, it is very difficult to reach two-thirds of the Croatian Parliament in recent years. Why? Because we have democracy, because we have coalitions, and to make this decision, in order for the Constitution or constitutional law to change, we need to talk about it. And as we can change the Constitutional Law, so we can change the Constitution. So the Constitution can also be constitutionalized or the laws can be constitutionalized in a way that provides for a provision to enter into the Constitution that marriage is a union of men and women who were previously perfectly regulated by law. But that wasn't your problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63208	Thank you, too. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to present a report? No, I don't. We're opening a debate. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the club of the list of Independent MPs and respected representatives Grubisic and Cain are spending time scheduled for the club. Dear Representative Ivan Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63209	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I'm glad to be able to participate on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club in the first part of the debate. I'm personally the victim of a totalitarian anti-fascist so-called. Because I lost my father, my brother, and my seven close relatives. No one answered, they were killed, and I only found out where the father was buried in 1991, and I pulled his bones out and moved them to a family tomb. All the labels on me as a red pop fall into the water. I wouldn't mind specifically mentioning that victims of the totalitarian communist system don't get old either, and as far as I'm concerned, I've long forgiven the murderers, but if they're alive today, I wouldn't mind going to court and punishing them, but I personally for being a Christian and a priest. It should certainly be noted when discussing constitutional changes that the legal procedure should be implemented, that there should be a wide range of experts involved and that the Croatian public should be involved. We don't even mention the media writing about it here, but Iceland went through another method of change to the Constitution, to suspend the government, to organise a group, and that every citizen of Iceland could propose what would enter the Constitution. It wouldn't have ended for me, perhaps, in holy nowhere, as we're in the mood, but I predict that the debate will be long, fierce, and that it will be, I hope and content. I attended the task force as president of the Independent Representatives Club, I was not but at one session, I can't talk much about it, but the details of the views will be presented by Mr. Cain. But I believe that ours is also on this constitution and the provisions I read late last night, I have a lot of objections because our practice is far from the principles laid down in this Constitution. If we were to read in order what is not in harmony with the constitution, then there are many things that are not in line with the text of the Constitution that we now have before us and which is current and that many things should change. Why do we allow the situation in Croatia to be called a partytocrat, not a democracy, and the Constitution says that Croatia is a democratic country? Why does it say that Croatia is a social state, and in us is a social one, and the social state has over 300,000 unemployed? That's the problem. The problem is also what rights can go to a referendum to refer to the question of a referendum that is also being launched. And I think colleagues have well set out the conditions for access to the referendum, to reduce the number of signatures, to determine the censorship needed to come up with certain categories of legislation, and we'll support that, but some things about the seriousness of access, as far as civil gain is concerned, I think we're going too fast and recklessly into some changes. But I would like the changes that enter the Constitution to be respected and have concrete meaning. We had a referendum in the initiatives on behalf of the family, I went to this referendum, used my civil rights but I found it unnecessary because we have in the marriage law that marriage is a community of husbands and women, men and women. The sea doesn't need salt, it's salty. If all the laws entered the Constitution, we would have a new Bible and a new Koran, and that is not good. It wouldn't be good. The laws must be as brief as possible, constitutional provisions as possible and as clear as possible. Therefore, there are many things that should be entered into these changes, or we should change the practice or we should change the Constitution. And I would also point out only at the end of one thing, that the vote of change or non-voting is not valued through the political option of belonging but for the interests of Croatian citizens and for the sake of good Croatia. We are representatives of the people, but the people can also do without their representatives because the Constitution guarantees it, by making a direct decision of an important decision and amending the Constitution and other laws. That should be on your mind. But while we are here, we try to behave responsibly, to vote in accordance with the rules that are valid and in line with the interests of the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63210	Thank you, too. The second part of a respected representative, Damir Cain, on behalf of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63211	Honorable President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here at the end of this sentence, the Constitution really should be an extra-party act like it was in 1990. The first constitution or Christmas constitution was adopted in 22.12.1990 when? In the 5th month of the '90s, and the Parliament was established on the 30th of the year. So the deadline for public hearings from the '90s and this year it's the same, cca 5 months. With that distinction, we then received the Constitution, which has defined us, and now it is a constitutional intervention. Incomparably more extensive, the more responsible the work is probably done by then far more responsible than it is now. without that constitution of 22.12.1990, there would be no decision on independence from 25.6.1991 or a decision on the termination of the legal bond with the SFRY of 8.10.1991. Clearly, it was necessary to work quickly at that time, to work responsibly, to be courageous, to make historical decisions, to be ward or approached at the pier. They were fundamentalists, and this is a small but useful and important upgrade. I said important upgrade, it's like making a little reconstruction in the house and making two rooms out of one room, and that's something that's certainly useful. I agree, and just before some quoted the President of the Republic as saying, and he said he supports changes in the Constitution in their basic idea, his intention is to improve their text, certainly the most interesting proposal of the president provoked by a recent referendum on marriage and talks about life communities other than marriages that should guarantee the right to family life and its protection. Among other things, the president said it was not good to raise the constitution of ordinary laws by a ruling majority. There are minority laws, there is absolutely always a two-thirds decision in this House, but the procedure should not be the same as for amending the Constitution. And another sentence he said, he said, that if regions logically understood as the archeological form of regional self-government, it should be determined that instead of self-ruling local self-government, we got another level of regional self-government with all the consequences of total public spending. Regions yes, absolutely, but then what about the county. It is my fault to say that there is no provision in the Constitution for the inability to prosecute advocates for the spoken word for this speaker, I keep pointing out. This pay phone should be a sacred grail of freedom of word, not a person being able to answer materially. But let's let it go now. Regionalisation of Croatia. Croatia should be regionalised. As far as the region is going to be, I don't know, but Istria clearly must be, and that we have too many counties, municipalities, cities, and based on this president's connotation, it's not disputed, that we have too many civil servants of the ministry in the president's office, as well as local self-government, and it's not disputed either. Today, there are 350,000 people working in Croatia, local self-government and utility companies cca 100 000, while the remaining 250 000 work in the state administration, the military, the police. So the system should be reorganized, Croatia decentralised. Right, in a country with one pensioner, and 1.2 workers it's a huge risk, but I think you should be brave and go and start doing that. What's also important to say is that no matter what, we should open a debate, a public debate until the end of this call and prepare the state to enter the new local elections with a new structure. This isn't how it goes. Why did the SR Croatia grow faster, because it was much more rational, it had 107 municipalities, it had well four communities, I don't think so and because in the upgrade it generally worked 70,000 people less than it does today, and 70,000 times 9000 gross to get to net 5500 kuna is about 7-8 billion kuna per year. Imagine 7-8 billion kuna times 10 years of crisis in the development of this country. But what I'm trying to say, and that's what the president is saying, if the counties are introduced and the regions are then it's better to keep everything the way it is because it's going to be further hypertrophic, it's further causing new costs. For as long as I don't know, but count on it to be billions of kunas. As for minorities, the sacred thing of the Croatian state, everything can be touched, this must not be questioned. Or we had a recent attempt by one, I call it a fascioid referendum on Cyrillic which would question the status of all minorities in Croatia, from the Italian in Istria, Hungarian, Slovak, etc. And it's a good thing there's a consensus in this House that doesn't touch it. It's good, and I think he provoked a public debate by Don Grubisic with this religious science, so the church immediately jumped in and said no, it's defined by international contracts. I agree, it doesn't touch, but how is it that the church didn't just jump right away and say so and the position of minorities is defined by international contracts and that's not questionable. A referendum. As we set off, we could have the tsunamis of the referendum. That's what it costs, I'm talking 50 million kuna. In order to earn 50 million kuna, the bakery industry must sell a billion kunas of bakery products. So, to make a little joke, I propose a referendum day in Croatia, so let all initiatives be processed on the first Sunday of the 12th, 11th month. If we have 5-6 valid initiatives, let it be done in one place one day. And that's where we come to this Lex Perkovic. There are no statutes of limitations in the existing constitutions for converted crime, but there should be neither for the acts of these severe murders, the crimes committed towards immigration, which were committed after the 1990s. Or simply to whom. I agree with you about minorities, the absolute protection of the 2/3 majority as it is now, but if we are going to caricate the Constitution now defines Croatia with these amendments on ethnicity, not on most Croatian and minority ones, rather than on civil concepts such as the existing Constitution whose author is Mr. Seks. This basically means that the rights laws of minorities we spoke of as temporary because everyone should be entitled as citizens of Croatia have become actually cemented. 2/3 of the majority always, but the procedure as it is now and not as it defines itself or for the Constitution. All in all, due to time later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63212	Thank you very much. Now we're going to go for 12 replicas. Honored representative Dujomir Marasovic, the first replica of the respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63213	Your Honor, Mr. President. Comrade Grubisic, I do not like that you are using your father and brother's tragic death in your promotion by proving that you are a moral and correct... man. It doesn't matter, your father was unfortunately murdered but it doesn't mean anything to you that you are morally correct or any man or good or bad. And let's stop it more because my father was it, so I'm either good or bad because his father was this or that. It's the abuse of your father's tragic death and your brother. You should ask yourself, and I tell you, it's longevity to me, you said they call you a red priest. Are you even a pop because it's not controversial, it could be a red pop and a bishop and a worker a transporter. So, you're on to me because you're...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63214	Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, what does this have to do with the Constitution now, and that is what we are talking about? Please, nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63215	I don't know what kind, he was talking, I'm giving the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63216	I'm asking you nicely, please take your mind off the subject, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63217	I bent down to my predecessor's speech. I took it down to my predecessor's speech, so I'm going to do what my colleague Cain said as well. [[Intruder President: Please.]] A colleague, Grubisic, is asking to remove the giving of, say, the Catholic Church, and I would leave the giving to my association that usurped a third of the Grip. Where did you get the right... Where do you get the right to withdraw money from someone's state budget, and you should be left behind. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[Intruder President: Please.]] Please nice, etc. The president took me down, so I won't, otherwise I'll give you what I had today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63218	Your Honor, I have to interrupt you and I must say for future replicas. The world can neither see nor edit it from its own backyard. It's the wrong perception, and it's even more dangerous to edit it from our own backyard. Get up a little bit. The Constitution regulates that Croatia will live a significant period ahead. ... Okay. [[/Intruder Marasovic, you can't hear.]] Just please. So the man spoke illustrating what he stood for and what he was for. That's why I let him talk about it. Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63219	I don't think Dujomir Marasovic should be paying attention to what he's saying because he's out of context or he doesn't understand the extent of my debate. I didn't go to make points on the tragic death of my father, brother and cousin. I have no idea what the squares of the city space Dujomir is talking about, but I think he's completely misinformed because in 1998 when the Bishop's palace was to be emptied from several institutions that were there, then the Academy of Music, the Art Academy moved to the fortresses in Gripa and left us with 700 squares of 40 squares and the right to use the hall once a week when we maintain the stands. And we've been since 1998. We haven't even received lip from the state budget. [[/The incursion of the president: But my colleague Grubisic has nothing to do with the Constitution now, nor with the replica. You're talking about the property dispute. Please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63220	It's too serious to talk about our own problem right now. Let us focus on really something that will determine a very significant future political period for Croatia, Croatian society. They're not as insignificant as anyone wants to say. Dear Vice President Zeljko Reiner, a replica of the respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, fellow Grubisic, you have asked why many people believe that partothocracy is within us, so the rule of political parties instead of democracy, so the rule of the people. So here's you who claim it's gonna get another confirmation in what we're doing today. The agreement between some parties will lead to a change in the Constitution, a change in the Constitution that has two or three main purposes. One purpose, therefore, is to prevent the next referendum from being prevented, because the government, namely by ruling, is to be horrified by defeating the occasion of a previous referendum on marriage issues, has in some way sought to make the referendum possible. And these will practically prevent the referendum changes of the Constitution in the future. Another additional reason is that it wanted to limit the role of the Constitutional Court because it made several decisions as an independent body that were not in line with what the Government wanted, or ruling, and should then limit their role, and then, of course, the third one that was already mentioned to prevent the extradition of one person to Germany. And these are the real reasons why, therefore, the Constitution is changing and, of course, changing is being re-arranged by several parties, not by broad consultation with the people and the profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63222	There's no answer to the replica. We're going to the replicas of Honorable Representative Damir Kajin. Ante Babic, the esteemed replic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I actually wanted to replicate my colleague Grubisic, but also on the trail of what you said, he wasn't actually talking about the Constitution. By keeping the Constitution in front of me, I thought he was holding the Encyclical of Pope Francis "The Light of Faith" or about mercy and honesty. But please. [[Intruder President: Please, Your Honor.]] Since this is the same club, I continue on to a colleague of Caine who was actually talking about how the Constitution is the largest legal act, but it is not legal but political act of a state that should be consensually adopted in the Croatian Parliament. [[/Adversity President: You have missed the raise of the plate to the respected representative Ivan Grubisic and do not abuse now because it cannot answer you. I'd like to be correct with each other.]] And then you said that the Constitution must be an expression of the broadest social consensus, but you did not forget to say how professional, political, and thus the general public, and not that it causes additional radical divisions in Croatian society and that it is actually politically instrumentalised in favour of some political options. You also said that the basic text of our Constitution that was brought around Christmas in the 1990s was precisely that, the expression of the greatest social consensus in Croatian society and was actually brought before the holiday of Christmas, the holiday of peace, joy and family unity. Thus, in the 1990 ’ s, the Constitution actually expressed a peace, joy, and unity. Today, remember, we are again at a Christmas hour, at a time of joy and unity that this proposal cannot be said for sure. He represents everything just not that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63224	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Furio Radin, his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63225	Well, first of all, I deny Mr. Cain's words that Mr. Shakespeare is the author of the Constitution, he's not, at least I hope. Secondly, the rest of Mr Cain's debate was so quite balanced this time abnormally normal so I would not have any particular objections except in one part and that the Constitutional Law on National Minorities should not be adopted under the procedure of the Constitution. Then why is it called the Constitutional Law? Why for 20 years have we lied to the whole world about something that's constitutional law if he's not? That's what we used to run in our task force. So I'd like to ask that question to Mr. Cain why he thinks so, I mean why do we deserve it?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63226	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63227	Well, among other things, because 20 years, not 20 years, but if I'm not wrong with which '95. when we were first or '96. We adopt this Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities by a certain procedure. Among other things, because President Josipovic speaks similarly. He says, it is not good to raise rank to the Constitution and ordinary laws, by the arbitration decision of the ruling majority, by referring to it among other issues of the minority. Why? Because in a similar way, they think of a whole series of Constitutional Court judges who talk about us becoming a state of ethnicity now, not as a civil state so far. I can't admit that anyone in Istria, well maybe elsewhere that, did anything more for members of the national minorities than I did. As I also confess to Mr Furia Radin and he's done a lot for the same. I don't think anyone should be discriminated against or privileged. In one word, we should be the same as we've been before. But once again, the civil concept of the Republic of Croatia should be defended, and all laws concerning the position of the minority should be adopted with that two-thirds majority, as the Constitution itself adopts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63228	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dinko Buric, his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63229	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Caine, your excelling act made by the president of the Republic of Croatia, Dr. Ivo Josipovic, putting us in this position to get material on the benches that he was about to do with these constitutional changes, needs to be answered in simple language. His attempt to establish a category of rights for homosexuals or for Croatian gays in the same way as everyone else is an insidious act by an unworthy president of the Republic of Croatia. It is disrespecting the will of 2/3 Croatian citizens who said clearly and loudly in a recent referendum what they think of traditional Croatian values. It is a hypocritical and dangerous step towards the introduction of totalitarianism and hypocritical mockery of the same voters who were smart when they elected the existing authorities and President Josipovic to the post, and today they are because they voted in the way they voted, who are lagging behind today, today they are treated as primitives. It is true of the right attitude of what President Josipovic did. And when you used a dangerous sentence, Mr. Cain, that we recently witnessed a fascist referendum on Cyrillic, so you said, then I have to tell you that the fascist was aggression with Cyrillic letters on gambling and grenades falling on Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63230	No response to the replica... You didn't pick it up, don't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please! ... Just so you know, let me run the session and you can object. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] But I would like to read to my colleague Buric, but not to him, but to the Croatian public, Article 14 of the valid Constitution: "Everyone in the Republic of Croatia has rights and freedoms regardless of his race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political and other beliefs, national, social origin, property, birth, education, social status and other qualities. They're all equal before the law." Dear fellow Buric, if you do not feel that you have violated this provision by your debate then I cannot help you, but please respect the principles and you have sworn, this dictionary of a common man says that you will respect the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. Honorable representative Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63231	Thank you, Mr. President. In his debate, counterpart Cain first defended the existing procedure for adopting these constitutional changes, and then called for remarks from the President of the Republic that came yesterday. We got the draft three days ago, or three days ago, the draft change was written. It's simply in contrast with my colleague Cain. Defending one procedure that was actually open three days ago because there is no debate if we do not know what formulations and amendments to the Constitution are proposed. In fact, it should be openly said that it is an instant procedure and instant democracy so that one who actually wants to avoid public and open debate so that it can be given, that a large number of people could be involved, that the public might be involved in the debate on constitutional changes. You said yourself that these changes are important because they change the internal relations defined by the Constitution. On the other hand, where did this fear of tsunami referendum come from? So are we supposed to be for some democracy and that the more people participate in decision-making and suddenly we're afraid of the public, we're afraid of what the people think, and then we automatically implicate like you said the fascist referendum because the people are not good, but we who are going to decide on the Constitution are good, so we're going to discipline that people. It's simply against democracy, against the democratic values you're supposed to advocate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63232	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63233	Mr. Tudjman, an instant democracy, says, no, this is not instant democracy and no one is avoiding this one public debate. Perhaps it could have been longer then, but I reminded among other things what it was like when they were adopted first or what we called the Christmas Constitution, it was adopted on 22.12.1990. I said the election was held sometime in the fifth month, I said the Parliament was established on the 30th of the same year. So the deadline for this public debate was about what it is today. Clearly, it was to be done more and more quickly then because the changes that followed were incomparably more significant and not to mention the fact that there was some kind of war coming on the pier. As for the referendum itself, the tsunami of the referendum, no, I'm not afraid of them. In fact, I suggested that once a year we have a referendum day, a referendum day, five, six initiatives, get together nicely, and on that day we'll go out as elections or this last referendum and round up what suits us but in this way we'll save our brother a few hundred million kunas. The second thing I want to say is the same thing, not this fascioid referendum about a Cyrillic that's reportedly been collected as many as 600,000 signatures. That should be prevented. You have to say no to racism. to trample bilingualism at this time in one Vukovar means to actually trample bilingualism in Istria, Rijeka, Hungarians, Slovaks do not know Czechs in Daruvar etc. And I agree on the other hand that some of the figures that are now mentioned here for amending the Constitution etc., 50% may be too high.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63234	Thank you. Honorable representative Branko Bačić, his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63235	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Cain, the Constitution or its changes cannot be brought only on the principle of volunteerism. The individual will must exist but it cannot be enough, it is not enough to approach changes in the Constitution. It is your will, your request, and you support the introduction of regions into the Croatian Constitution and it is legitimate but this introduction of regions and regionalism into the Croatian political system requires one professional, scientific analysis that will show how much it costs, what is the area of these regions, what are the powers, what is part of the business, how much will all this cost to taxpayers in the Republic, what will be the relationship of the region to the central government of counterpart Cain? This is how Croatia, if we adopt this constitution as one of the few states, so I don't know maybe the only country in the world that will have a better word or in Europe, which will have three levels of local self-government, we will have municipalities and cities as local self-government, we will have counties and now we will have regions without saying anything without any argument, without any study to justify the introduction of regions, which will determine their area, their position, etc., etc. If it's not volunteerism, I don't know what might be and what might be considered volunteering. And now you expect this Assembly to bring a constitution into place that introduces a very important level of local or regional self-government without anyone in this House knowing what that means. Here's the president of the state warning us of such a fact. We either have to give up or stop adopting constitutional changes until we determine what it is in the Croatian region and when someone manages to convince us that the region, that its introduction into the Constitution is justified in relation to the counties, then it is likely that this side of the assembly will join it. This way, Mr. Cain, it's a classic volunteerism that's being raped here in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63236	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63237	Well, clearly, Mr. Representative. It's all just a political act and it would be good if this constitution as well as the 1990s were above party rank, that would be ideal, but I can see it just won't be. Here you see as the President of the Republic himself said, as you repeat, so I do not agree to increase the cost of local self-government, that with existing municipalities, cities, counties, mark the rest and region, but I believe Croatia should be regionalised. That's what I think. Maybe we should get everything back, I don't know about that system we had in 1990 when there were as many 107 and+ municipalities in this Croatia, but I know that on the other hand, Croatia was the fastest to develop, when according to the 74 Constitution, among other things, because the country was the most decentralised. Someone will say that then those municipalities would be a small federal unit or 105 of them were, I said 107, ok 105 of them were. Today, unfortunately, many of these small municipalities only care for their servants, and that is not simply good. When I look at how many local leaders they had when they entered local politics and what they have today, that one aspect simply freezes blood in the veins. So what I'm saying is that the state is absolutely regionalized, that the state is decentralisation, the question is how much is it going to be possible at this point and when it's just going to follow. Because there is a real question that now the region in the Republic of Croatia could narrow all its costs in this space and simply finance the same. But I want to believe it would be better than what it is today if the country were regionalized and decentralised.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63238	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Ante Sanader's respected representative, his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63239	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Cain, I would also like to look back on this part of your region-related section because you said and now you have repeated that you are absolutely for the regions. You even refer to this before 1990 when there were 5 communities of municipalities, and then you know that Istria was not a special community of municipalities, that it was part of the municipality of Rijeka. Well, I don't know if you're calling the river region so Istria doesn't have its own independence anymore, and you're saying if the county regions are introduced, it's not good. So you're absolutely in favour of abolishing the counties, of introducing regions. It's bad, first with what you're going to lose to the Istria region or you know something more, so it would be good to inform us if you reached an agreement, if you didn't, then I can't believe you'll support this concept of a region where Istria will lose its independence. And with all this and here, this about to discuss, I think, by the act itself, you should support that this debate was short because there are no studies, no excuses, no scientific institutions, the only one I know is the one ordered by the Community of the County of the Economic Institute that has not foreseen Istria as an independent region. So, all this and your discussion today, and if you vote for this tomorrow, then you must know that you are voting against independent Istria and that Istria will certainly not be an independent region in that sense unless you agree politically, and then that would be unfair to the rest of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63240	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63241	Istra won't lose anything and Istra will, Mr. Sanader, be the region. And be assured that there will be no springboards between Istria and Zagreb. I won't quote whose words they are. Regionalisation on the other hand is not federalisation, although I might be the happiest to have Croatia cantonized by one Swiss model. Here, I'd be the happiest. Clearly, the redefinition of local self-government itself is not a condition of progress, it is not a condition of prosperity, it is not a condition of any development. It is my opinion that everything that is not a business of exclusive national jurisdiction should be brought down to the local level. True, Croatia is different, this recent referendum showed the same. Istria, Rijeka is one way to vote, others in Croatia vote differently. Croatia is also unequally developed. Croatia was devastated by war, the war was not in Istria, it was up in Slavonia, in your Dalmatia or down in Dubrovnik. But Croatia also has different priorities, I am simply aware of that, in Međimurje, Dalmatia, Istria or Slavonia, but it should also be acknowledged that Croatia was rapidly developing during the period when it was most decentralised. It's true for Rijeka, it's true for Istria, it's true for Dalmatia, it's just worth it for Slavonia. Today we have a 556-centitory structure, which is a municipality, which towns, local self-government and its utility companies are doing 100,000 people with state-owned upgrades, which is 350 000 and the question of who can pay more today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63242	Thank you very much. New Replicated Representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63243	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Cain, and my replica will go in this direction to change the Constitution, by introducing the concept of a region into the Constitution. You said in your debate that one of the problems is too many municipalities, cities and counties. Personally, I believe that this is not a problem because there are practices in European countries that have more units of local self-government. Before we could talk about the structure of ourselves, and I don't mean it here, first of all, on the territorial structure of municipalities and cities, but on their jurisdiction and fiscal capacity. You mentioned the concept of decentralisation. I also believe that we cannot talk about decentralisation unless we are talking about regionalisation at the same time. Although these two concepts seem to be the opposite, a prerequisite is necessary to achieve this kind of process. Of course, this process will take years and it must first of all be motivated. What the regions in the future should be, should primarily protect the interests of cities, municipalities and counties, if such a structure in terms of county remains because here I have only one example of EU funds in this sense can be far more generous, there I have had my personal, before I think at least conflicts with my colleagues from the HDZB when we talked about administrative regions, I think that even here the regions provide much greater opportunities to attract EU funds. Here, that's the only part I wanted a replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63244	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63245	I agree with you, Mr. Sagar, that this intervention in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is in some way an introduction to the debate on decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia. I will repeat once again that Croatia was the fastest to develop in the Constitution in 1974 when we were 107 or as Mr Bačić 105 municipalities say. It doesn't matter. Today Croatia has 556 hundred counties, which cities, which municipalities. The regions are now mentioned. The regions absolutely do, but then something in this small Croatia, the poor devastated Croatia, is simply too much. Clearly, when we speak in Istria, Istria equals the region, it's enough to look at the coat of arms, see the shrimp in the crown of our coat of arms, and I don't think there's any dilemma and that's why we're all going to be. We gentlemen of 2013 in the upgrade, what I may have said before at the Parliament's pay phone, we have 70,000 employees more than in 1990. It is clear that this should be paid, that it is cca Mr. MP 7 billion kuna, 1 billion euros. And imagine that money in the economy, that in the last 10 years, the country has invested 7, 8 or 10 billion euros in what life simply means. I guess we'd all be better off. I even agree that during one period of this small municipality they have largely helped balance the diversity of development compared to those cities that they came from, but over time we have to agree that something needs to be changed both with the state administration and with local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63246	Thank you very much. New Replicated Representative Branko Vuksic. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic would you like to give a replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63247	I apologize to the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Cain, you spoke in your discussion about reforming regional self-government and you said cocoa is 556 units of local self-government too and one of your conclusions actually offered me this replica, which is that we should make local self-government by this term. And what public debate? Public debate for how long? Two, three months. In order to do a detailed analysis, it certainly gives two mandates rather than one mandate, means two mandates. Some countries such as Denmark and the Netherlands have been reforming local self-government for 5, 6, 7 years so that they can do quality analysis. Which means you ate 556 too? How optimal is it? What are the fiscal capacities of these municipalities? What are the fiscal capacities of cities, county? But what you recommend, why I'm talking, I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to the public, because maybe the public thinks it's really possible to reform local self-government by enrolling it in some law or enrolling in the Constitution, and that reform is a done deal. The reform needs major preparations, this government has not made it possible and has taken a single step to think about reforming local self-government. Thus, we did not make a single advance in order to accomplish it. So we can accomplish in 5, 6 or 7 years, not until the end of this government's term, because it would be pure utopia and it would be a real rape.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63248	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63249	Although I'd like it to be as fast as possible, I know you're right and that's the process that's going to require 3, 4 and 5 than 3 years ago, and that's true. I also agree that this is not a reform of local self-government, but the introduction of a public debate on what local self-government should look like. At these moments when we'll probably have budget rebalances to reduce 3,4 billion kunas from the same time I'll say it's not dramatic, but it's mostly serious, when it's not indecisive, but to paraphrase the father who once told me, it took you 20 years to bring Croatia to what is today, so now it'll take you or all of us 20 years to get it back to what it was, clearly in an economic, social, developmental perspective not territorial. All this points to the country's reform of local self-government not happening so soon. And for the third time or fourth time, I repeat that Croatia was the fastest to develop when it was most decentralised, and that was according to the '74 Constitution. It was absolutely legitimate to leave ex Yugoslavia, Croatia paid for it with 14,000 dead, with 60,000 people with disabilities, with dozens, hundreds of burned villages or cities and, unfortunately, it alone was not able to recover so soon. But where's the problem now? Everyone around the metropolis is stagnating, all over. It doesn't matter if it's Istria or Dalmatia, and if something is not done urgently, I'm afraid everyone will fall further and that neither Zagreb will develop.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63250	Thank you. A new replica of respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63251	Dear President, thank you. Comrade Cain, it is good that this debate on regions and regionalism has appeared just today when we are discussing a draft constitutional change. We gave our proposal the framework, the legal framework for the introduction of regions into the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia after 15 September, and today it is almost 15 December. So two months no one said anything about it. What is most important in 2013 is not the same as in 1993, we should look into each other's eyes regardless of whose mayor is the head of the county, did the county as a regional self-government achieve its benefit? Is each county functioning in an equal manner and what benefit do our citizens benefit from these counties as a unit of local self-government without harming any right to a different opinion in politics? So the conclusion of our proposal is whether the current territorial structure as it functions with the number of counties works. Do we need regions in Croatia, and we know that Europe rests in regions? This does not mean that someone will end Croatia's cards or demand the secession of any end of this country, but that our citizens benefit in real life, the economy. Take a look at Slavonia and Baranja, all the biggest companies in Osijek, IPK Osijek, OLD Osijek, MIO standard, sugar factory all failed by several thousand people. Our Slavons today are hungry for bread. In our Osijek, there is no longer a pine tree that has all the branches, and we here declare ourselves traitors of Croatia because we want a better life for our citizens. Is it fair and fair if someone just because HDSSB is a party that has agreed to discuss political problems in Croatia and the need for certain items of the Croatian Constitution to change that it accuses us today that we have betrayed Croatia? So the Croatians who opened the Tudjman rooms and their advisers who sent all documents from the Homeland War regardless of what it was and what it was today should be discussed if someone is moving on that front.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63252	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63253	Croatia was betrayed not by those who opened archives but by those who robbed it. Croatia was betrayed by those who put themselves on the other side and burned and burned on this country. Regionalization, yes, I'll say metropolization scares me. It is not the fault of Zagreb either, although the poor in this town live just as hard as the poor in Istria or Slavonia. But I'll read one thing... tomorrow I'll talk more about it. In 2002, Istria had an economic growth of 36.6%, more developed than the average of the Republic of Croatia, 19% more developed than the Primorje-Gorski County, 19.5% less developed than the City of Zagreb. 2010 according to the classification of these NUTS regions etc. Istria, Primorje-Gorski County equals, means we are falling, City of Zagreb 31, pardon, we are now developed 31% less than the City of Zagreb and 28% more developed than Croatia. I said, before we were 36% more developed than Croatia, and the City of Zagreb was 19% more developed than Istria. So something's just going on. I'm afraid this metropolisation with a whole series of subjective moments from Istria is simply not promising, but it's certainly not the ones who live in this city.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63254	Thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is up to the HDSSB club and two respected representatives, first Josip Salapic and then Dinko Buric. Thank you very much. Joseph Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63255	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we open a debate on the proposal for a draft constitutional change of the Republic of Croatia. Some indications about what will be discussed on the working group appointed by the Croatian Parliament, about some of the issues that have entered into the topic in constitutional changes have been discussed somewhere since September of this year, the principle since July. What I want to remove right away, in the last few days, and especially yesterday, fierce attacks against the HDSSB have taken place for only one reason, that we have conducted politics and conscious work as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, that we have sat down for hours in the Working Group for the Change of the Constitution, which, let us forget, has appointed this House of Highs and we wanted to talk about the better future of Croatia, about what is good and what is not good for Croatia, while not demeaning any one party, not a single position. And I didn't expect this from the HDZ Representatives' Club to address the HDSSB yesterday. Should we vote for constitutional changes in view of the issue of spreading them, we will decide on the party's main committee. The HDZ has its bodies as a responsible political party, and we have given the HDZ several times in this High House, together we went to the Cyrillic issue in Vukovar, we have signed your proposals, we have gone towards solving some of the key national problems in Croatia. Today, in our troubled city of Osijek, the coalition of 8 parties, which also includes the HDZ which holds... The SDP in Osijek issued an inscription that the HDSSB will issue Croatia if it votes for constitutional changes. The HDSSB will propose in the Croatian Parliament a law relating to what it said and the headquarters, which is that all those who were employees of the former communist regimes and refugees, that they cannot deal with public work and politics in Croatia, however sensitive the issue in the Constitution. The HDSSB supported all the legitimate demands of those groups and groups in Croatia who wanted to discuss problems in our country. We'll behave in the Croatian Parliament as if that curse had returned to us that the Croats were cursed, that they would never have their leader again. Remember the king of Bellmire, your blood, for we are opposition to ourselves. With these constitutional changes, the HDSSB does not protect any single man. If we discussed the Law on Judicial Cooperation and said that we support what was the position of the European Commission and that the date must be returned on January 1st 2004, as regards the execution of Perkovic, if Croatia is in 2013 after the violent war and all the dead victims in the war and generals who are hanging in prisons today because they defended their country and those who delivered them to the courts, and today you are heroes and defenders of Croatia, if HDSSB betrays Croatia and if Croatia depends on a man who is potentially suspected of murder, then we are a poor country and then that curse by King Zvonimir "curse you were Croats, do not believe yourself" then it stands. We are the responsible party that participates primarily with good intentions in these constitutional changes with 7 MPs. Today you started talking about regions and that the HDSSB is destroying Croatia's constitutional legal order and that we will destabilise the country if we introduce the concept of the region. And that's too much to reason that after two months on the task force or that of any body, to a joint meeting who defended us from inviting us to talk about what it really means. Does entering the legal framework of the region mean definitely abolishing the counties? Can the region be called County? Do we, as President Josipovic wrote today, want to create counties and increase administration with this proposal? So what an unsuspecting proposal would be a serious party that is a parliamentary party that wants to increase the administration today in this crisis. The question is how do we live today, what's the benefit of this local self-government? Why would someone go to remove the county just because someone doesn't like the county or the mayor who runs a particular county. The question is what our citizens benefit from. I'll come back to Slavonia, I said. We are a regional party and it is strange if we propose regions, not reducing the rights of any other part of Croatia to discuss it. Does this legal framework in the Constitution mean destabilization of Croatia and the introduction of something that is not good for Croatia? It doesn't. We were supposed to be in something together. And there will be more room to talk about. When the County House of HDZ was abolished, a constitutional suit was filed for the abolition of the County Hall in 2000, 2001. We have proposed a House of Regions, not private parliaments. The home of the regions in the Croatian Parliament, which is similar to its powers as the County House that would change a certain system of functioning, reduces the number of MPs in the House of Representatives and has representatives who would protect the interests of their end. As much as we hide behind it, remember that we once had to keep quiet here with some amendments because the national policy of large parties is sometimes such that you simply have to keep quiet. This is no criticism or insult to anyone. We responded to this group's work. That is why we should not keep our side of the SDP or keep our side of you, but we expected you to be in this together, and not to cry any more in Osijek today that we have betrayed Croatia and that, as a coincidence, we have many emails coming from HDZ. And that's not good. We will decide for ourselves what is best for the citizens of Croatia. At no point did we want to protect any of the fatters, and one person who is potentially suspected of serious murder, no one who has injured Croatia at any time in our country's life. Your proposal concerning the non-aging of the serious murders committed during the communist regime, we have nothing against it. We just said in your debate... that it is contained in the wording of the general article not to obsess over the serious murders committed at any time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Your second proposal that we couldn't discuss because you left was that the issue of voting by citizens of the Republic of Croatia outside Croatia was changed given the changes to the 2010 Constitution. Well, we'd support that for you. You're gone. We were not against any HDZ proposal, because if such a party is going to stand up to us just because we with 7 MPs are a two-thirds majority in the Assembly and that HDZ has excluded himself from participating in constitutional changes and calling us to protect the comforters and the communists, so that is extremely embarrassing. In order for a party that has 7 deputies in 2013, when we are a member of the EU, when we are hard to live, 17 billion kunas are at a disadvantage, when our children who finish colleges have no place to work, have no way to live healthy in this country, we will talk about protecting the refugees, and our interest by introducing regions is to destabilise the democratic and legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and we know that Europe is resting in regions, in Europe region. We have seen a report by the auditor of the European Court of Justice, where less funds have been withdrawn from the EU funds due to the size of the city of Zagreb compared to other local self-government units. Is the region as a notion, whether it will be called the County whatever it takes for Croatia or not, will be dealt with in the debate on a special law. What does this legal framework mean? That he wants to destabilise Croatia. Which means a proposal to discuss this with a special law on what it means. It's a matter of professional, economic forecasts, tax returns. How will this system work? Why should the region of Slavonia, Baranja, not be called in Slavonia, which will gather all five counties. Why not call it Slavonsko-Baranja County, which will have the status of the region and which will in some ways work to benefit citizens and people living there. Today Osijek is a deserted city with full employment services, with destroyed companies, with the uncertain future of the city in which we live, and we cannot talk about it in the Croatian Parliament just because we don't talk nonsense, which we want to do something bad, just because our party with 7 MPs makes a two-thirds majority in the Assembly and what key national interests and topics are introduced today into the Constitution. Tomorrow I can be an economy, a state budget, investments I can make without you. That's why that attack was yesterday, and it wasn't necessary. And any spread of further themes and dilemmas will question the opening of some new pages that neither we nor we would be happy about, because we didn't expect this from you. The HDSB will make its views for the future, we will make our views for a better Croatia and we will never talk nonsense about this speaker, we will not protect any criminals and refugees. We will stand for a better future for the Croatian and young people who live here. And some of us should think three times before they organize attacks on the party, because we know it all, and we know where it comes from, and we know who's doing it, and we'll talk about it. There'll be time and opportunity. Mr. Buric will move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63256	Thank you very much. The second part on behalf of the HDSSB club, respected representative Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63257	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to say that it doesn't scare me at all. On the contrary, I'd like some of the pages we need to discuss. The HDZ supports constitutional changes leading to Croatia's regionalisation for a simple reason because it is better for Croatia than what we have now. It's open, clear and loud to say 21 counties in a country this small is too small and too much. Five regions. Whether they're going to be called counties or regions we don't think that's the most important thing. Slavonia and Baranja, the Slavonia-Baranja region, was the Slavonia-Baranja County in such a structure, will live better in it than they do today. However, the message also to the rulers. Nothing's over. Such an attempt as President Josipovic has now tried to counter here, be sure there is no talk about it. The text of the draft constitutional changes without such plantings and insidious acts was Bruised. I said, it is an insidious act, an insidious act by the President of the Republic of Croatia. Yes, the main committee will decide because we are not giving ourselves as a serious political party the right to decide on this by neither seven MPs nor the party's chairmanship, but rather the party's highest body will give its position on this. But when we talk about who's coming after us, now a little bit. I heard Mr. Jandrokovic you attacked us hard. We will be attacked by those who licked Sanader's shoes, and the village says something more. Ours will be attacked by those whose president today laughed atrociously at the morbid jokes that President Mesic told about the late President Tudjman. Ours will be called by those who haven't carried out the lustration, that 23 years ago, we wouldn't have had the problems we have today. Today, we are called by those who, in the past 8 years, have collated with the abolized Stanimirovic, robbed the Croatian state and thus committed treason against Croatian peoples. Anti-Croatianism was an unprecedented robbery of the Croatian people, it was, not an advocate for a better life than we, with the desire to conduct regionalization, want to do. We will be called by the same ones who, raising their hands to change the statutes of the city of Vukovar along with HSP Ante Starcevic, have enabled the introduction of Cyrillic in Vukovar. The same ones whose president signed a petition for the Cyrillic and then sprayed on the ashes. When it comes to minority rights, the position of the HDSSB, Mr. President, is unquestionable to minorities of every right, but to speak clearly as we speak for all our generations, we speak of a minority who, 23 years ago, caused a bloody war on these premises, we are talking about a minority whose rights we will protect but those rights that belong to them by law. Not in a way that most, and that Croatian majority, be the hostage of any minority or minority. When we talk about Cyrillic, then just to know what the HDSSB's position is, the Cyrillic place in Vukovar is not. The Cyrillic place in Vukovar is not like the seat or the kolo in the Bleibur field. Cyrillic is not the place in Vukovar, nor is the song "Here is the dawn, here is the day" is not the place in Jasenovac or Zemun. Cyrillic is not a place in Vukovar, and it's very simple. When we talk about what we have declared and spoken about these days and what we will insist on HDSSB will not lead its policy either as a attachment to the HDZ or as a pretext of the SDP. We are an independent party that has its own position, its own thinking and that primarily takes care of the better life of every citizen in Slavonia and Baranja and protects more from you and from many moves that this current government is now doing national Croatian interests. It is indisputable that the tragedy of the Croatian state and the Croatian people is that it also had the authority that robbed it materially and financially, and that today it has a power that tries to rob it morally and spiritually by dividing the Croatian people and Croatian society ideologically in a way that has never been... We're an independent party and we decide for ourselves, you can talk whatever you want. [[The speaker is not understood because of the incursion of the chairman.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63258	Thank you very much. Now we're going to do 18 replicas in a row. Honorable representative of Sunchana Glavak, first replica. To Salapic, yes, the respected representative of Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, this was actually 15 minutes of defense and a few attacks. However, my colleague Salapic spoke of good intentions and I will now tell you what about your regionalisation intentions all members of the County Assembly in Međimurje County who on November 28th, so all the political parties sitting in the Međimurje County Assembly have brought a declaration and among other things the Međimurje County Assembly strongly opposes the proposals of the HDSSB and IDS to introduce Croatia's division into the regions in the current changes to the Croatian Constitution. So that's what members of all the political parties sitting in the Međimurje County Assembly think. So I'm asking you not to call on good intentions because I guess they know what's good for Međimurje and what the citizens of Međimurje want. In addition, they urgently seek to stop the process of moving the regional headquarters of state institutions from Čakovec to Varazdin and to return the displaced institutions back to Međimurje. So, on November 28th, such a declaration was adopted and I ask you, please, don't take selfish reasons when you talk about good intentions for the Republic of Croatia. Every county knows best what's good for her. So think about what you suggest and what you stand for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63260	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63261	Thank you, Mr. President. I know that you are not selfish or malicious in your replica now. I wasn't talking about your county and Međimurje County and citizens' interests there being irrelevant, but I was talking about the end I came from, I was talking about Slavonia and Baranja, about Osijek, about Požega, about Slavonski Brod, about Đakov, about Valpov, about Belist, about Nasice. You don't know anything about it, and I don't know about your county, about your citizens' problems. I said it would open a legal framework to see whether this new transition to a territorial structure would depend on all of us in the debate on a special law. Not just about us, but about your citizens and your county and the city you come from. I know you're not mean, but believe me, neither am I. How many unemployed in Osijek today? What about the taxes that go to the state register in Zagreb? How are young people going to get a job? Where are the investments in our cities? That's what I was talking about, not that someone wants to end someone's right and someone's county. That wasn't the intention of discussing anything at all. Have we ever sat together in the Parliament to record the situation in Croatia why we are 17 billion kunas in deficit and did the territorial structure, who says that the region in your area can't be named after your county? Or how we all deal together? Why did this ideological problem come about just because the HDSSB suggested it? So remember I sat down with you when we talked about the network of courts, about the network of state attorneys, about the network that the chiefs who came from the HDZ rebelled at that debate and didn't want to talk about it, that we had to stop it ourselves because they didn't allow it. Well, it's normal for everyone to protect their local interest. But we can't say what doesn't stand. I can still speak from the network of police, from the tax administration today, from the state administration that is forming at regional level. That's what a little door does. This is what the government is doing now not because it wants to divide Croatia but rather wants to create savings and a different functional system. That's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63262	A new replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63263	Thank you very much, President. Well, a colleague of your club's Salapic has made it clear that the SDP has achieved its goals. The opposition has embarked on opposition in the interest of the SDP's achievements of everything this constitution offers. That's clear and everything that's going to be said today will be mostly in that style. But you were talking about regions that surprise us because HDSSB is a regional party and normally talks about regions. The regions in Croatia have been spoken of for 20 years, but what we have are so-called. the mini regions of the Croatian County and so far it has not been disputed. We are now obviously introducing the concept of the region as some supremacy between the current counties and the state level in the Constitution. The president himself clearly questioned his proposal with such an opportunity, given that the state is administratively overpriced and raises even the question of such a single proposal which is not elaborated. It is known that there are several levels of regions that know the administrative structure in the world or in Europe. The thing about your exposure left me a memory of that economic part, so I don't understand because I haven't noticed anywhere in the world that the county that's running for more money from the central register is looking for a region. That'll be bad for, say, Slavonia. Istria is much better because the nature of the region is to keep as much income to itself as possible. Knowing the state of agriculture in Slavonia and from other industrial branches, I think the Slavons will go much worse than the Istrians if that happens. Unfortunately, it will not be politically good either if five regions are created in which the Primorje-Gorski County will, for example, become part of the region with Istria, the regional parties will also become HDSSB and the IDS I think lose in all of this, so I do not understand that your insistence that Croatia be divided into regions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63264	Replica response, respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63265	Dear counterpart Boris, we will insist that our citizens benefit from their local self-government and that our citizens live better in their local community, that the money we pay as taxes in the area in which we live to invest in investments, in new jobs and rebuild our neighborhood. I said, I mentioned Slavonia and the situation today in Osijek with the number of unemployed and large companies that failed, which employed several thousand people. We who come from that region know best what our end is, as you best know about Dalmatia, as Istria knows about Istria, as Dubrovnikers know about Dubrovnik, it is not at all about any evil intentions of colleagues and about the fact that the opposition went to the opposition, yesterday HDZ had a press conference not HDSSB. Just like HDZ is working in Osijek with the SDP? Is HDZ there in power or in opposition? That's one fundamental question. Who votes for the SDP proposal of the coalition led by Ivica Vrkic and who did not? Who today asked Osijek to have Christmas, to prevent the situation in the Croatian National Theatre, on whose side is HDZ there if not on SDP? If I said something wrong, deny me. We're you. in part of your debates until you left when it came to explaining it, supporting it. We don't understand the level of opposition has gone to the opposition. So who's going after who? And who called HDSSB for Croatian treason? So I don't know what's wrong with all of you? Why would I be involved in anything that would be bad for Croatia? You mentioned a European arrest warrant, so who would normally think of taking part in this for the sake of a European arrest warrant. So do you remember what we said two weeks ago? What were we talking about? Were you on the Constitutional Working Group when we asked that the European arrest warrant and this Article 31 of the Constitution concerning non-depreciation of crime must enter into force on the same day. How can you accuse HDSSB of treason? So what's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63266	Thank you very much. Please debate within the principle of the Constitution. It's worth the trinity of power, the rule of law. That's what we agreed not to touch in principle. Dear Representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63267	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Salapic, we did not accuse you of treason. That's the first thing. You obviously got the wrong information about our messages that we brought to the Croatian public yesterday. In person, my colleague Buric mentioned me. You missed the target. I insisted on only one thing, and I stand firm as a rock at the end of it. In the event that the Government plays a European arrest warrant for amending the Constitution with effect from 1.1.2014, you will be held accountable. You can't get away from that. So that was my message. I like HDSSB and I have no reason to go with you but I also have the right to say what may happen to your mistake, intent, indifference. This may be the case if a provision enters into force that there is no obsolescence due to severe murders and 1.1. the European arrest warrant does not have guarantees that this European arrest warrant will be implemented. Why? if you read yesterday's interview in the evening with Mr. President of the County Court in Zagreb, Tuduric, he says that the European arrest warrant is not in the court where it should be but in the MUP and is not known when this European arrest warrant will be forwarded to the court. So, on 01.01., non-depreciation takes effect, however, the government will keep a European arrest warrant with it until the state's attorney initiates the procedure. That's possible, I'm not saying that's how it's gonna happen. If that happens, and you vote in favour of the Constitution, you will be held accountable for the non-delivery of persons requested by the European arrest warrant. We're not talking about treason here, I don't want to offend you, I want to humiliate you politically, but I point to a serious danger and responsibility that you have.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63268	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Salapic. You have 10 more lines on you and 5 on your colleague Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63269	Ah, well, thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Jandrokovic, you were foreign minister in the past government, you know very well about diplomatic relations, responsibility for diplomatic scandal if it happens in the case Perkovic will take over the government of the Republic of Croatia and the relations between the government of the Republic of Croatia which has become a member of the EU and the Federal Republic of Germany, if it is to be endangered because of one man, this raises the question of the functioning of the Croatian state for the future. So who thinks he's taking responsibility and that the fate of Croatia around these constitutional changes comes down to one thing. The HDZ called us yesterday at the press conference for our proposal in constitutional change. And I said again, support us for the lustration law where we're going to ask that all those who were UDBA Secret Service employees, SOA, all who worked and violated human rights in their actions not to be able to deal with politics. So back us up on that. Let's punish all those who worked against Croatia's interests. Would it have occurred to us that we were in that group for two months, so there was Mr. Shakespeare and Mr. Mlakar with us. At no time have we expressed the view of your proposal that we do not want to discuss it. For the first time yesterday and today I hear your attitude about the region, and we've been to several meetings together at work in the group. You didn't vote to start constitutional changes at all. You're out of the assembly. And you got the chance and we supported it, we didn't want HDZ to participate in it, to be part of the task force, and Pedja invited you to the task force to be part of the task force, and you didn't even vote to start constitutional changes. And the fact that it's bad, yes, one party with so many MPs, regardless of our views that are not the same, is not involved. If we're going to deal with just one name and not talk about the number of counties or the referendum or the work of the Parliament, then we're all miserable together. Poor country where it goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63270	Followed by the replica of Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63271	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Salapic, I don't like it on your part, and I'm replicating it here, and I'm opposed to the HDSSB being able to say everything on HDZ's account, I'm not going to say what that means. Criticism is a mild word, spit was so little more appropriate, but it's not nice to be quiet, and now that a HDZ press conference gives an opinion, you're expressing yourself on HDZ. I understand what Buric is yelling at in his defense, but fellow Salapic, you first return the mandate to HDZ and then speak, and until then you have no right to speak, please return your mandate because you won it through HDZ and then organise a press conference in Osijek and say this. That's it. But what is it? That's not even the point. You can't hide from all the Croatian public that what you insist on in the regions, that it's just a fig tree of a trade agreement between you and a party in which two different things are on the scale, are not regions, other weights on the scale, between you and the party, and in fact it's a sacrifice of principles. On the one hand, your weight is the sacrifice of principles, and the party gets what it wants. And the regions are just a fig leaf. That's it, nobody's against the region, let's go, but Josipovic here is right if you want the president of the state is right, there can't be regions and counties. What are you A.D.O.C. bringing in here tomorrow? We're diletters. We're all dilettantes. To immediately collect the state for one billion kuna or not to introduce it. Open up a public hearing. Josipovic is right about this. Other things with Josipovic would be discussed, at least as far as I'm concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63272	Thank you. The term of office is not binding in the Croatian Parliament and, of course, colleague Josip Salapic has the right to speak, so I give him my word to answer you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63273	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, for you, with the expertise of this issue I will try to lower myself to the level at which you have now been. There's a movie called Return to the Future, and you're in each of your discussions in the past. You're going back in time. You'd be the ideal representative in the former council, in the former communist state, because then you'd be an opposition quality. And you return the mandate, you know who, who put you in that seat, and that's Mrs. Kosor, who is sitting behind you all today, the last one in the bench. You return the mandate to her, and I will return the mandate to whoever chooses me, and these are the voters of Slavonia, Baranja and the citizens who expect me to say something here and do something here. And not to talk about the Partisans, the Communists, the comforters, and that every debate that's professional, you have nothing to say, and for every debate you go back into the past, you're an ideal actor for going back to the past and for that country that, thank God, we've forgiven.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63274	Next up is the replica Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63275	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, you have devoted a good part of your debate to something that is introduced, it fits essentially for every change in the Constitution, but what you have experienced directly deserves exactly the extent and time you have devoted in your debate. And for what? Exactly what you are experiencing, what you are experiencing from those who understand democracy, and exactly what we are discussing, changes to the Constitution are one framework of democratic rule. As a young man, to the general wonder of the great husbands who listened so carefully to you and wondered where you came from as a young man, such courage, such determination to say what many have experienced, as many in some areas under their rule today. You've described it well and in detail, and everyone knows what it's about. But that's the danger of such a government as they understand, it's your democracy, it's your democracy and la HDZ it's the constitutionality of a la HDZ, it's the legality of a la HDZ. It is those who do not allow those who have taken Croatia, privatized it, only they can speak about Croatia, only they know what is best for Croatia, only they know about the economy of everything, and we see in our courts how to write a textbook of crime from their political economy or economic policy. But they're all so amazed at where you get the courage to say what they're doing, and that's what they're talking about whenever we talk about not only changes to the Constitution but also certain laws and the referendum issue. We can't talk about how they behave, and we're talking about just condemning it. So I congratulate you on that courage though We don't have to agree on much. [[Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63276	Time. We will hear the reply to the replica of Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63277	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Antičević, we have often disagreed on many things, but we have agreed on many things. I believe we agree that when it comes to the national interests of Croatia, when the Croatian Constitution is changed, when we talk about the future of our country, about the current life on all spheres not only of human rights but also of the economy and electoral democracy and the issue of the work of the Parliament, the question of the role of MPs, the issue of local administration and self-government, we can have completely different views, but when it comes to national interests for the future there should at least be discussed. Is there really going to be constitutional changes in the end, will they be within this scope, given the comments of the President of the Republic who came too late for us and for me? The president was supposed to get involved, not after two months of trying to destabilise what's going on. Our intention must be one thing, and that's what this is all about. What were we banging and beating empty straw for two months and bothering the Croatian public? Today there's a growing number of unemployed, companies going down, we're in debt, we're talking about bonds we can't sell, we're asking God to buy our airport. You see how our cities live on, where are our people? Global depression, pessimism, and we've been dealing with world-wide issues for three months and things that we could all normally solve. And I'll repeat it all together regardless of the attitudes, I wasn't brave, I was honest because I had no reason to keep the fig in my pocket. And some of them I said goodbye and left because I didn't want anyone to run my head and my opinion. I want to represent the area I came from. Who likes it or doesn't like it? Well, we're not here forever. We don't have to be here forever. We don't have to die in a council chair, but we have to work for our citizens. We are all together as politicians and politicians in some things become a public mockery. You'll see the comments today. Those people don't care about the arrest warrant, what do they care if they live badly in our country today? If there is a general impression of a pessimism of loss of will for life, overall depression because we have nothing to live on. When someone goes to school today, there's no train ticket, and we're pounding empty straw if I'm talking about protecting the refugees. Well, there's nothing better to do when you're 37 years old and to protect the refugees.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63278	A fellow Salapic time. Thank you. Followed by the replica of Peje Grbina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63279	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Salapic, and now you've said, we've talked about these changes to the Constitution for two months, we've been working to agree and we've been trying to make a guideline in which direction Croatia should go. Now we've talked about regionalisation the most, so we have defined nothing with this except that we believe that Croatia should be regionalised. We are now waiting for not a month, not two, years of debate, analysis, preparation and reflection on how we will share Croatia. Whether there will be 5 regions, whether there will be 7 whether they will be 9, then we will have a debate on what will be the powers, how they will exercise them, how they will regulate the relationship between the representative body, the executive authority, we will have to define what their financial limits will be. We've just started a procedure with this, and I don't see how that's clear to anyone. Here, let me put it this short. There's a lot more work to do, and this is where we just started it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63280	The replica corresponds to Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63281	Thank you, Vice President. Reverend Grbin, here you are as a young man and a politician in the last two months, putting the wind of the gun and the general shooting towards anything that you said. I don't think it's a problem for you to think that in our views we've really expressed ourselves legally well, if we had any good intentions with anything. From the beginning, it's the intention of stopping this from mined together. Not only did it matter about any attitude or suggestion, because you led the committee. The debates lasted five hours. Someone came out after an hour and never came back to say the other day that we didn't talk about it, that they had no idea what it was about. Let's remember. When did you mention the need for regions and regionalisation if we are going to go honestly, if we are going to record Croatia's state today should pass through citizens' polls and ask what you benefit from your county as citizens of the county, what can you specifically accomplish and what your county has in the investment space of these defined budgets to enter your village, your municipality, your city, what is the benefit of it without any intention of implementing someone's hasty policy? You come from Istria some colleagues from Slavonia, from Dalmatia from any part of Croatia, any island even. Let's see how we can make the system more functional so our citizens can benefit from it, that's the only intention. It is not the intention of 2013 to destabilise Croatia, endanger constitutional law and destroy the system that exists. The question is, did the system that we built with independence, the structure of the state in '93, have been second circumstances, in 2013, the second one ate the system today in the first days of the EU and what does our citizens have out of it? This is the goal of our proposal for regions. Our political programme applies not only to Slavonia and Baranja but to all of Croatia, to all cities. So we are interested in how to live in Dalmatia, how to live in Istria, Zagreb, Međimurje, Bjelovar, we are all interested because it is our duty as a representative Thank you. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63282	Thank you. Followed by the replica of my colleague Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63283	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Two colleagues from the same club, one who needed a stronger microphone and another who could speak without a microphone on, have sacrificed 15 minutes 14.5 of their own to actually discuss and polarise with the HDZ club, not to talk about changes to the Constitution that are on the agenda. Of course, that freedom was made possible, especially when the intention was clear. However, I came forward because of a finding made by a respected counterpart, Salapic, interpreting that it would be final if I followed correctly that they had proposed in these constitutional changes to the region as a unit that necessarily meant replacing existing units. Well, given the misunderstanding, I'll read you what you actually suggested. You have proposed that in Article 134(2). The constitution states: The units of the district self-government are the counties and regions. The area of the county and the region is determined by law. As it says, we understand that with local self-government along with local self-government units that make up municipalities and cities, along with the county as units of the area, we now have regions as new units. That's what you wrote. And don't be surprised, Antun Branko Simic said that poets are a wonder in the world, MPs don't have such an epithet, nor lawyers, and then at least understand what you wrote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63284	Thank you very much. The Honorable Joseph Salapic corresponds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63285	Dear Representative Mlakar, I'm sure you'd understand me very well if you sat with me for five hours on the task force, and you sat for an hour and left. Therefore, if you had discussed on the task force what I explained, you would have had a different opinion. So I gave myself a break to devote 14.5 minutes to what I couldn't say there, but I said here in the assembly, so we got along very well. As far as the argument is concerned, what does the proposal mean for us to introduce regions in the Constitution, you know very well, and you understand very well that it is just a legal framework that needs to be discussed. We will make an effort as a party not to leave that dead letter on paper so we will write a proposal for a law on regions in the Republic of Croatia, and you will have as a representative of the conscience that you are completely in the Croatian Parliament and vice president of the club the possibility that on committees and in the Parliament you will discuss this with us. Whether it will be a good proposal or a bad one, it will depend on the expertise and quality of those representatives who discuss it, who know what should be said and what is good and what is not good. So, without any intention of personal recalling anyone that we sat together for five hours, and you didn't, I did, so we would talk about what the concept of the region means and what it means for Croatia's future. This way, let's not give ourselves a break to say things that don't stand. Once again, we have had many of these details to explain together both on regionalisation and on the referendum and on the work of the Parliament and on the issues concerning the European arrest warrant, we have had that there was good will. She didn't exist, and the only reason the HDSSB is on this thing these days is that 7 makes us the parliamentary majority. I wouldn't be surprised at some benefactors if we hadn't been driving around in the trunk somewhere far away without being in the Parliament. I wouldn't be surprised by the quality of the politicians and the policy that's talking about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63286	The next replica of my colleague, Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63287	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Salapic, you said in your replicas our intention must be one. You know, there is and that folk road to hell is filled with good intentions. The problem of the region, regional development has always been known and always recognised, and it is a real problem that cannot be avoided. In the first constitution, the Christmas Constitution of the '90s. It has already been taken into account and the County House is conceived as a place where regional development will be coordinated. And what happened? The amendments to the Constitution in 2002, if I am not mistaken, were deleted by one move without debate, without knowing what the consequences of such a decision were, and then the consequence of unequal regional development, not only because of that, but in any case, the absence of a seat of Parliament that would... a county home that would decide. Today we have the same situation. You said yourself that there are no expert analyses, professional judgments, you said yourself we saw here that the difference is from one county to the other whether it is acceptable or not to accept that regionalisation because it is not known simply to which it can go from federalization of Croatia to something else. All of this is not questioned, all of this is questionable and this is the problem of why the changes to this Constitution are being brought quickly without all the options being examined and all the consequences of it. And on the other hand, the existing definitions in the Constitution, the largest number of articles as you know how to delete the area, and in brackets it stands regionally, and now regionally deletes it, opens up enough space to access everything that you wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63288	Thank you. The replica corresponds to Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63289	Dear Representative Tudjman, we still have time to discuss the legal framework when it comes to special law, and you mentioned that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. I believe and I am sure and respect that your late father is alive, that he lived another year longer to be much, much different in Croatia, and the people around the president at the time and who used Croatia for some of their personal breakthroughs were destroying the same country. I was just last night trying to read your father's speech about the train of peace in Vukovar when he said that any narrow interest in the locals should be above all and that our future, the future of mutual co-existence, when we will discuss the views of the Serb national minority or Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality. And if we're going to talk about European Croatia, it's an interest that must be above all else. The main question that is raised with our proposals and discussion is whether what the HDSSB proposes is good for the better future of European Croatia, which your late father advocated. If we were able to cause conflicts between the two parties that must be the same worldview, on the same path Croatia, and this was launched just yesterday by HDZ, then we are all together in one wrong thinking about where we are. And we need to put our hand on the heart, so we can only admit one thing. The basic task for you all today and yesterday was to prevent the HDSBB from being a two-thirds majority in the Assembly and to exclude from it HDZ which has become an opposition to itself and which has excluded itself from it by its own will, and not by your will. Because we expected your participation in this and that's what I'm talking about. And our party and everything that's going on. And believe me, if we estimate on the HDSSB General Board that we are on the right track, we will do so at least some people will not understand it if it will be good for Croatia's future. Unfortunately, there are circumstances today, so let's also remember the former presidents of the party that at the time she made the key moves she couldn't assess, and the future doesn't mean what she was doing. And those of you who have been involved in all this today wonder where you are, what you are doing and where HDZ is going.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63290	Thank you. A new replica and respected Ivan Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63291	I took part in a working group meeting and I said some of my thoughts and observations, and now I'm going to repeat them. I agree with Mr Salapic on his presentation not taking into account this replica that happened with HDZ but in principle I support the regionalisation and decentralisation of Croatia without dogmatic and ideological exclusion and attitudes. Whether it's five or seven regions or six we'll see. I wanted to open up the debate which Mr. coat of arms said was the point. We are for regionalization, we are not for new centralised and metropolis. I am not because I come from Split to be the center of Dalmatia, let the cities develop each by their own means and resources. We don't need new centralised in the regions or metropolis. But I am in principle for the introduction of regions and decentralisation of funds, because the regions will come to life and Croatia will be stronger in total. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63292	The replica corresponds to Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63293	We have had opportunities to discuss everything on the working group, so I am glad that you have supported this issue of bringing the legal framework into the Constitution, the legal framework of the county and the region in a different way than before. And I am sure that in the time ahead of us, if this is going in the right direction, we should all be able to film the situation that is best for Croatia, regardless of what we may disagree on today in some of our views. Whether it will be 5 regions as proposed by the HDSSB or it will be more dependent on the evaluations of all those details relating to the full formation of a different territorial structure I repeat with the intention of doing good to our citizens regardless of what part of the Republic of Croatia they live in. The best poll is not only a referendum, but we can walk freely through any city not only in Slavonia, but still, and also with you in Split by municipalities around, to see what citizens have as a service from their units of local self-government. And that's fairest. Listen to the citizens' will they expect from politics, local administrations, self-government and what we can do as representatives and as parties to make our citizens a better life. And all this turning back and calling at some political ideological levels and saying that someone's attitude is vulgar trade because they have an attitude about something, and no one has anything on it, this has caused a different context of debates that should have been too much, which should have been professional and that should have led to better solutions in the Croatian Constitution. That's what we lost, and that's what the assembly turns into sometimes a stage, where everyone can give themselves the breath to talk nonsense whatever they want by accusing someone without even one too many reasons and an argument that someone wants bad Croatia. If someone who sits here wants bad for our country, it's his place on the street, not the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63294	Before we continue with the replicas of Josip Salapic, which has four more one notice. The chairman of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, counterpart Dinko Buric, informs the Committee that the 9th session of this committee was scheduled for today at 11.00 p.m. and will be held in the Chamber of Stjepan Radic. It's hall number 133. And now we continue with the replicas. It's my friend Davor Bozinović's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63295	Thank you very much. Mr. Salapic, you said that this debate should have gone wider, that it should have included the profession, and that is exactly one of the main objections that can be heard today, that it was in some way speeding up that it did not want to be extended to people who are professional in all this, and it also did not satisfy that requirement of the Law on the right to access information. You know, under that law, every user has the right to have equal information and equal terms to be familiar with it, and when it comes to new legal proposals, public debates are scheduled for 30 days. Here she was scheduled for 7 days and only after the Constitutional Court intervention was extended for another 7 days. So does that deserve a basic state act? You see, as far as I'm concerned, there are more, much more questions here today, and even with MPs who are willing to support these constitutional changes than there are answers. That's where things turn out. It is said that the regions will be decided by law, only then will the right debate be opened. We put them in the Constitution, I guess that debate should show whether this level of local self-government will also be foreseen in the Constitution. And here it was said to give an example of where the public debate lasted longer. Here I will recall yesterday's announcements by the Ministry of the Interior which opened a public debate on the future appearance of license plates in the Republic of Croatia that lasts a month. So citizens can think and discuss the registration tables for a month, I can't discuss the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63296	The replica corresponds to Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63297	Dear Mr. Bozinović, you have spent the same long years in diplomacy and your political attitude and the speech you speak is very moderate and polite. What you said, that's a public debate. On the basis of the Constitutional Court's conclusion, the HDSSB has just called on the working group to extend the public debate in the view of the court to the minimum legal minimum, which was 15 days. I personally advocated for 30 days on the working group, but since the minimum legal requirement was met and the the thematic session was which opened the public door in the Croatian Parliament and lasted 5 hours alone at the the thematic session, there were both constitutional and legal experts and representatives of the associations. I don't think there was anyone present who wrote a letter to the Constitutional Court to conclude that the public debate was too brief, which is also a little odd. But let's leave it to the circumstances of the time we live in. I agree with you that we should discuss as much as possible and involve the public as possible in some concrete legal proposals that our people should live better. But believe me, around the region, we've been talking for a month and a half in preparation for various meetings around the Constitution Committee and on the working group for days. Every day there was a session that lasted several hours related to the working group around it and I had the opportunity several times in writing and oral form to all the members of the working group while HDZ took part in this to explain what we are proposing. Written material has been available since October somewhere there when we started a working group for all parties clubs and so on to HDZ. And only yesterday did we hear the party's opinion on the issue of regionalisation of Croatia and the alleged thesis that it wants to bring down the constitutional and legal order. And let me remind you, once again, the abolition of the HDZ county home has not been accepted in 2001, and we are looking for a home for a region in the Parliament that is very similar to that of the former County House that HDZ protected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63298	Thank you. Now we'll hear the replica of our colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63299	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Salapic was a little uncomfortable to me, and I was particularly sorry to hear you try to help defend yourself against the godless attack of the HDZ against you personally and on the HDSSB. You know very well that yesterday at the HDZ press, he did not attack you, and especially he did not accuse you of treason as it was said for this speaker. Therefore, this is exactly the kind of speech that I have experienced as your discomfort because, on the way to supporting this Constitution, you are not being followed by the HDZ. It's almost as if you're sorry we didn't get involved in where you were at HDZ, why do you think you weren't at these discussions? Well, I guess that's what the HDZ club's gonna decide on. And you don't have to regret anything. We have assessed that this process of adopting the Constitution is entirely inappropriate to the importance of a fundamental state act and that these changes that are offered are not exactly solved by the problems that you think will be solved. You're saying that it would be extremely unsatisfactory of the HDSSB club if he suggested that regions be included in the Constitution which would mean more of a parish than the President of the Republic wrote in his letter. But you yourself confirm you don't know what the future region is going to be. You say it will only be known when the debate is held, when the law is passed, when powers are established. So we'll change the Constitution one more time. Well, then we'll take out the county and then we'll redefine what the region is. So, if the majority position, the political position that Croatia should be regionalised, then this regionalism should be manifested at all levels, and not in this way volunteering, we need regions. What's he gonna be like? That's what we'll know. I'm against us going to the Constitution with an idea whose reach we don't know and don't know. And that's the fundamental thing when we talk about regions. And there are other changes to the Constitution that we fundamentally disagree with at the HDZ Club and I don't know why you should expect our support on this project of yours to support this Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63300	Here is Joseph Salapic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63301	Thank you, Vice President. I didn't expect your support for anything at all, I don't regret anything, and at least I regret what the HDSSB Club thinks about it today. If I was sorry, if I thought my place was there, I wouldn't have gone. I went on my own so you wouldn't kick me out as Mrs. Kosor. And I know where I went and I know what I'm doing, and you were the party's secretary-in-chief. And now I'm going back to the political debate. The attack on HDSSB is not random and I know where it comes from, and I know who's behind it, and I wouldn't want to open any further fronts where you don't need it first, so I'll be polite. No ill intention of our proposal regarding constitutional changes has ever gone towards anyone, and at least to the club you belong to. We have responsibly understood our duty as representatives who come from Slavonia and Baranja to propose what is a political programme of the HDZB as a party that acts primarily in Slavonia and Baranja but has something to say about national issues when it comes to key national interests. We didn't at any point, we didn't think of anything, anyone being dragged into something he didn't want. As your club will adopt a position on HDZ's position, the HDSSB's main board will adopt its position on the HDSSB club and on our work and on the proposed changes to the Republic of Croatia's Constitution. This is no regret but it was a debate in terms of contributing to what citizens expect of us as serious political parties. If the level of expertise of the debate on some issue will be brought down to plantings and the accusations of those who have made any suggestion for two months, and one day before he remembered that it is not good, then we ask further questions about what this is all about and what this attitude is now and what we are talking about today and I have not regretted anything, God forbid I regret it, but I am leaving the times of fate to us and our party and our Slavons and Baranians where we come from will best assess what we are saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63302	Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63303	Dear fellow Salapic, you have said one sentence in fact, referring to your basic debate as if I had nothing better to do at the age of 37 to protect the refugees. Those who will raise their hands for these changes to the Constitution have been declared protectors of the refugees, protectors of the criminals. I'm also asking, am I not better at business than I'm likely to raise my hand to change the Constitution than to protect the criminals and the refugees. But I wonder what these people have been doing for 23 years, 20 years. Why are they with them as they say they were creating a state. Which in the previous eight years has not done what the SDP authorities and the Kukuriku coalition have now done wrong, supported by part of the opposition. It does not mean that those who will raise their hand, I speak for themselves, the hand to change the Constitution, that they have been coming down with the Kukuriku coalition, which the relationship of power is seen here and in the Parliament and is seen in the content of the debate, which is what the club and the parliamentary representative stands for. So you mentioned here and in your illustration of why these people did not advocate the illustration of the 1990s and who would rule all these years in the Croatian state if an illustration was carried out?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63304	The replica corresponds to Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63305	Well, dear colleague Vuksic, I don't know who would rule this country, but perhaps it would be better for Croatia if we were to be honest. We have had so many problems and you are one of the representatives who actively works at the club and discuss professional and important topics for Croatia. We have had so many problems and so many laws concerning both the financial and economic, investment and VAT and various other life issues from which citizens should know what awaits them tomorrow. And remember yourself, in any debate that has nothing to do with the past, some of the MPs can't wait to mention the past, let's go mention partisans, Ustashas, Chetniks, let's go talk about costumes, let's go dig out who was protecting whom, let's go out and work out where whoever we are in the Croatian term of a government is talking about the past. No one said a single word about the future, nothing concrete, nothing professional, who fired more nonsense, that was smarter. And when you come home, open the newspaper shame on you sitting in the highest Croatian home. I've said that a few times. Sometimes MPs there when they go down at the time when the work of representatives in the Croatian Parliament was respected mentioned by the High Honorary House, High Honorary Parliament, and today you have your position, say you are a fool. You vote for a better future in Croatia, they say you betrayed Croatia just because we don't want to be attached to someone, we have an opinion on something. We turn out to be fools and those who hide behind other people's backs and those who are responsible for betraying Croatia in some important things are silent about it. Those who have more information than you and I use it for their position. Is that an honest and just Croatia? Well, at least go all the way down, we're sitting here, we need to tell the truth. So we have nothing to fear, we answer, those who chose us and the shame of how humanity got lost, how did respect get lost, how did people look at each other, is that better Croatia? This is the Parliament that will put Croatia in a new time. Unfortunately not.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63306	The latest replica of Josip Salapic comes from his counterpart Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63307	Thank you very much. Comrade Salapic, you have said well that this constitutional change has actually opened the way for regionalisation and fiscal decentralisation of the fundamental provisions of the Statute and the HDSSB Declaration. So, when we support this position, I must say that there are 240 municipalities and cities in Croatia today that can cover more than 75% of the costs of their own income, which cannot cover, excuse me and there are 170 municipalities, cities and counties that can cover less than 50% of the costs of their own income. Is that a real picture of today's Croatia? Is this a real division of local and regional self-government? And what does she bring? 75 thousand and 661 employees are in municipalities, cities and counties. We're not talking about abolishing the county, and I don't know what it is, but about a new territorial and administrative reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia. Now, all of a sudden, HDZ found itself protecting the letter of Mr. President of the Republic, he was suddenly on the side and I guess that article in connection with the marriage that the people plebiscitely voted. Suddenly HDZ is on the side of the President of the Republic. About Cyrillic not to talk, signed by their president and then not too much and no... justifying his own procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand...]] There's a series called Eve Stivicica, he knows better Mr. Stazic, he's from this thing called Where Wild Pigs Go, but I wouldn't talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63308	Comrade Grubisic, I give you a warning because you know you deserve it. The replica corresponds to Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63309	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a replica of what he said. My colleague Grubisic and I, together at the club of representatives as a party, have participated, supported those moments in the past few months on the most important key issues that have arisen as problems. Unfortunately, we weren't completely understandable. When the issue of Vukovar and the events in Vukovar opened, we were the first party to seek an extraordinary session of the Parliament, which called for Mr Milanovic, the prime minister for dialogue in Vukovar, who signed a request for the Croatian Parliament to discuss it and who we gave our hand not to someone but to our citizens and defenders and local authorities, but also to Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality because we wanted the problem to be resolved. We gave our hand when it came to national interests, when it comes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the bulky apparatus of the local administration that is suffocating the state budget. We've given our hand to talk about it, not that it has to be, but to talk and we won't stop. Let anyone attack us, let them think of our stranger, think of us whoever they want. We will represent the interests of Slavonia and Baranja, but not only Slavonia and Baranja, but the entire Republic of Croatia. I think it's matured time, so as advocates and politicians, we give our hand to those who expect us to support in times of difficulty. If the government currently leading Croatia has done something good in one move, then we as the responsible party will say, it is good for Croatia. But we also expect from the government, when we propose something, as is the need for Croatia's regionalisation, if that's good, to accept it from us. No government, counterpart Grubisic, will be good enough if there is no quality opposition and if the opposition is not a correction of a capable authority or incompetent. That depends on the election. If the opposition will go against itself, then the question is what is Croatia's policy doing for Croatia's future? Nothing. And that's our party's job to change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63310	Thank you. Now they're following up on that part of Dinko Buric's exposure. First Furio Radin. Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63311	Thank you very much. The first thing I agree with Mr Buric is that regionalisation is Croatian value. And the Constitution is a place of value. And now of all the things I disagree with, I'll choose two. The first is that Mr Buric said Croatia should be divided into five regions in Croatia. Here we have high school students from Pula, everyone will tell you that Croatia should be divided into six or more regions because in Pula and every child knows it. And I especially disagree on the question of bilingualism. If we agree that the Constitution is a place of value, then we must also agree that discrimination is not worth it. And don't talk to me from the discrimination of the majority that's a contradiction. Discrimination is always a discrimination of the minority, and if the Constitution is a place of value then you'll actually be the first to say, if you agree with me, you'll be the first to say that there should be no speech in the Constitution, there should be a speech in the law, and the law is already clear on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63312	The replica matches Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63313	Thank you. As far as I'm concerned, let's do the first part, good thing you're getting along with me on something. Divided into five regions, I presented the HDSB's position and proposal. Whether it will be five regions or it will be six, seven, it is a matter for discussion in the Croatian Parliament, for discussion and for the entire Croatian public. But when we talk about dividing into five regions, we are not only a club, but a whole party, so HDSSB. When it comes to bilingualism, I am against every form of discrimination. And not just me, but the entire HDSSB club. But when we talk about bilingualism, then there is again to be reminded of what the HDSSB club has been doing since the beginning when Cyrillic is like a problem that appeared in Vukovar, a really burdensome burden for the entire Republic of Croatia. Cyrillica in Vukovar is not a place and we, as a club, have proposed to discuss this in the Croatian Parliament, to hold a debate. We sent a proposal, it stands, but it's at the bottom of the agenda. And we agree that this should be regulated here, that there is good will and those who advocate the Cyrillic in Vukovar, then this problem could have been solved long ago and that is one of the biggest faults of the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic, which he does not want to discuss here where the debate is. However, discrimination certainly does not.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63314	Thank you. You can't go any further. Next replica, Dragan Montenegrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63315	It was interesting for me to watch the club exhibit I gave the replica to because at first, it was exhibited in a way to constructively explain why the party involved in the working group, the working group for the change of the Republic of Croatia, also called for legal order in this opportunity. But after that, they were presented, and I think that's good, and then there were some false things that made me come forward, and that's what I'd say, so first, something that shouldn't have been in the exposed club. So, the Abolition Act, I would ask that when you speak of certain things, you speak honestly and truthfully. The Abolition Act doesn't include war crimes and those people who committed war crimes. After that, you mentioned dr. Vojislav Stanimirovic, who is not a war criminal who is not or will likely be tried for war crimes, but has been attacked by many because he participated in war integration and wanted peace. And that's probably why some people attack him. Nine reports were filed against him various DORH, but the DORH did not normally accept it because there was no real and valid evidence. After that, you crossed over and condemned all Serbs, so to speak, in Croatia at the end to Cyrillic, perhaps Cyrillic should have been the first, not the last in this series. But I'm calling you as a man, Mr. Buric, is this debate really not going anywhere, is this not good, is it really not good to base your discussions in a different way and in another direction, really well-meaning and as a colleague in the Parliament but as a man above all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63316	The answer is Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63317	Okay. There's no false, there's no truth, sometimes there's pain. It is true that the Abolition Law has allowed many who were to be declared war criminals not to be tried and not declared war criminals. Not being apostropheist or not wanting to prejudge whether someone is or isn't, I give my personal opinion about it. When it comes to Mr. Stanimirovic, mentioned correctly, I have said you have the credit for reintegration, but I and many Croatians and many of the victims of Vukovar as well as their children and generations will remember this same Mr. Stanimirovic in the sentence of the 18th November 1991 "Today the last Ustasha stronghold has fallen," the moment when criminal JNA and the large Serb troops escorted them into the hospital. And that's the fact that it's the truth that will remain remembered when it comes to Dr. Vojislav Stanimirovic. I'm not a judge, so I won't take the right to say whether he should be or shouldn't be, the abolition has done its part. I didn't mention the Serbian people or Serbs with a single word. That you recognized someone when I said there was a minority who caused a bloody war in the Republic of Croatia 23 years ago and that despite this, we as a party protect the rights of every minority and those minorities, but as much as the law allows by not allowing any minority or that minority to be held hostage by the Croatian majority because of the protection of their laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63318	And the last replica in this series of Ivan Simunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63319	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Buric, you have told a lie and a lie in your exposure to the damages of my Croatian party's right to Dr. Ante Starcevic. You said HSP councilmen were Dr. Ante Starcevic raised his hands for the Cyrillic in Vukovar which is not true. If you don't know HSP Dr. Ante Starcevic has been registered in the register of political parties at the Ministry of Administration for a whole year behind that decision you're talking about. You know very well how HSP councilman Dr. Ante Starcevic voted in the City Council of Vukovar a month ago and what our position on the city of Vukovar and Cyrillic is in it. That's why I'd like to ask you not to bring lies to the expense of my party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63320	The replica matches Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63321	Here I apologize... /The speaker ruled out./...the finding that at the time the hands for the adoption of such a statute were raised by the City Council Council of the City of Vukovar from the ranks of HDZ and HSP, that stands the finding. So here's the side you're right about. But I'm going to add something else, there's no need to hide the fact that today one of the leaders who then raised his hand, and was in HSP today is in HSP Dr. Ante Starcevic. But on the side, he's right to stand your remark here it was an inequitable lapus.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63322	We are now continuing to discuss the clubs, so I will speak to my colleague, Jadranka Kosor, on behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor, on behalf of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63323	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I will try to return in the debate to what is the draft amendment to the Constitution, so that what we should talk about today is certainly more so that all those who follow and the course of the session can learn more from the firsthand about what we really want here or, of course, do not want to change. So those who want what they want, those who don't want what they stand for. Two, three principled findings, the Constitution has always changed in this Parliament in the same way, that someone has encouraged changes to the Constitution and that these changes have been discussed and that, of course, it has legitimately tried to create a two-thirds majority, so most of the MPs who, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, have been authorised to change the Constitution and then have been consulted. That's how it's always been, it certainly involved both interested and every other public. This was the case in 2010 when we had to change the Constitution so that we could continue negotiations for Croatia's entry into the EU because we couldn't pass some of the laws until we changed the Constitution, and we were trying first and foremost in the Government that encouraged the amendments to the Constitution to bring together a sufficient majority, so we included all the parties and, of course, it happened that as a topic of constitutional change had become and some that were not originally the nucleus to be agreed on, so those members of the Constitution that had to be changed because of the EU. So we also came up with a proposal that was not at all part of any of our chapters that we negotiated about the vote of Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia, but of course we also talked about it and tried to reach a consensus, and we finally agreed on it. He was who he was, but once the consensus was reached, then he was valid for everything and was built into the Constitution. That's what it seems to me this time, no matter what we did at the beginning, some of us stayed in the assembly, some of us went out, it's all the same now. However, the fact is that the Commission was founded, that representatives of all clubs were elected to the commission, which I think is good because they are not only clubs from parties of those who can, they have the right to discuss any proposal and the proposal of the constitution, but also those who are impartial. So all MPs are equally important and equally valuable. The commission is since I was on behalf of my club member I can say good work, conscientiously worked, some worked more, some worked less, but at the very beginning and to this I want to warn a table like this was made. In that table were all the proposals that were made in the debate, so in the previous step, all the proposals, the proposals that came from the sides, the proposals of the members and members of the Committee on the Constitution, all and individual and clubs, and that can be seen here. Therefore, every proposal has been discussed absolutely. What is also important to say that the commission is, at the very beginning, unanimously as I recall it made a decision that in these changes the Constitution does not enter into the original foundations and that was very good. So at the very beginning, we agreed not to touch in that part of the Constitution even though in 2010 we changed the original foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Remember, we counted the names of all minorities and brought in victory in the Homeland War, that is, everything Croatian defenders have done. As representatives of all clubs worked in the commission, so MPs and MPs elected in the elections, I refuse that this commission was unqualified to discuss and make decisions. It was said here that we who did so were unqualified because it could then be said that the entire Croatian Parliament was unqualified because here, I can't count how many lawyers who would probably be worthy to discuss it, but we're all qualified and the commission I repeat worked well, discussed well. Some have come and gone, and some have sat from beginning to end, but of course it's a matter of access to every member, every committee, every MP, so all of us who have been elected here and who can for four years not come or 6-7 months don't come, say anything or say something, and that's why we're getting paid here. It's a choice of each of us, and when we draw a line after four years, we will answer to those who voted for us. The Nucleus of these changes that we are most discussed of course was not an obsolescence of severe murders. I also said in the previous debate here, since in 2010 in the amendments to the Constitution we accepted initiatives, they were both from the government and from the then leading ruling party, but certainly also from the opposition, so there was some consensus about it, although it was not related to the original task of amending the Constitution, we entered the non-determination of converted crime or war profiting into the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So I said in the previous debate, I'm going to repeat now that you have on one side the non-depreciation of the crimes of those who stole, who robbed and on the other side of the murder, means those who took lives, then here and that provision deserves to be incorporated into the Constitution. There were different suggestions. In this regard, it was discussed, but the majority in this commission decided that this particular formulation, which came at the end of the government, as can be seen in this table, was proposed for discussion. Some of us, specifically Mr. Lesar, on behalf of the Labour Club and in the first debate here at the Assembly, and then on behalf of my club and in our own personal request, we have asked ourselves to say ultimatically that this provision on the non-adhesive killings comes into effect on the same day as the amended law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the countries of the European Union. And that's why we've debated a lot about removing any suspicion that the amendment to this constitution would follow the protection of anyone who may be suspected or suspected, I won't mention any names at all because it's irrelevant, so to protect anyone that he's committed any kind of murder, of course, which is driven by political motives. And this initiative is as you can see accepted, and it is now in the draft draft amendments to the Constitution. I think it was important to discuss first and foremost what we all missed together in 2010 by the ruling and then opposition. About the provisions of the referendum, of course. We are then without any fear of saying it here today, out of fear, that the great work we have done in the accession negotiations may not be recognized in the referendum. We have facilitated the procedure in the referendum by amending the Constitution, and then, of course, in the referendum on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. That's when we all did it together in our best intentions, absolutely in our best intentions. And now it is unnecessary to go back into the past and none would make sense, but I think we all, from all sides to the left and the right and the top and the bottom, have in the meantime concluded that the referendum should be strengthened in a legal sense as a possibility, as an institution and in the Constitution to facilitate that process in the collection of signatures and it is here now before us. So, that a hundred percent less signatures must be collected than so far, but we have agreed and agreed to some questions, and in particular now in this proposal we are talking about all those issues and principles and values in Chapter II. and Chapter III. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia cannot put them on a referendum and cannot change them in the Constitution in a referendum with of course all the best that each of us thinks about the direct decision of all citizens. Which is actually in Chapter II. and in Chapter III. It would be good to remind you of that in this debate. So, for example, the Republic of Croatia is a unique, indivisible, democratic, social state. So, I don't think there's anyone who would question the possibility that someone in the referendum is changing it, that sovereignty is inalienable, that in Croatia it is in the power of the government's trinity. Why can’t we expect that one day someone collects signatures and that one in three pillars of government is abolished? That the establishment of political parties is free, that borders cannot be changed. In the Constitution, it is clear in that Chapter II. It also speaks of the coat of arms of the Republic of Croatia, and in Chapter III. Among other things, Article 14 which I would like to say in accordance with Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which describes all the values that are written there and the basis for interpreting the entire Constitution, but also what I think is crucial for all of us and for every citizen and every citizen and every Croat and every Croat and every member of all national minorities, is that we are all equal before the law. So, and that's what we're proposing right now to be talking about the task force that the Constitution can't change. So, not in a referendum or in any other way. It is, of course, mentioned in that Chapter III. what, at least looking at the composition and this Parliament, I think no one or almost no one is questionable, and that is that there is no death penalty. So it's the same thing that we've defined ourselves for many days and years ago. So this is proposed in those issues and in that package of questions that would not be changed to, we could not change in the referendum. As regards the proposal, i.e. letters sent to the Croatian Parliament by the President of the Republic of Croatia. I propose, therefore, because the president clearly says that he supports the amendments to the Constitution in their fundamental idea. I propose that this letter, or these proposals, be reviewed once again by the President of the Republic, by the Commission, with all members and members of the Commission, and then by the Committee on the Constitution. The proposals are very interesting. There are proposals that I would immediately agree to install in the amendments to the Constitution, and I will now not specify. Therefore, I suggest we consider them in detail. There's time for that. And finally, colleagues and colleagues, I suggest that, in further discussion, we really talk as much as possible about the essence of what is proposed to change in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia so that we do not really confirm what one of our fellow representatives in the Croatian Parliament said the other day at a meeting, he said, quote that the Croatian Parliament is a ship of lunatics. I believe in this debate we will in no way prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63324	Thank you. Now we move on to replicas. My colleague Josip Salapic first called, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63325	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mrs Kosor, you spent your days with us in the Working Group for the Change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and when you mentioned the expertise of all members of the working group, I think you played your part in it as former Prime Minister, and let us remember the constitutional changes in 2010. Any one who says that the regulation of the referendum issue if it was brought we know why because we were afraid in 2010 that the referendum for Croatia's entry into the EU would fail because of the circumstances that were then in Croatia and that was justified at the time. Today, after three years, this should certainly have changed the questions that are being allowed to go to the referendum sometimes can be misunderstood. We advocate in the party that no right should be limited to Croatian citizens, and that if the legal conditions are met, a referendum should be called on to enable citizens to do so on issues that are of interest to our citizens. What is positive and you have returned the debate to a quieter tone and that is good, and you have personally felt what it means when someone treats you after years of working in politics, you can best assess it because since the time of the late President Tudjman you have participated in the most important national and important political interests for Croatia. I think it's been a good trip and the work of this task force. What you mentioned at the end of the Croatian President and his contribution to the Croatian Parliament I fully think that the President of Croatia, Mr Josipovic, who certainly as a criminal law professor, has something to say about this should have done much earlier. Because he is the president who has these powers to be involved in any political, economic, national minority issue, the issue of economic in Croatia, investment should and must be included. Because then what's the role of president. However, this way of involving our party and our club is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63326	Another replica, Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go. And I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Come on, answer me, excuse me. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63327	Yeah, I'm sorry, I didn't raise the plate, but I raised my hand, so I think you can appreciate that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63328	Here I would beg all my colleagues here and my colleague Filipovic objected to me if we hadn't recorded him. Please let us make eye contact to see that we play by the rules. And please raise the plate, it's not enough to raise your hand. Now, let's be correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63329	Yeah, I agree. I'll do it in the future if I need to get up and get up when I answer for the replica. So, I agree, I'll start with this last pal, Salapic. I agree that the President of the Republic has sent his remarks at the last moment at this stage. But the President of the Republic is the President of the Republic and he's an institution, he's one of the mandated proposings, and I don't think I'm going to say a minimum of decency but what's normal in the functioning of the Parliament when the law changes over the laws, and that's the Constitution, to consider peace. And I think the right place is exactly the task force, so then certainly the committee, in peace and together with what the president is proposing. No matter when his proposals arrived. And as for the reminders of 2010 that negotiations, i.e. talks and arrangements on changes to the Constitution when trying to reach a valid majority are never simple. But I really, with bitterness, reject any qualifications on political trade. It's disgusting and it's... it's... it's disgusting and it's... Because, of course, it can be further supported by arguments. But the work of those who work so as to propose, as you know the proposal that I haven't even talked about, a proposal in front of my club that we're pleased to accept, a proposal about the Parliament working more, that now the Constitution doesn't say that the Parliament can't work for three months but that we can work when we have to, this proposal as you know, because you were a member of the working group we've been considering on several occasions and some colleagues didn't even want to talk about it because they said it was pointless and unnecessary. And in the end, if the amendments to the Constitution are passed, we will still work harder.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63330	Replica, Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63331	Dear Mr. Vice President, my colleague Kosor, I didn't know that you and your colleague Salapic wrote a proposal to amend the Constitution according to the Supreme Instructions of Peđa Grbin but well, I will address you because I didn't want Salapic, he's still young and he doesn't understand anything, and you've passed those great political schools, so I hope you understand me. This is not, my discussions are not discussions about the past, but this proposal to change the Constitution is an explicit proposal to discuss the past, about killings that don't get old. Both you and Salapic and everyone here is the proposal of the Constitution motivated and initiated by the past and for clearing things up in the past. And I'm not talking about the past, I'm talking about the agenda. And colleague Kosor, no, he's more than once apostropheed me through my colleague Kosor, so I told him, yes. So, you colleagues Kosor don't seem to be a little principled either. At the time when the SDP did not give a change to the Constitution, it demanded a reduction of the rights of Croats in emigration and so we are not all in Croatia and in this country the same. Now we must not touch national minorities, and we must not or should not, but we must suppress Croats, we must reduce Croatian rights. And you agreed to that. That should never have been agreed to, so they never joined the EU. And not all in Croatia are the same, there is positive discrimination. And let it be, but it should be known that it exists because I need 20 thousand votes, and for someone out there at that club... Maybe 21 votes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the way you got involved, you were talking about the past and what the other one suggested. As far as I know, you've proposed working time regulation in the Parliament, then you could suggest working hours for restaurants in the Parliament and the menu. There's so much about what I understand in the media, your contribution to constitutional change.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63332	This way, if you report to your colleague Kosor, you cannot replicate Salapić just because you did not answer the line while he was speaking because you were probably afraid of the answer to that replica. Play by the rules. The simplest thing is to play by the rules. It'll be easier for everyone. We now have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63333	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's your honor, Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are responsible for Mrs Kosor's replication of me in fact. He had the opportunity to replicate and he would get an answer to his replica, so I call on the representative to contribute to the work of the Croatian Parliament while the professional topics in the Assembly and the law to read the Rules of Procedure and to teach him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63334	Okay, I just warned you. And now I'm asking everyone, so don't let us share our warnings here. Why don't we stick to the Rules of Procedure? Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63335	This is my last replica to Mr. Marasovic on any further provocations of him because I think it absolutely makes no sense anymore. Because right now I've just found out that accepting an agreement on the voting quota in the 11th constituency is solely me. And of course HDZ had nothing to do with it. And therefore, of course, I won't answer to Mr. Marasovic because his insults about me and my club proposing something that could continue in the proposal, which could be with the Assembly restaurant etc., speak very, very much. So, Mr. Marasović, and apparently he doesn't speak for himself, he doesn't want the Croatian Parliament to work more than he wants, of course, some of them not to come, some of them can't discuss but of course I can get paid here. Therefore, I will no longer answer to this question, just another colleague, Marasovic, because he was so funny under quotes, he wanted me to say that Mr Salapic and I have rewritten the amendments to the Constitution. I would like to mention that Mr. Grbin, Mr. Seksa's working group vice president, Mr. Radin, Pupovac, Sponza, Salapić, Beus-Richembergh, Lesar, Mlakar, Kosor, Sobol, Cvetović and Grubišić were sitting in that commission. But apparently they were all decorations there and Salapic and Kosor cheered, dressed and then finally thanked for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63336	Thank you. I agree with you that speaking in this House, we're not just talking about agenda points, we're talking about ourselves. Next replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63337	I'm sorry, Vice President, I didn't hear you. Dear colleagues Kosor should only be able to tell you at the beginning of his replica that in 2010 Croatian Labourers were not prevented from participating in constitutional changes, which is, for example, in these constitutional changes to representatives who did not have clubs and all clubs allowed to participate, so a more democratic procedure has been implemented this time than it was in 2010. You're the one who ripped us off to do more work. Croatian Labourists have torn to settle the matter of a referendum on the welfare of the state, society and all citizens. If it's a store, I agree to be a merchant, because what you fought for, we also advocated in our discussions and supported what you stood for during the work on constitutional change. I'd like to refer in a way. You were talking about whether people who have worked on constitutional changes, whether they are professional or not? Should only lawyers participate in this or constitutional experts. First of all, it needs to be clarified because of the Croatian public not because of it. All clubs, all agents working are consulted with experts. Here, when we speak, we speak on the basis of the consultations we have with the experts. We are general-type politicians and we need knowledge that others have when we talk about some specific problems. So you wouldn't think of the citizens that what was said was really based on the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63338	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63339	Thank you very much. Yes, of course I think it is very, very bad to talk about a working body because this working group, or commission, was the working body of the Croatian Assembly, not some NGO association, but the Croatian Parliament that was elected here, which was given the authority, which was given the part-round of its work to declare it incompetent. Although it's all I repeat, and I just said it to the representatives of all clubs, regardless of whether they're party or non-party. By this logic I repeat once again that the entire Croatian Parliament could be said to be incompetent, to discuss anything, therefore incompetent because here I do not know about the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, who can discuss it? The Croatian Parliament. Can we all, and we who aren't doctors, we can. Why? Because we're talking about real life, because we're talking about living people, so I imagine the work of a Parliamentarian and, of course, each of us who participated in this working group, but I guess who's doing quality preparation and something here is being consulted, being tested, constantly asking, constantly talking to those who of course know more in a particular area. That's how it's always been done, of course, by those who want to work and do their job as the Republic of Croatia requires.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63340	Now we're going to hear the replica of a colleague named Vladimir Shakespeare, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63341	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Kosor, you presented and commended the work of the Committee's working group and presented that all opinions and suggestions could have been discussed that they had been discussed, that they had the opportunity to discuss on the working group and on the committee. But for the sake of one whole true representation of things, it is necessary to say that only the club of representatives of the HDZ, its proposals for a change of constitution were excluded from considering at the session of the Committee on the Constitution. How? On 26 June this year, the HDZ Representatives' Club proposed and handed over a proposal to the president of the Croatian Parliament to approach the amendment of the Constitution with a draft amendment to the Constitution on non-depreciation of crime, killings committed during the communist regime. This proposal for a change of the Constitution included in the agenda of the session of the Croatian Parliament and today is under item 27 in the agenda of the session of the Croatian Parliament. So, this is a proposal to approach the amendment of the Constitution according to the draft amendment of the Constitution. At one of the meetings of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, my colleague, Mlakar and I have proposed to include in the agenda the debate on the proposal of the HDZ Club to approach the amendment of the Constitution. With six votes in favour and four against, the Constitutional Committee rejected the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club to discuss the mandated proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives at the meeting of the Constitutional Committee. This was the reason why there was abandonment, more and a session in the Committee's work and meetings in the work of the section. About All Suggestions and all initiatives, just let me finish, all proposals and initiatives were discussed at the working group session and the Constitutional Committee, except for the mandated proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives. [[Well, fellow Shex, we can't do that right now.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63342	Replica response, esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63343	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Shakespeare, dear Vlado. I spoke precisely about what I know and what I was involved in, and that's how the task force worked. So I didn't talk about how the Constitutional Committee worked because I'm not a member of the Constitution Committee, but I was talking about how a working group worked in which all clubs were representatives in the Croatian Parliament. And I mentioned at the pay phone that at the beginning of our work there was a table that I thought was a very good start, in which all the proposals were, meaning the HDZ club, but also your personal discussion where you mentioned possible other crimes that we could introduce to the outside. So it was also in the table and it was the same subject that we were supposed to discuss. As well as the proposal of my club where we asked for it to be here, the Parliament works more and that only Parliament as an institution has limited time in the Constitution, that there is neither the Prime Minister nor the Prime Minister nor the Constitutional Court, but only the Parliament. So, we have proposed, and you have read, with each session of this committee a record has been made that you can read, and you have presented as representatives of your club with regard to the proposal for an amendment to Article 79. The Constitution, therefore, is this article which states that the Assembly must not work for 3 months, the working group president has proposed, with which members of the working group, except for members Vladimir Seks and a member of Davorin Mlakar, who expressed the view that it is not necessary to amend that article, agreed. And that they were prepared then because we couldn't agree on the final proposal for this article, but then there were alternatives to the proposal for a constitution. So I wasn't talking about what it was like on the Constitution Committee, so I don't know, but at the working assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63344	Let's stick to time. Let's try that. The new replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63345	Yeah, I'm sorry. Okay. Thank you very much. Your colleagues Kosor were also talking about the proposals and thoughts we received on the bench yesterday from the President of the Republic and your assessment was in line with your thoughts on it. Neither the HDSSB club nor I personally deny the right, thank God, to the President of the Republic in particular, but neither should we be denied the right to discuss this, the proposal. So we too have the right to express our opinion, our position on the content of this proposal. And secondly, you spoke of the boundaries and the invariability of the borders written in the Constitution, as recorded in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. But you were also prime minister and former prime ministers, we still have unresolved border issues with neighbouring countries. Here, Bosnia and Herzegovina, near Bihac, near Neum, at Croatia's Kostanica, with Montenegro, is certain not to say a dispute about the Prevlak peninsula where the agreement signed by Mr Mesic with the Montenegrin president is still not being tabled and the situation is not yet known. So, how can we even put that borders are immutable, I don't mean war, aggression and border change, but still undefined borders, and we have to figure that out. Then how are we going to define the borders of the Republic of Croatia if there is a constitutional obstacle in the Croatian Constitution?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63346	The replica matches Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63347	It's something else. Namely, it stands in Chapter 3, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and since the proposal is in this draft that it cannot be changed in a referendum, so by direct decision, then of course, it is clear in itself. And I agree with you that we still have a lot of unresolved questions and that it's time to start dealing with it. I couldn't agree more. As far as the President of the Republic is concerned, I have taken the initiative to consider his proposals and to discuss it once more with this competent working group, but of course and then the Constitutional Committee, and the final decision will be made by representatives and MPs with their votes. But I think it would be very bad to skip his proposals however perhaps in the beginning with some, especially at the very beginning of the proposal of the President of the Republic of Croatia, which is, by the way, what we see from all of us politicians on the political scene, and that should be appreciated, it is not negligible, the person that citizens think is best at doing their job. It's a matter of polling, but it's a matter of opinion from citizens and citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63348	The last replica of Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63349	Thank you very much. Your colleagues Kosor said in your discussion that the borders were established may be Article 8 that the borders of the Republic of Croatia can only be changed by a decision of the Croatian Parliament. I will remind you that our border with Serbia, and in the amount of 10,000 hectares, is not defined and we are particularly concerned about the people of Kenya. But also this year, although Article 11 is defined as both the coat of arms and the flag, we all know when it took clarifications around the colour and some details on the coat of arms and flag that there was uncertainty and there was a defined change and definition of coat of arms and flags. Therefore, even after 23 years in Croatia, much has not been defined yet and so is the Constitution, and it is certain that details should always be made and arranged, and detail is not the specific limit with Serbia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63350	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63351	Right, I agree with you, neither coat of arms nor flag nor an anthem. For me, however, it is always devastating often at different gatherings here in the political and pre-political life I guess I don't know hundreds of thousands of times I've been to meetings where the Croatian anthem is singing or playing or singing, and the vast majority of those present don't know the words of the Croatian anthem. And then, among other things, he always sings "Teci Savo, Dravo run" together, and a small part of the right "Teci Dravo, Savo run". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63352	Now we'll continue the club debate. In the name of the Croatian Labourists, the respected Dragutin Lesar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63353	Dear colleagues and colleagues. The debate on these constitutional changes is under the impression and reluctances as a result of a deep ideological division that lasts several months in Croatia, and one of the reasons is the current one, and another is the current referendum. Maybe that's good, because it made us understand what changes we have to make with the constitution, but it's a bad debate not only today in this hall but also in the Croatian public and more emotional than content. Yesterday we discussed the Pension Insurance Act and the debate ended less than four hours. We will discuss this not only today but also next week again, so all those who agree to discuss the future when the Labour Act comes on the agenda I expect to be in this Chamber and to have a debate lasted deep into the night. I would just like to mention that on the eve of this debate yesterday, the HDZ Club gave a public lecture to all those of the opposition who agreed to participate in the preparation of constitutional changes, a lesson on morality, honesty and democracy. We were accused of being approached in the process because of particular and scrupulous interests. If the regulation of the legal framework is a referendum and a scrawny interest, I look forward to such an accusation. Only those who point to you are unaware of something and say it's a sale, that I'm acting like them. I would now ask, and who has been sold to and for whom and how many juridical men since 2010, when the Constitution was changed, the erasure of exit quotas in the referendum, changed the procedure for the election of judges of the Constitutional Court, and since then we cannot choose the 13th Judge of the Constitutional Court, the Law on the referendum was not passed, but constitutional amendments were directly applied to the referendum for Croatia's entry into the EU, so they agreed to three representatives of the diaspora, for how many plagues, and now came with a proposal to amend that part of the Constitution, and did not even answer the question of how many diaspora would have representatives to accept their proposal for constitutional changes. And what was it then to sell particular and scrawny interests when the judges of the Constitutional Court were elected? The legal framework for the regulation of the referendum decision was the main motive of our involvement in these constitutional changes but not just one article of the Constitution but also the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court and it is good that we have reached an agreement and that we do this part of the work together and propose amendments to the Constitutional Court Act and the final phase will only be when the Assembly discusses and adopts the Law on the referendum. Some say that the existing model in the Constitution of referendum decision-making should not be changed because it is great. You collect 10% of the signatures, you have no restrictions, you have no turnout quota on everything you can call a referendum. And look at the devil, with these very good provisions in the Constitution, a working referendum in the Labour Act was not held because there was a catch 22 that the Constitutional Court said it couldn't. And those who read the legal framework of the referendum more carefully know that in Croatia, three local referendums have failed in Dubrovnik, Pucis and Fužine because we still have a provision that in the local referendum, turnout must be more than 50% that never bothered anyone. The additional moment of importance of the local referendum is following the introduction of a direct election of local and regional self-government leaders, as they are replaced by the referendum and the legal regulation of the local referendum, and in this context has a huge importance. What these constitutional changes bring instead of 10% of voters 200 000 as a fixed figure. In 2010, when the exit quota was deleted, and I am glad that my colleague Kosor had so much express political honesty and she said publicly we were afraid of the collapse of the referendum, none but her admitted it publicly. But if we had solved that before, we had settled the list of voters, we had the current model and, according to the old provisions, the Constitution of the European referendum would have succeeded because the turnout was according to the current status of regulation of the voter list 51.7%. Instead of erasing the provisions of the Constitution, we should have arranged the list of voters, normatively and practically. Order of decision in the civil referendum. What we now have is that the Constitutional Court is at the end of the proceedings, not good, we will go to change that the citizens' initiative first addresses its issue of the Constitutional Court and when it gets an opinion... The Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of the referendum issue has no one left to prevent the referendum. When the Constitutional Court prevented a referendum on the Labour Act, they wrote that the aim of the referendum was to collect the signatures, because the government withdrew the bill. But let's move forward, if such a provision of the Labour Act had been held, it could never have been incorporated because the civil referendum does not apply that provision according to the reading of the Law on Referendum that the decision in the referendum is only worth a year. It is only variable by a new referendum. I mentioned this because of all those who are convinced that every decision of the Constitutional Court is fair and fair. When the Assembly as a constitutional author interpreted that the referendum on marriage was allowed and called a referendum with some difficulties before that, we experienced a statement of criticism as to why we did not ask the Constitutional Court and their opinion. But at the same time, the Constitutional Court has failed the Croatian public to have a proposal in the closet for an assessment of the constitutionality of the same provision on Family Law for two years. We also have a new citizens' initiative for the referendum. Where the Constitutional Court has shown itself about the previous referendum in its statement, it shall, inter alia, interpret its powers under the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court that it has general supervisory powers and will always use them if it is assessed... on Article 1, or on the values set out in Articles 1 and 3. The Constitution. The Constitutional Court did not issue a new statement and did not use its general supervisory powers even though we invited them to do so publicly. What could the referendum not decide if the Parliament adopts such constitutional changes? Not about limiting or reducing existing fundamental human rights, freedom, the rights of minorities from Chapters 2 and 3 and the values of the Constitution of Chapter 2 and 3 of the Constitution, but the referendum may also be called for to increase those rights. Limitation or reduction, but not increase. So the referendum is also allowed for questions from Chapters 2 and 3 of the Constitution, but not for those rights to be reduced. The referendum is also allowed on the subject of confirmation, cancellation or withdrawal from international contracts, but it is not allowed whether or not we will respect a contract that exists, but we will allow and allow a referendum to withdraw from such contracts or cancel or ask for confirmation of an international contract to be made a referendum. The exit quota as a proposal in the public debate was given 40% and the Croatian Labour Club advised not only within the Assembly but also with the number of legal experts and politologists and who warned us all to issue an exit quota, not only because the Venice Commission also suggests that it is not introduced but that it is of such nature that it detimises the issues by going out to the referendum to prevent the validity, and that it reduces the participation of citizens in direct democracy and recommended that instead of the exit quota we go towards the acceptance quota. In a conversation with all interested civil society organisations in the Republic of Croatia at the initial stage and acceptability quotas 25% for laws and general issues, 35% for organic laws and 50 for the Constitution. A compromise solution for the laws and other matters of Parliament's jurisdiction, 40% for the organic and 50 for the Constitution, was agreed in the final. And all those organisations that have consulted with us and whose questions and advice we have sought and the arguments asked for an appropriate solution. And I know that someone won't like it, and I know that we've taken part of our responsibility as an opposition party, no one's forced us to, but we accepted it because it's not about the continuum or the particular interest, but it's about the interest of this country, and it has to be clear to everyone. And what is also important, the provision on the non-exhaustive killings from the very beginning has been used for political accounts of ideological character and it is very good that in the final phase in constitutional changes it is recorded that this change in Article 31. The Constitution shall enter into force on the same day, which is 1.1 next year when the European Arrest Order Act is amended. There's also a guarantee that someone will abuse something. You never have guarantees. You can trust someone and use the influence and ability to protect national interests and avoid all possible conflicts. But those who have given the most public guarantees over the past ten years with the most offenses not to use a single harsh word so that Vice President Stazic does not make me notice about these guarantees. So what's next? Amendment to the Constitutional Court Act, which is conducted under the same procedure as the amendment of the Constitution, and we will change the order that the Constitutional Court is on the first and we will allow for the final amendment of that law to the choice of the thirteenth Judge of the Constitutional Court, and I will personally be obliged to introduce in that law deadlines within which the Constitutional Court must resolve the requirements and proposals for the assessment of constitutionality obtained from authorised applicants. The third phase of the referendum law and as regards regionalisation, of course, the debate will also have to cover the debate not only in the regions, but also in the existing municipalities, cities and counties. But not only in their numbers, but we will start if we participate in this debate and it will be the first condition of a serious debate to first discuss the powers of local and regional self-government, then finance, and then the figures and maps will be drawn. A colleague Glavak quoted here a brief provision of the Declaration of the Assembly of Međimurje County, not all but just one part, and that part that entered the declaration as an amendment of the Croatian Labourists in the County Assembly. I think you've all understood it well, remember that when we talk about future regionalization, we're leaving from Croatian, not narrow interests, and then we'll make an easy deal. And I'll finish the next one. All those who today in this hall claimed that when Croatia was divided into a hundred municipalities that it was the only reason for faster development forgets only one little thing under quotes. There were also 112 local communities in Međimurje. In 1963, in Međimurje There was no local community that had no self-dependence, so it developed. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63354	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the replicas. There's so many of them that we don't have a chance to finish them by 1:30, so I'm announcing in advance that no one would be angry with us and we'll respond by 1:30 and then I'll call the break. Those who don't get in line will get their chance at 3:00. The first person to call for a replica is the Honorable Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63355	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Lesar, when you first started talking, I thought you'd continue to feel that it was not good for passion to rise and argue that way. But then you devoted about a third of your exposure to HDZ and the past, which is certainly not on the trail of what you said in the first sentence. However, I would have just started with these topics that I think are strictly relevant to this proposal. So, on the one hand, it's good and I agree with you to cut the number to 200000 signatures. However, it is certainly not good to ask that more than 50% of the total number of voters listed in the voters list be declared for the change of the constitution. Because looking back is quite clear that this is almost impossible to achieve, almost impossible. Of course, everything is theoretically possible, but if we look at this clause, we would neither enter the EU because when it was a referendum on EU accession, it was not so many people involved, nor was it this last referendum, nor was it realistic that it would be achieved. Thus, in fact, direct democracy is significantly disabled in connection with changes to the constitution in the future. However, it should also be said that the problem of murder as a crime that does not become obsolete is something that no country in the world has in this way that wants to be resolved. Only eight countries in the world ever mention the word murder in their Constitution, but in a completely different context, in a rule related to the justification of the death penalty in that country for some exceptional cases, and these countries have been allowed to mention these are Antigua and Barbuda, Nepal, Papua New Guinea, Cyprus, Zimbabwe, Rwanda, Sejeli, and Saint Christopher and Nevis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63356	Replication response, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63357	I've devoted not one-third of the time to you, but one minute, and I assume that, or from your press conference, the media misquoted you, which is why you react. Because whenever you make a scandal public, then you accuse the media of being mistranslated. And as for the exit clause for the Constitution or constitutional changes, that we aim at making citizens more participatory in a direct form of decision that has a significant impact on the referendum, which also has a significant impact on greater turnout, in order to make the decision more correct. And if it's possible to achieve it I believe that. And you didn't listen at all to what I was saying. According to the current census model, turnout on the European referendum was 51.7%. So your commitment to direct democracy today from the opposition bench against your community's behaviour towards ruling this country is in great proportion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63358	New replica, respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63359	In your speech, you referred to exactly the accusations coming from HDZ where you were accused at your press conference that you called this deal with the rulings regarding change a vulgar political trade. Listen, everyone is measured by their elbows, because all of their agreements and their influence on different citizens' initiatives is nothing more than that. That's their deal. So, pure political trade or so on under the patronage. And now what's he gonna do? They're in a lot of noise now. Everyone only supports them. The rest of them are in deleted space, naked, and they don't know what to do. You say a colleague we have supported these changes and we support these changes because they are in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. And you wonder why they don't support it. But they only care about Croatia if they are in power, but also only until the last kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63360	Replication response, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63361	Yes, colleagues, Ingrid, often the dictionary someone uses speaks more of him than of the content spoken. And I am taking this opportunity to give public thanks to all the political scientists to the lawyers and civil society activists who helped us as a representative club to come at this moment to the best solution to the legal framework of the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63362	A new replica, dear Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63363	Thank you very much. If I understand you correctly and understand you, you said that HDZ accused you Croatian Labourists at the press conference that you agreed to change the Constitution due to partial close party interests. I must disappoint you because it is a quote from the President of the Constitutional Court of Mrs. Jasna Omreyec, who said, quote: "In connection with these constitutional changes, she has expressed concern that in practice the Constitution is perceived as instrumental and as a mere means of achieving partial political or political-party interests." In doing so, she did not appoint anyone, and no one was to be identified or recognized in that assessment by the President of the Constitutional Court. I don't think you should have recognized yourself and not recognized yourself, I hope.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63364	Replication response, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63365	Dear fellow Shakespeare, I was right earlier when I said you must have been misquoted by the media. I read what the media reported from your press conference. Whether they passed all the parts correctly or incorrectly it's not my problem, it's yours. Publicly disprove those allegations. Don't deny me you didn't give that statement to me, then you have a problem somewhere else. And as for the high concern, I am deeply concerned by the persistent silence of Mrs. Jasna Restrict regarding the latest citizens' initiative on the referendum. That silence of hers and the silence of the Constitutional Court worries me terribly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63366	Replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63367	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, Lesar, I've listened very carefully to you, you're a really kind lawyer, and I think this initiative of yours will now be arranged so that the people will no longer be asked about anything, because the devil sees we've had three referendums on different numbers and all three have succeeded and achieved the goals of the state. Well, there's also a marriage provision. And now that another initiative has emerged, we are now introducing a new, different way of searching for Croatian Labourists. But something else got me involved in your debate, and that's when you said there's going to be a labour law now, and I expect us all to sit here. We'll sit down, but there's a position of Labourist very interesting in the light of these changes. Imagine that we discussed this law before constitutional changes to make Croatian Labourists look – Party of Work with the adopted Labour Act, and then only constitutional changes. Like this, first constitutional changes, give us your hands and then we will fight for Croatian workers. We're going to vote you over nicely, and instead of you taking advantage of that opportunity to protect them, you've agreed to this little settlement of the referendum issues from which all of them have succeeded, and one of them is keenly trying to protect himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63368	The replica matches Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63369	It's always a problem for a respected colleague when someone has a short memory. Our views on the referendum framework on the legal framework for the referendum decision were first presented in this Chamber in June 2010. So it has nothing to do with current events in the Republic of Croatia today. But I know that you simply can't understand, it's not going to happen to you, you can't understand that there's a political party and a club of MPs that's going to reach an agreement on constitutional change and will not be a blackmailer for all other things. Who won't secretly trade, secret deals, I'll let you have me because they'd be particular interests at a given time. As for the law and the working legislation, take it and put it before your eyes and try to read the changes you've been making for 8 years. And of course all objections to the ruling coalition and government as we made it clear yesterday about the pension law will be in the Labour Act and in all other laws. But we're not ambush killers to blackmail them for all the issues and all the questions because this is about the Constitution and constitutional changes. That's the difference between the Democrats and the underground political moves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63370	It's 13:30, so we'll call a break. The first in line for the replica is the respected Adriatica Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63371	We're continuing with the replicas now to present our colleagues to Lesar. My colleague, Jadranka Kosor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63372	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, my colleague Lesar has spoken a lot today about the proposal to regulate the referendum issues or the referendum framework, as he has of course spoken a lot about it at committee meetings, is most extensive. I think that we should support all those changes, or all those improvements that will follow, and that's a lot of words for voters to come to the referendum. So, that those who don't come out don't help, that ultimately, a picture of what is really a people or what the voters wanted. So, we need to do everything and we agreed that these possible changes are going in that direction, so people go out and vote yes or no, or that a referendum question will already be formulated, and I certainly mean a significant improvement, and I don't think that it's any particular or any narrow party interest at all. Here's this proposal that's been accepted to reduce the number of signatures necessary to call the election. And that proposal, of course, which will be further elaborated that the question of when a number of signatures are collected goes to the Constitutional Court and is assessed by the Constitutional Court. And as for the guarantees because you're talking about the changes to those parts of the Constitution that talk about the non-depreciation of severe murder talk about guarantees, so we've advocated that something enters as a guarantee. But what the guarantee is actually in politics, it never ends, and here I agree with you guarantees that someone will not betray you in political space and manipulate you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63373	Replication response, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63374	More specifically, colleagues Kosor, encouraging citizens to participate more directly in democracy should be the goal and task of all of us. I and the other MPs would like to remind or familiarise with the fact that during the public debate on the constitutional amendment, there have been a lot of different approaches to this work concerning the referendum. So part of them opposed the reduction in the number of signatures and asked for 10% to remain, part of them asked to return the clause that the referendum was valid only if more than 50% of voters entered and there were serious proposals to introduce a mandatory vote in the referendum with the threat of fines. But not only in the referendum, but also in the elections in the Republic of Croatia. Some countries in the EU also have such models. We appreciated that it would not be useful for Croatia at this time and that the participation of citizens would be achieved in such a way that the referendum company was guided on the content of the proposal and not as we had the opportunity to testify about everything but the subject which was the subject of the debate. Croatia is in the deficit of experience of referendum decision-making and that is one of the reasons why all the solutions that are on the table but also those that are yet to come will have to be gently crushed to offer, as a first time legal framework, something that will allow citizens to respond, conduct and decide in the referendum, answer us whether the model is the most acceptable for them as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63375	Gordan Jandrokovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63376	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Lesar, in his presentation on several occasions, you called HDZ because of the views expressed at yesterday's press conference. I'd like to explain because what you were saying wasn't quite accurate, so what we said there and how we argued what we said. So, during the press conference, I quoted the President of the Constitutional Court as saying that he was really concerned about the fact that in practice the Constitution takes the instrument and serves as a mere means of achieving partial political and political party interests. So that's the statement by the President of the Constitutional Court, and I quoted it and that's the basic thesis. As for the Labourists themselves as well as the HDSSB, I mentioned them and apostrophe in the Perkovic case, so I say and repeat it and stand behind it. In the event that this Constitution does not change, it allows the ruling set to avoid the extradition of Mr Josip Perkovic to Germany, I believe that all of those representatives, and so do you, who raise their hands for changes to the Constitution now share responsibility for avoiding the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia and the possible consequences that will result from this. So, this is not about any unargumented calling, but about a completely realistic opportunity because if you read the interview of the President of the County Court in Zagreb, you will see that the possibility of avoiding the implementation of the European arrest warrant is quite possible and that it is not only in the sphere of politics and any speculation. So, certainly, there is a way out of this situation, that the Constitution is passed after the European arrest warrant is implemented as a whole, so when we see that there are really no hidden intentions... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63377	Thank you. Replication response, Dragutin Lesar. Please take care of the weather. There's a lot more to discuss, and we'll do one more point after the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63378	Dear colleague Jandrokovic, I mentioned HDZ only once. No more times than once, and the problem of mistransmissioning your press conferences clear up with those who were carriers of your words. The same warning about the possible carrying of responsibility, I would like to say to the Croatian Assembly in 2010 on constitutional changes. And I said to all of you who are going to vote for these constitutional changes, you're opening Pandora's box, and you're not even aware of what you're doing, and you're going to be responsible for what you're doing. What responsibility did you personally take for such proposals and such a vote? Nothing. Where's your political responsibility? Where is your party's political responsibility for that? Mr Jandrokovic and I did not enter the EU just thanks to you and HDZ. I hope you didn't come back to some other time, so you're just attributing yourself and HDZ to it. And you know very well that we are talking about changing the Constitution on the work of referendum decision-making and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63379	Ilija Filipovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63380	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You, Mr. Lesar, at the part of one of your discussions, expressed regret that you were not an integral part of the story of earlier constitutional changes mainly in the 2010 Constitutional Change. Read the fologram and you'll see. So, I'm curious if it doesn't seem to you, I understand that your regret, doesn't seem inappropriate to you that the strongest opposition political option in this House, so follow what happens through discussions and preparations for the amendments to the Constitution without participating. Despite the fact that in 2010, not by its own fault, it is not involved, that in 2010, through political trade, through agreements, through various ultimatums, some norms have been adopted, I appeal to and regret for Article 45. The constitution, it's one reading that doesn't belong to constitutional matter, it's legal matter. Personally, I think it would be logical that we have made a little more effort and achieved one of the broadest consensus of MPs in the Croatian Parliament and brought these constitutional changes that we intend to make, because this would be for the benefit of Croatian people both abroad and abroad because we have brought people into the diaspora situation to travel hundreds of kilometers, to vote, to get to the headquarters of the diplomatic consulting network so that they can give their voice at certain times when they are called for a vote. I'm asking you, does that seem normal to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63381	The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63382	Dear colleague. You've got it all wrong again. You keep having trouble tracking. So in the participation of Croatian Labourists on constitutional changes in 2010, I spoke not of myself, but of my colleague Vuksic in one replica. And I didn't even mention it. You're confused. So, my colleague Vuksic, if I'm not mistaken, told my colleague Kosor about it. We were not invited then to participate in the negotiations. We were not allowed to approach at all, but this time because your party's decision not to participate. And finally, I ask you, is it regrettable that a large opposition party proposes a proposal for constitutional changes, I quote: ''We propose that Article 2 of Article 45 is amended so that the new paragraph 2 reads, in elections for the Croatian Parliament, voters who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia have the right to choose a proportionate number of MPs from their share in the total number of citizens according to the law', not voters, citizens. And on request, how many representatives would the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who had no residence on the territory of Croatia, according to this model selected in the Croatian Parliament, did not know the answer. Is that sad? Very sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63383	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63384	Since it was a break, my colleague Lesar is having a hard time getting into the thoughts that I was going to tell you at your presentation. But here, it makes me think that that acceptance quota provision instead of the exit quota, it seems to me that it's a bit of a reternization of what we and your club colleagues talked about before. So the 25% provision, 40% and 50% quota was accepted that it was a little reternised and that it was a little difficult to expect mainly for 40% and 50% of the total electoral body of the Republic of Croatia that some of the referendums, future referendums, would be successful and based on an initiative of 200 thousand signatures that I claim to be the orderly quota of 200 thousand signatures and will be far more accessible as the instrument of the most democracy than before. What you were saying about the region, or what we're saying is that regions need first to define powers and then finance and then just set limits and the number of units of local self-government and region that's the best answer I've heard here today in connection with this problem. So on that point, the acceptance quota of 25, 40 and 50%, I think we re-retired that we limited somewhat to that original idea of yours actually a little bit. I'm talking about a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63385	The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63386	The difference between the original and the final variant is only here in organic laws, and the proposal was 35 now is 40, that's the only difference. This I think may be an argument but on the topic of regionalisation of Croatia. Just as all political parties represented in the Croatian Parliament and we have the right to their political views, such same rights were used by the parties at the level of the county and some of the county congregations were manifested about possible future regionalisation but not only in the constitutional category but also in that Regional Development Act which was very current for a time. So the Međimurje County Assembly also adopted a declaration defining its position and position and view in 7, 8 points that future regionalisation in Croatia should be, and if I am not mistaken, that declaration was adopted unanimously and fully clear that Međimurje could never agree to regionalisation if it did not have the status of the region. It is the position of the county assembly of all parties represented in the county assembly. Such a similar attitude was taken in the congregation of Dubrovnik - Neretva. We are warning this fact only that when we start working out the currently envisaged possibilities of legislative regulation that we keep in mind that other than us in this Chamber, the interests of the local and regional self-government are very much in place.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63387	And Branko Bacic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63388	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In my opinion, my colleague Lesar, these changes in the section relating to the referendum of these constitutional changes are a suspension of democracy especially in the section of which it is mentioned about the direct decision-making of citizens. And it seems to me that the Labour Club is the most insistent that you have somehow insisted on this head and these articles advocate fictitious democracy. It is very important for you to reduce the number of signatures that would enable and contribute to the initiative to open a referendum, but you are less concerned about the measure itself because Article 6. The Constitution significantly restricts acquired rights of Croatian citizens because they are now defining which issues cannot be decided in the referendum, and these are the rights relating to the restriction or reduction of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which relate to obligations arising from international contracts, which relate to the adoption and implementation of budgets and tax systems, etc. So I would remind you that three years ago you and the Laburista Club were very much and the Labour Party were very much engaged in the collection of signatures for the one already forgotten, it seems to me that a referendum in which we said whether you were in favour of maintaining the applicable legal provisions on the implementation of the legal rules contained in collective agreements and cancelling collective agreements. You agree with me that such a referendum has been called and that Croatian citizens have accepted such a question in order to have any implications for the state budget, there would be implications. And now, with this proposal for constitutional change, we are practically making it impossible to call a referendum that concerns budget implementation and the tax system. So this is how the Constitution was at that time. This is the kind of referendum that you've collected 80,000 votes for could not have been called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63389	The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63390	Comrade Bačić seems to you a lot of things in your replica. I don't think anything's happening to me. And then and today, I claim that a referendum on the Labour Act would get far more than 25% of the support of the entire electoral body, opposition to such a provision and then today. So even today, according to this proposal, the rule applies that the topic of law and labour rights, pension rights, social rights and their increase in the referendum is enough 25% +1 of voters, which is easily available and acceptable and you are right. We were very engaged in collecting signatures for this referendum because we were deeply convinced that he was unfair to workers as he would today. So is today. But you can't seem to remember how, as a ruling coalition, you were then adjudicating that referendum that you made with it, you forgot to say it. As you drove between the flags of the oscillative games... the competition of stalling for months in the counting of signatures, and the decision to go to the Constitutional Court and then, in the end, the Constitutional Court would say no, this referendum cannot be called. And now you, be careful you're talking about your great interest in direct democracy, and you've had the ideal chance, amazingly, as if the great Democrats were the first civil referendum on the working social topic, and you've done everything you can to make it impossible under such regulations. And I'm finishing up, and I'm building on your representative Mr. Tudjman's statement that the Croatian Parliament is a crazy ship.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63391	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleagues Vladimir Seks and Davorin Mlakar will speak. Vladimir Shakespeare, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63392	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The subjects of these constitutional changes can be classified as four groups. It is one that refers to the non-depreciation of the crimes of serious murders that will be prescribed by law, the provisions relating to the set of referendums, the provisions relating to certain laws being passed in the procedure relating to the change of the Constitution and the introduction of regions as units of regional self-government in the Constitution. HDZ opposes these constitutional changes. What are the reasons why HDZ opposes constitutional changes? With regard to those parts of constitutional changes relating to the referendum, there could be one part of these proposals and agree, but we cannot fully agree with the remaining proposals for the amendment of the Constitution. First, I would like to remind you that in 11.7.2013, a group of SDP advocates submitted a proposal to approach the amendment of the Constitution, the Constitution Committee, and this proposal was to abolish the age for killings from political initiatives. The Constitution Committee refused to give the green light to approach the amendment of the Constitution. At that time, the board members, here are colleagues Beus Richembergh, the HNS represented positions at the time, and also the Club of Representatives of the SDSS fellow Pupovac so that it could be resolved without changing the Constitution and the law. And there were constitutional changes. At the end of September, the procedure for amending the Constitution was renewed and started to change the Constitution. There are three reasons why we hold that we will not support these amendments to the Constitution. In the first row, I would like to quote again the statement by the President of the Constitutional Court of Mrs. Jasna Omrej, who expressed concern that constitutional changes cannot be in the role of particular, co-partisan interests. The second reason is that, in essence, the constitutional changes, except for rare exceptions, are completely excluded from the professional and scientific public, except for rare exceptions. Secondly, why don't we support that constitutional change that applies to the proposal to amend the Constitution on the non-depreciation of the crimes of serious murders that will be prescribed by law? For the same reasons and arguments given by the President of the Republic of Croatia, Dr. Ivo Josipovic, for the same reasons and reasons given by the Constitutional Court, is thus to act against the rule of law. That the fundamental principle of criminal law 'zero crim crimens lie, zero foam son of a legion', so there is no penalty without law, no crime without law, that it violates, that fundamental principle, that it violates legal security, certainty and predictability, is said very clearly in its own way by the President of the Republic. And this is given in a very broad explication and the Constitutional Court, which indicates that it is a dangerous political volunteerism because any political set can, for the purpose of political accounting or retribution at a certain point, be placed in the catalogue of criminal offences on the basis of such constitutional provision, certain crimes against life and the body, killings and thus, a dangerous political volunteerism arises. It is the same opinion of the Venice Commission that the statutes of limitations should be regulated by criminal law or by some other law. The second thing why we hold that we will not support these constitutional changes is the constitutionalisation of the law, in particular the law which would be passed by the Parliament by its decision and which would determine that they are being adopted in a manner which is intended to change the Constitution or as constitutional laws or laws which regulate the position and jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court or the rights of national minorities, because such constitutionalisation, both at the point of view and at the point of view of the Constitutional Court and at the point of view of the President of the Republic, is an impediment to the Constitutional Court to control the constitutionality of such laws. Because if such laws are adopted in accordance with the procedure relating to the amendment of the Constitution, they shall be equated in that section with the Constitution, according to the position of all these relevant legal experts and experts, including the President of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court, numerous legal experts and experts. This means that it is thus seeking to prevent the Constitutional Court from deciding on constitutional control of the law. The third area is also the introduction into the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia's regional self-government unit. There are six types of regions in the typeology. There are also regional self-government units, territorial units in many European countries, especially in Spain or Italy, there are regions. It should first be established as in the Constitutions of those countries, which is the content of the regional region as a unit of territorial, regional self-government and administration, to determine what its content is, rather than opening the first framework, and only later will the legislation establish this and the content. This topic, which is a very delicate regionalism, a regionalisation that is one important issue and decentration and decentralisation in Croatia, should be given in the first place by a very broad, professional and scientific public. This is how it comes to the notion that the region is a unit of regional self-government plus the county is right to note that the President of the Constitutional Court, President of the Republic, is creating a third, fourth one between the state and the county one unit of territorial self-government. That is why, in principle, the reasons why the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will not support these constitutional changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63393	Davorin's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63394	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I've already told my colleague Shakespeare the reasons why we won't support these changes to the Constitution. I'll begin my presentation with a quote. We are now sending a proposal to amend the Constitution so that political killings do not become obsolete. At these trials, none of us will be a witness, and on the other hand there will be mass. When some people in HDZ and the Church are ready to go so far, I'm willing to go further. You're pushing the fox, you're going to drive King Kong away. It's a quote, the prophecy of our Prime Minister, the psychic Zoran, and I would say that in the good part, it was fulfilled except for one essential fact. For the time being, we have not expelled King Kong, but we have evicted the Kentaur, we have forced one into force, and we have quickly addressed the text of amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The constitution is the highest legal said by some of the state's legal-political acts. Its passage is usually marked by a ceremony. The adoption of the Constitution is considered a holiday of democracy in modern societies, so it is also worth the same feeling for changes or additions to such a fundamental state act. This government has shown how it feels about the Constitution and how it feels about the state. It considers that constitutional changes can be made with a public debate of 7, and then forced by the public to extend the debate to 15 days, and that same authority then dares to tell the President of the Republic as the author of the amendment to the Constitution that he was late with his proposal, although the proposal came to the Assembly before the debate on this draft. 15 days of colleagues and colleagues have said several times the deadline for public debate and for discussion on the home council of several residential buildings, not for changes to the basic act of the state. The Republic of Croatia has changed its constitution four times since its adoption and it can be said that there has always been justification for such constitutional changes. For the first time now we are changing the Constitution for only one old one, and that was to be included in the Constitution non-depreciation of the crimes of severe murders. Unfortunately, even this perhaps good or noble idea in its realisation looks like a ghastly and insulting of the basic values that the Croatian Constitution protects, which is that it leads to legal uncertainty, to endangering some fundamental legal principles, including that of the rule of law, because you are now presupposing that difficult killings that will not become obsolete tomorrow by a special law and extend the circle of these crimes that will not become obsolete, and that at the time of the initiation or trial of these acts, no one knew anything about it. I'm not going to caricate and say that it can happen with criminal acts, say in traffic where there's fatalities. But I will say that such enlargement, such volunteerism by the legislator is inadmissible for legal certainty and basic principles that protect the Croatian Constitution. And secondly, it's important how much time it allows. The Republic of Croatia has been established as a civil state, rule of law and high democratic standards. Today, by amending Article 15, we question the fundamental principles of the Croatian state because one minority, regardless of what criteria, is considered a minority, in this case we raise the national minority in a valuable sense above others and give it a special position in the Constitution, we raise the rank of the law that protects the minority in the rank of the Constitution, thereby losing the values for which the Croatian public has been defined and which are incorporated into the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We are aware that you have never taken our remarks seriously, but what HDZ is saying you have had the opportunity to hear from both the experts of constitutional law and the experts of the Constitutional Court who unfortunately do not respond to you today. So science, profession and the widest public condemns this way of changing the Constitution but that wasn't enough reason for you to imagine the proposed changes. Finally, the Venice Commission has carried out several assessments of the Hungarian Constitution, which is why such a procedure is not good. Since time does not allow us to suggest that you all deal with this material and see and find the similarities between the procedure in Hungary and Croatia and realize that this time we are going is not good. What I wanted to tell you, it's all our responsibility to bring this constitution. The amendments to the Constitution have also been made to the historical facts that enter the memory of every nation. We will all share responsibility for such constitutional changes. We say it's not too late, tomorrow we'll all be responsible and those we were for and those who were against, but tomorrow you won't be able to say we didn't know what we had and what these changes were about. It is still not too late to accept well-intentioned criticism and give up such constitutional changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63395	First, we'll hear the replicas of the presentation of fellow Shexes. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63396	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here's a colleague of Shex you're saying that this amendment to the Constitution, especially in Article 3 where the words of the crimes of serious murders are added, are prescribed by a special law which you consider to be an attack on the legality of that fundamental principle of zeroum crimene son of a zero point son of a leg. I remind you that our Constitution and the provision of Article 31 that does not change remains intact, and I remind you, Article 31. No one can be punished for an act that was committed before the law or international law was laid down as a criminal offence, nor can a sentence which was not laid down by law be imposed on him. So it is perfectly clear that these special laws are acts that already exist in criminal law. And the other thing is that a constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution itself will be passed. Therefore, the basic principle will neither be added to any new criminal offences nor is this possible in view of the existing provision of the Constitution that is not being amended. Therefore, you cannot change this change to such or otherwise interpreted as it is set. You also say excessive constitutionalism that here are the things that need to be regulated by law are governed by the Constitution. You didn't ask such a question about marriage. It's also one of the things. At the end of the day, you yourself proposed in your proposal the non-exhaustion of the crime committed by the Yugoslav communist regime. And now you're just being questionable. And we also adopted your bill and covered it with a serious murder, even though it remains reserved if you don't think such acts were done during
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63397	Thank you, time. The answer to Vladimir Shakespeare's replica. Once again, please take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63398	Thank you very much. My fellow Members, you don't polarize with me, you're polymizing with the President of the Republic. You're plimising with the Constitutional Court. You're plimising with the Venice Commission. Let me just quote, "Article 3 of Amendment 5 to the Constitution violates the fundamental provisions of the principle of zeroum crime son of a zero point son of a position and the principles of rule of law, legal certainty, excellence and predictability." And from a political point of view, the proposal to enter criminal law is a dangerous political volunteerism because it is given to political authorities so-called. a political bienko exchange in the form of a special law when any new authority can enroll in the Penal Code and open up new crimes of murder and open criminal investigations and open up political retribution and revenge. The President of the Republic also says very precisely and clearly the blank norm prescribed by a special law enables the legislator to change the catalogue of works considered difficult and proposes a solution to this. Therefore, you are plimising with all constitutional and legal experts, with the Constitutional Court, with the President of the Republic. They're all on the right side or the wrong side, and you're the only one alone, lonely, that I'm very comforting that you've stayed lonely and alone in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63399	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63400	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would first and foremost be interested in the fact that you were the long-standing chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of one of the authors of the Christmas Constitution and that you know for sure the procedure of adopting the Constitution, or constitutional changes, I am interested in the fact that the Croatian Parliament or perhaps better said Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system should act after the President of the Republic of Croatia has delivered his proposal to the Croatian Parliament regarding the version of the draft amendment to the Constitution. Whether it would be necessary and necessary for the Croatian Parliament to stop with the collapse of the Constitution until the relevant parliamentary body shows these changes and discuss them at this session. Because it seems to me that today we are only discussing the amendments to the Constitution proposed by the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, which is why these remarks and the proposals of the President of the Republic of Croatia were delivered to us if they are not relevant in this procedure. Then why did they come to our benches and why did the president send them? I assume that as a professor of law, the President of the Republic of Croatia is quite well known and has been a long-standing parliamentary representative, he knows the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament quite well so that he would send this simply so that it would not matter to him how this letter will be treated in the Croatian Parliament. So I am interested to hear from you whether the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the political system should have launched some other procedure after such a letter from the President of the Republic, which would then conditioned obsolescence with these changes that we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63401	Replication response, Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63402	Thank you very much. counterpart Bačić, president of the Republic, is one of the mandated motions to change the Constitution with one-fifth of MPs and government. In this particular case, the President of the Republic of Croatia has submitted proposals for a change to the Constitution as an authorised applicant. These proposals for the amendment of the Constitution must, not be possible, but must be considered according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, under Article 60.I quote: "The Committee for the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system shall consider the opinions and proposals of the constitutional nature addressed to the Assembly." The president of the Republic of Croatia referred the Croatian Parliament to the hands of the President of the Croatian Parliament as an authorised promoter, proposals for a change to the Constitution. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, if you would like to stick to the Rules of Procedure not as a paragraph as a drunk board, should schedule your session and discuss the proposal of the President of the Republic for a change of Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63403	Drazen Pandek replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63404	Thank you. Here's an esteemed colleague, I would not agree with the finding that these constitutional changes endanger the principle of the basic legal principle that there is no penalty without law. This isn't about the introduction of new crimes, it's just about abolishing the statute of limitations for certain crimes. The violation of this principle would be to introduce a new criminal offence and to prescribe responsibility for this act and that persons at the time they committed this act, that this time was not prescribed for them and criminal liability. That's not the case here. Here I must remind you that we have had an erasing of certain crimes before, and this is about an identical situation. In this case, then, only if the time when it was committed was described as a criminal offence will there continue to be persecution. So it's not clear to me that you're arguing that someone can count with antiquity when committing a crime, so that the course of time should be such caution to guarantee the caution of the gha. I don't agree with that. According to that argument, I wouldn't even be able to lift the statute of limitations for the crimes of a serious murder because all of these perpetrators are counting on the act of limitations, so now we're removing the right to get away with it without punishment. On the other hand, in relation to your remarks on the introduction of regions, I would say that here we only define in general what is the task in the Constitution of the principles that we are guided by the introduction of this topic and if there is a political will in the House, then we will further develop the content of the constitutional norm. Otherwise, we'd get what we used to be in that Yugoslav constitution to put it all in the Constitution so it would be an endless tartar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63405	Replication response, Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63406	Dear colleague, I'm afraid you're wrong. I will only quote to you what the President of the Republic says in his proposal: "Formalisation of the new proposed Article 31st paragraph 4 of the Law can be read as the introduction of retroactive regulation of forms of serious crimes for which there is no statute of limitations, new descriptions of the crimes of serious murder" The formulation should be such that it is clear how it relates to the various forms of serious murders and their legal descriptions from various criminal laws that were valid in the area of the Republic of Croatia. The banking norm prescribed by a special law also enables the legislator to modify the catalogue of acts considered as a serious murder within the meaning of this constitutional provision. The Venice Commission, therefore the Advisory Body of the Council of Europe for Constitutional Affairs, also says the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is necessary and important, it cannot be adopted to amend the Constitution and then give the Bianca Political Exchange to any legislator, professantly to determine what crimes they are and that for those crimes, it will then be determined that these are special acts of serious murder. This is contrary to every principle of legal certainty, every principle of law, legal order, democratic legal order. We don't mind that the valleys become obsolete for serious murders, for murder, but not this way, this way is wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63407	Gordan Jandrokovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63408	Dear fellow Shex, today's debate shows how much the President of the Constitutional Court was right when she said that in practice the Constitution is termed instrumental and serves as a mere means of achieving partial political or political party interests, why is that so? Well, you've excellently apostrophe that on one hand you have the profession, the science of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Republic as well as an excellent lawyer, which points to all the failures, to all the shortcomings of these constitutional changes. However, this is not seen by the MPs, by the ruling coalition and some other political parties at all as something that is relevant. Why? Because they have enough hands and I can vote what they want. And that is exactly what the HDZ indicates when you call for decisions from the Venice Commission, when you refer to the Constitutional Court, the Constitution cannot be seen only as a means of political agreement, as a means of protecting exclusively political party interests. It is a fundamental act of every state and every society and therefore it is very important how it is carried out, so in all past stages, in all past adoptions of the Constitution, a highly consulted expert public. Never so few experts in discussing constitutional proposals like this one. And that's what we point to and what we tell you. And that's why we're not unhappy, we're not happy that we stayed in the Parliament, that we are the only major political party against constitutional change here. No, that's why we're proud because on our side we have a professional public, scientific public, even the President of the Republic of you who came from your ranks says you're not doing a good job, the Constitutional Court is here
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63409	The answer to Vladimir Shakespeare's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63410	A colleague, Jandroković, when put on one weight scale who are the ones who agree with such constitutional changes, who disagree, who express their reserves, the reserves express practically the entire scientific and professional public. Almost complete. The President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court, and on the other side of the scale is who? One political will. One political will against all professional and scientific arguments. So if this political will prevails against the scientific and professional public and political will, you will see what the result will be. The result will be the same as the result when all 13 Constitutional Legal Experts, professors from the Constitutional Law Department of Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek, said that if the referendum was changed, it would be possible to change the Constitution. The president of the Committee, my esteemed and dear colleague, Peja Grbin, insisted on the the thesis as well as those who support, I end immediately, insisted that only this change will follow after the change.../The speaker has been turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63411	Turn on the mic, buddy... I don't know who you are. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Turn on the microphone. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My friend Shakespeare knows he's got a discount on us, so here you go. Joseph Salapic, replica. [[Thank you very much. Thank you. I won't abuse.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63412	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Seks, if we should put you on the line as a constitutional expert and a lawyer and Mr. Josipovic as an expert in criminal law, I would prefer you, as far as the Constitution is concerned. And as for President Josipovic, no one said that the president should have said what he said, but the time, the day of the parliamentary debate, and two months of this talk can be brought to the question of what the president's intentions are. So let me remind the public, but also you in the debate, and the president has the right to make a mistake and think differently than others. So let's say Croatia signed a key agreement with Slovenia, which is an arbitration agreement that unblocked the negotiations and allowed Croatia's entry into the EU, President Ivo Josipovic, at that time as a parliamentary representative did not vote in favour. Furthermore, in the most difficult times when we held negotiations to complete all chapters for Croatia's entry into the EU, the president expressed doubts then to the HDZ government that the HDZ government will be able to complete negotiations for Croatia's entry into the EU by 1 July. And the president is, apart from the institution, only a human being can have his own opinion one way or another, and it's up to the public to judge what he is and what he isn't. Pure honest and honest. Secondly, one principled reason is that you're against it, and the other is essential reasons. As for this qualification that you said today in your debate on the legal framework of the region, so I remind you of one more thing, the Constitution also contained the legal framework of the regional administration in ten, eleven articles of the Constitution. This regional administration, self-government, has never achieved any further consideration in special laws. This legal framework for regions to enter the Constitution as a legal framework provides further opportunities for the final law to discuss all elements of the proposed regionalisation of Croatia. As the model in Spain, Italy, you mentioned, so are models in other countries that work well. So we have time and space to talk about everything if this goes into the right framework of the Constitution, and that depends on the time ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63413	Thank you. The answer to Vladimir Shakespeare's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63414	I'm the last one to represent the dogmu of the president's infallibility or any authority. The fact that President Josipovic did not vote in favour of ratification of the arbitration agreement at the time does not mean that he does not have the right to state his opinion and as an authorised promoter for the change of the constitution. He is not late, there is no deadline, he is simply authorised to, as President of the Republic at any stage of the procedure of amending the Constitution, at any stage, at any stage of the procedure to approach the amendment of the Constitution, either now at this stage to determine the draft amendment of the Constitution, or in the third stage, which will probably follow next week in the process of amending the Constitution, possibly whenever he considers it necessary as President of the Republic, to propose, state his views, to present his proposals. So he's not... Therefore, we need here, regardless of political differences, to safeguard the institution of the president of the state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63415	Marin Jurjević replicas the presentation of his colleagues, Mlakara.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63416	Well, I'm rarely confused, but I have to admit I'm a little confused after these discussions. It seems to me that HDZ is prepared to lack and not support its candidate for future president. And I'm glad you came to your senses and I'd like you to support his ideas about same-sex marriages, communities, about the family referendum, etc. Tomorrow might be a referendum I don't know to enter the Constitution that people have two legs, two hands if they happen to lose, etc. But good. I would consider great progress if you were to support Ivo Josipovic in everything, but you see here it seems to me that many speakers are trying to hide a very simple thing with a bright cover that serves only one thing, to cover the truth. And if anything was cast out the truth, it's a fact. Not this one, not that one, but the truth. Yes, that's true. It's a very simple matter, whether we're about to become obsolete or not to depreciate the crimes of serious murders whenever it's committed by anyone at any time with Article 31. The constitution speaks of how this is done, and that means that it will not be prescribed any new nor manipulated by it or invented about it. What has not already been laid down by law as a criminal offence of a serious murder, etc. I don't know why you think you can manipulate people so much. And as for Hungarians, we know that the whole EU has risen because of what the Hungarian judiciary is trying to do with these changes... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63417	Thank you. The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63418	I don't know what my colleague Jurevic's been using about all my time or just part of it. I referred to the opinion and the proposal of the President of the Republic not because I would support him as a future candidate for the future President of the Republic. That's what you get wrong, but it's your problem if you're living in the wrong time. I called for an opinion he signed because he is a university professor, an interesting criminal procedural law, even I think he is the head of the Zagreb Law Faculty department. And I believe, regardless of the high opinion I have on your discussions, that he knows more about it than you do. And what you're trying to do to us now and you didn't know how to enter the amendments to the Constitution would just mean that, with these amendments to the Constitution, we need more special instructions for use because you're now interpreting to me what you wrote in the Constitution. Unfortunately, dear colleague Jurević, it's not what you think it says. It says that crimes that do not become obsolete will be prescribed by a special law, even without great legal knowledge, and that you understand logic and Croatian language could be read to mean that after 3 months and 6 months, and in a year, you can prescribe new offences to which this provision of the Constitution will apply. What you don't understand may be the time to ask for before you're instructed to use a suggestion before you perform.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63419	A clear Mesic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63420	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The Honored fellow Mlakar, and even when I raised the line afterwards, you, of course, and also colleague Seks, said what both the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court and the President of the Constitutional Court and the Venice Commission said about all these amendments to the Constitution, and no matter what some of them said about King Kong and Kentaura, the constitutional court and the presidents of the Constitutional Court and the Venice Commission, and no matter what some respected colleagues and colleagues claim that we from HDZ stayed in the deleted space, the majority of SDP remained in the deleted space and was exposed to whatever it meant. So maybe you could say a few more words about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63421	The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63422	Thank you very much, dear colleague Mesic. So what we wanted to say, and what is visible unfortunately for the majority is not the best position when what HDZ claimed confirmed by the Constitutional Court, the Venice Commission, the institution of the President of the Republic and probably all the experts who asked but did not get the space in the media to give their opinion on such a proposal of the Constitution. Besides being an ad hoc constitution extremely unnecessary, he's very badly engaged. And to that truth, unfortunately, no matter how hard my colleagues in the position tried, they couldn't escape. Whether this text is going to be voted on is a question and I would say a store that has more time to work with others to get to the required number of hands for the two-thirds majority. But there will be problems that will bring about such a constitution, not taking care of all who has warned about the adverse consequences of such a constitution not only for the citizens, not only for the political parties but also for those who hold power today, and tomorrow they will be in opposition. Unfortunately, they do not want to accept well-intentioned and reasoned criticism, and for the first time in the Croatian Constitution we will enter provisions that we will all have to be ashamed of in the end. And what we were saying about Hungary, which was peripherally touched by fellow Jurjevic, is a bad example of how two-thirds of the majority in parliament can impose solutions that can result in the long-term consequences of all Croatian citizens. We have warned of this, but unfortunately there is no hearing when the HDZ criticism is not already accepted to accept from the objective and professional public what is said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63423	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63424	My colleagues and colleagues, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. For us at the SDSS Club, the Constitution is too serious, in which we base the greatest value of democracy, both for our society and for all societies, in the end it is through history and proven and it does not need to be changed much in practice. Unfortunately, we now have one tendency not to say day-to-day political interests, but we reach out to every little bit for amendments to the basic state act, which is the Constitution. And it's kind of an impression that there wasn't a famous Lex Perkovic so this whole story wouldn't open up and that this whole story wouldn't go through with it. We, as representatives of minorities, have not initiated anything of this amendment to the Constitution, we did not particularly want them, but when that reconstruction of the basic state act was put into debate, then we have something to say about it because we think there are certain institutes that need to be completed and institutes that have kind of spent time. We think it's a good thing there's going to be a lot of discussion here, because it's only been debated about what triggered the campaign around so-called. lex Perkovica, or around antiquity for the crimes of serious murder then this would be a rather unfinished and quite empty story. We participated through our representative Professor Pupovac in the public debates that took place today and took place in the forums before this plenary, and I think that everyone, especially the big parties, should have participated in these public debates, regardless of whether they are in opposition at the moment. We believe that these are processes that cannot pass and cannot pass without the participation of large parties, as well as without the participation of institutions such as the President of the Republic. Of course, he is not late with his remarks, but today’s day and remarks today give reason to speculate on it in various ways. Of course we won't speculate on that. We will only talk about constitutional changes and we will not use this as a polygon and a shooting stage in terms of day-to-day political needs and of course we will not invoke anyone, and in particular we will not name the presidents of some parties and put them in a context that this debate does not deserve. When it comes to constitutional changes, I will start from the beginning as proposed in the draft, so from Article 2 which talks mainly about the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Article 15 of the existing Constitution in paragraph 2 suggests the adoption of a constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. The proposed procedure now provides for the adoption of constitutional law under these new proposals in the way the Constitution itself is adopted, i.e. it would be adopted in three steps with 101 votes, i.e. 2/3 of the majority, i.e. so on. The qualified majority of all MPs and we think it is good because the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities should have a rank consistent with its name, or values that protect it. It must be primarily constitutional law in its own sense because what it was so far, that it was only by its own name that the colleagues had already said, it was essentially organic law as well as other organic law that existed in our legal system. In Article 83, paragraph 2 is The Constitution of issues governing the rights of national minorities, issues governing the work of the Constitutional Court and issues governing the way in which the Constitution itself is implemented are governed by laws adopted under the procedure laid down for the change and adoption of the Constitution and are called here very clearly by this new concept are called constitutional law. It's not good if their only distinction from the other laws is what they're called organic and what they bring to the 2/3 majority. They must have constitutional character over us in their main elements, they must say which matter they regulate and must say that we are treating the community as a constitutional matter, as a key component of the legitimate hierarchy. One of these constitutional laws as I have said is the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which is only by the name of a constitutional, fundamentally organic, is subject to the assessments of the constitutionality of certain provisions, it has applied accordingly, but what is most important today is examples where local self-government degrades the provisions of constitutional law. This is an example of the Statute of the City of Vukovar. So these constitutional changes should prevent any unfounded derogation of the basic contents of constitutional laws, so all three constitutional laws, not just the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. The second sentence of Article 5 states that the Croatian Parliament can, most of the votes of all MPs, decide to pass the second law after the procedure laid down for the amendment of the constitution. We experience this sentence, we see it as an opportunity to discuss the need for some of the future legal situations to rise to the level where the two-thirds majority will then be given the power of constitutional law. I think we're doing this if it's what we figured out, then it's an acceptable solution for us. And here, I just have to say, and the proposal for a discussion of previous colleagues before me is that I don't quite understand how these HDZ colleagues have so suddenly made a certain salto of death in their views. Because we remember the time when we were in power, when you were in power, when we were entering the EU, and when you were one of the greatest advocates, you were just some special position of national minorities in the Constitution. Suddenly, we are now in a situation where you question all this, and it is even interesting that the constitutional position of the national minorities is being brought into line with the other, with the position of the other minorities in our social community. So, are we going to say that then we misread this referendum on Sunday that should have defined the position of a particular minority community in the same way. Article 4 of this proposal defines some new way, the work of the Parliament. So from now on, we no longer have a model of work in two plenary sessions, in two sessions and with fixed working dates. It is to be expected by us that the work of the Parliament will be more flexible, that it will be without major pauses because we must be honest with ourselves here that these long breaks, or breaks between the work, have quite irritated the public. We also think that the scope of the agenda will be determined by the dynamics of the Parliament’s work without any date limits, which we find appropriate for today’s needs. We think it's a good solution, but it's also to discuss whether one-third of the MP's request is enough, whether it's the right measure to initiate a meeting of the Parliament. So, if we're going to say it's good, then we're saying it's one of the strong advocates' initiatives. If we say that it is bad, then we say that this can lead to the abuse of the sitting itself, or the sitting itself, one third of the representatives of the power to initiate every little call for a session beyond the regular agenda. So that's the thing to talk about here. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The Constitution. So, the referendum, in our opinion, is the most democratic form of public, political declaration of citizens and it is a direct civil democracy. There's no doubt about it. Different practices. Some democracies often use it when there is a civic need for it, and they have built a particular, built culture of public declaration significantly more quality than we do today. Some democracies use it exclusively. I'll make an example of it. Slovenia held 18 national referendums and 2 at local level for 21 years of independence. Denmark is also one of the countries with a large number of referendums, especially those at local level. More than 160 referendums were held in Denmark between nine hundred seventy and two thousand in the second year. But what's important is to say these were the referendums that mainly referred to the issues of local infrastructure and then that kind of civil statement, the civic initiatives in our opinion, have a lot of logic in the end. A similar situation is also in Switzerland. With us practice imposes on us, practice increasingly points to the disability of the current model of the referendum defined in the Constitution. The disability concerns, above all, the formal law technology of the referendum, as it is said to be decided by most voters who have joined the referendum. This suggests that very few people will be able to come to the referendum and with very few to accept the referendum then. I don't think the essence of such a civil plea is consummated through this definition. Invalidity also refers to the width and space of referendum topics. Under the current model, there are almost no restrictions on asking referendum questions. We therefore believe that the amendment to Article 3, paragraph 87, of the existing Constitution has been well resolved. In our opinion, two fundamental problems have been solved in this way. It is defined that it cannot be the subject of a referendum that I do not repeat now, it has already been said and new logical censorships have been defined to carry out the referendum. So, to pass the referendum at the level of the constitutional statement, it takes 50% of the voters enrolled, the organic laws 40%, and all other laws, acts and decisions require 25% of the votes cast by the voters. In our view, therefore, this model, proposed by these amendments, is the right to measure the relationship between the civil declaration and the functioning of the legal system in order to ultimately ensure and certain political stability. We have several examples of how this works in other countries. In Slovenia, a referendum requires the collection of 40,000 signatures on 2 million people, in Italy 500,000 signatures on 58 million inhabitants, Switzerland 50,000 signatures on 7 million, Hungary 200 000 on 9.9 million people. We have a situation that needs to be collected so far according to the current 450,000 signatures on 4 million and 300 inhabitants. So that's the comparatives, the data that goes into these changes when it comes to a referendum that we ultimately support. In the case of regions, this is defined, so Article 1 and Articles 11 to 16 have been touched, and only no-technical correction has been made in that part, the term of sectoral as form of self-government has been deleted and the term of the region remains. In our view, this is not only a nomotechnical procedure in this way, we have announced the opening of a series of large issues that should in the future respond to a moving initiative called a new structure, an administrative structure of the Republic of Croatia, or a new decentralisation. For us, the future will need to answer the questions of the hierarchical position of the regions within the administrative system. The structure of the region will be a very delicate thing, the competence of the regions, the financing of regions, the representation of regions, the selection of representative bodies in those regions and, above all, the creation of an electoral model that would satisfy this new structure. In principle, the SDSS Club believes that the state needs to move towards stronger administrative and, in particular, fiscal decentralisation in the future. After all, it is more than obvious that there are today several different areas of Croatia both in the development and investment of the central state in certain areas, which in itself in some ways implies the existence of different regions. And to finish, we think we support this process and future regionalization, but first of all today we support this concept of the draft amendments to the Republic of Croatia's Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63425	Thank you very much. Comrade Dujomir Marasović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63426	Dear Brother Mile between Croats and Serbs is to be deepened, the right style should be created, and the right law of the brain and the heart based all on the laws of God. And this should be presented to one and the other and, in some ways, to the greatest extent possible under today’s conditions. There's nothing Mile can do about the law... Serbs had the status of the people in Croatia, now they have the status of national minorities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now it's worth it to them that they've had a fight, an accident, trouble all over the place. These guys here are just fooling you. They are not aware that they create national hatred without need in Vukovar, without need. You and me, we'll call in 100 Serbs. You call 18 years and worse, all age groups and both sexes, in two hours we'll reach an agreement that will solve this issue. Because we're gonna tell these people, there's a mother here who walks on the ice and underneath that ledge are her son's bones. Let's find these kids, let's solve it that way and we'll solve all the problems. It's not in the interest of the Serbian people to raise tensions and this nonsense, force. There is no solution in Vukovar. What do you want the law if there's a misunderstanding there that's mildly said not to say hate and increase hate? It's a chain wheel that needs to be broken, it needs to be turned in a different direction. A complete agreement between the heart and the brain, more hearts than the brain, and it can't be without a brain. And all according to the laws of God, there is no solution without it. Never has the force solved anything, the pendejos at least and this kind of policy and will never solve it like she didn't solve it in '45. We were talking about brotherhood and unity, and we were fighting under our feet and they were blue legs from a fight under the table.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63427	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63428	Dear Brother Dujomir, I'm not quite sure I understood what you were about to say but there were some things nice to hear. Anyway, I'm thinking what I said in the introduction. As representatives of national minorities, we have watched what is happening and when the matter is going on, we have then taken part in this debate and analyzed the overall relations and resolutions around our status in the last year, two days, by analysing the social scene and all that is directed towards us, we have realized that this position of the Constitutional Law as the Bible of all national minorities in the Republic of Croatia under the Constitution, so the basic rule of conduct should be set in the right way. And the relationship to this constitutional law needs to be brought to the proper order. And that was our wish. And everything else you've said can be polymerized. I could open up here and question what you said to find out who went missing. I couldn't agree more, any victim if I understood correctly what you were going to say, every victim and every grave should be discovered, but I have to tell you something here. I don't know if that's said out loud, there's still 1689 of those unaccounted for, so undiscovered graves. It's 900 and some Croatian, the rest are Serbian. I call on the other side to find these other 700 or how much as this first side has to find these 900. If I understood correctly what you were about to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63429	Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63430	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Horvat you said, you welcomed these constitutional changes that go in order to change this session schedule, so you said that long breaks irritate the public. It seems to me that the public is irritated by the irresponsibility, disorganization, ineffectiveness of the Parliament. A hyperinflation of laws that change before they're passed. We are witnessing here that the government even has amendments to its own bill after the debate in the Parliament is over. On the other hand, we change those laws and three, four times a year. This story of long sessions, or long spaces between sessions, simply does not stand. The German parliament is meeting 22 weeks a year. But it's on committees. They have 600 MPs, they have 2600 professional associates, and it can't happen that because of nomotechnical or not knowing what mistakes things later make. And we simply don't have a meeting calendar, nor do we know what's going to be discussed this afternoon. A little while ago, we heard we were going to discuss another point today. What tomorrow will be on the agenda, we don't know. It is said that there will be an extraordinary session, when it will be, it may be the chosen know but the MPs do not know, therefore we do not have time to prepare for the session, it is not done professionally and that is what irritates the public and not the number of days and cannot be measured by the efficiency of the Assembly by whether someone is sitting here or sitting in his room, studying laws or consulting himself with the profession and others.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63431	Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63432	Thank you. Dear Comrade Tudjman, I can almost sign everything you said, I absolutely agree with you. It's very hard to prove to the public how much we work here, and it's usually a question when I get back to our midst, and you're not where you are, you're not doing anything, you're not sitting there in the benches. It's hard for people to tell that we other than this business have a number of other activities and party and some other communications by executive bodies, by ministries, by needs. The needs are great for these things. But unfortunately, the media created such a picture so it's a perception that we don't work here, that we're gone, that we have enormous incomes, that we have enormous privileges and that we have two months of vacation over the summer and a month now over the winter, and then they add it up to us in some days. Then the media comes out with statistics and tells us how many days and hours we spent here, and then they complete such a negative picture, and then when you get back to a small environment, then you come into the bakery and you don't work again. So this thing isn't gonna fix that picture. I have no illusions but it seemed to me that, it seemed very practical for this correction to be done, to simply eliminate some kind of strict constitutional gauge for the meeting and the president, the presidency would probably then get the opportunity to do this thing more flexiblely because whenever we had the session announced it was discussed by the Bureau of Parliament and sought to reach some consensus of all the parties about calling a session.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63433	And Vladimir Shakespeare's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63434	Thank you very much. Col. Horvat, if I understand you correctly, you support this part and those constitutional changes relating to that article 83, that is that the laws governing the rights of national minorities, the laws governing matters important for the exercise of office, the work of the Constitutional Court and the laws governing the implementation of the Constitution to be adopted in the procedure laid down for the amendment of the Constitution and that the Croatian Parliament can decide by majority of the votes of all legislators to adopt the other law in the procedure laid down for the amendment of the Constitution. I would like to point out that from the point of view of the profession, that accepting such a proposed constitutional text would mean a serious disturbance of the country's normative order which, in any way, could not be corrected by any constitutional interpretation. Why? The power of constitutional laws would be given to laws governing the rights of national minorities, the Constitutional Court and the implementation of the Constitution. Other laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament by majority vote that they can obtain the power of constitutional laws and the organic laws referred to in Article 83(2) of the Constitution governing the established human rights and fundamental freedoms, electoral system, structure, detour and way of working of the state bodies, and the establishment and detour of local and regional, regional self-government, the Croatian Parliament brings most of the votes of all MPs. Therefore, following this constitutional change, a greater constitutional force would have ordinary laws which could, by majority vote, determine that a procedure for amending the Constitution is adopted than those of organic laws governing fundamental human rights and freedoms, the electoral system, the structure and the partial body of the state government. This and all constitutional legal experts mark it as one challenge to the country's normative order. That's why I suggest you give up the others to give up that proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63435	The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63436	Thank you. I have no doubt that in one part you are wrong. I was in such dilemmas when I analyzed this article 83. However, if we implement this matter in practice and if we face tomorrow the need to raise a certain problem at the level of the Constitutional Law and it is not excluded that it will not be in the consolidation of the new EU relations now, then this as I understand it is possible for the Parliament to decide to enter into the procedure for the adoption of such constitutional law, of course by the criteria of the Constitution. It's probably a matter of discussion and controversy, and here we have these seven, eight days until next Thursday. I suppose the president, too, will agree that this matter is still to be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63437	On behalf of the national minority club, counterparts Nedzad Hodzic and Dragan Montenegrin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63438	Thank you, Madam Vice President. There are days that really make it worth the while to do some work. It's one of those days for me today, so I'm gonna start that way. I really think that in an independent Croatia that has achieved all those goals that have led to the separation from the former Yugoslavia, it is time for us to start with brotherhood and unity within this independent sovereign member state of NATO, and therefore I will begin this discussion, dear brother Dujomira, dear brother Mile, dear sisters and dear brothers as religious officials. You'll get us very easily for this brotherhood, but I'm afraid this brotherhood needs to be done first of all in the domicile population because these constitutional changes and everything that's been going on over the past few months I'm afraid they're talking about large divisions. And I'm going to express my regret today that it is so. As Croatia's society is divided today, I fear that there are no societies in the EU or countries that are such a sharp cleavage. I'm afraid that in this country we can't think identically about World War II, we can't have a consensus on Jasenovac, we can't have a consensus on Bleiburg, we can't have a consensus on what happened even in the Homeland War on me, and that's sad. So today I'm not going to say anything special about this constitutional change except a few hints is all said. This division can also be seen in the adoption of these constitutional changes. As for the Club of National Minorities, our colleagues participated in the work of the Working Group, two of our members were others. Radin and Dr. The Pupović gave his pain and we regret that you and your HDZ colleagues did not participate in this at the same time as you defend your arguments with the right of your position, but I think you should have participated in that part of the work group and defend your views. So I'd say maybe you'd do something through working together and let's say push through. I don't want to give a lecture, I'm sorry. I repeat, I'm sorry that this society is so deeply divided and you can admit it or not admit it, I think so, and I think that these divisions are too deep. As for the changes themselves, I am pleased that the final regulation of the referendum will allow all citizens of this country, and also for us in politics that we no longer deal with such matters, that we do not convince ourselves that we are going to go to a referendum, how many votes to get, how many signatures, how many people can decide or what it is a referendum issue that is constitutional but also what is not constitutional. So that's the final question we're going to take away. The question of Lex Perkovic is something we talked about in this country, and I'm first glad that it is also moving and that things are defined. I hope that if there is a need for our judiciary to respond to what was referred to as Lex Perkovic's law. The issue of the work of the Croatian Parliament is, of course, defined and I agree with colleagues who talk about how much this Parliament does, it is important that the public perception is not as it is today because it is not true. I can say that even in the summer period, when the Parliament doesn't work, we have to come to the club, we have to answer to people who are talking to us at the National Minority Club, and I believe that you colleagues have a lot of work to do too, a lot of you both at local level or you're mayors or you have certain obligations. So the perception of the Parliament and the MPs is not good, and I hope that will change. And of course, if the need for an extraordinary ambush is here, we are here to do what is necessary for the needs of all citizens and this country. In the end, I would just like to say that he is looking forward to me and I expect that, or that all the expensive political spears we will cross over in the next period after the adoption of these changes, whatever they are, and whatever they are, we will think about them differently. I hope that we will all commit ourselves together to the economic well-being of this country, that, out of opposition, we will make quality legislative proposals that we will discuss here and that sooner or later we will come to a society that is primarily a country of equal citizens before the law and a country of economic well-being that I will once again repeat to me the only two political goals that this country has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63439	Dragan the Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63440	Thank you. So here's what my colleague Hodzic told me at the National Minorities Club, but also my colleague Horvat from the SDSS, we're going to be involved in this draft amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and if it's hard to ask us to make changes ourselves, so to speak, given that there are only eight of us in the Croatian Assembly, maybe it's much easier for all the other representatives, because if we take away 8 from 51 MPs, we know very well how well that bill is quite enough to change the Constitution or any other act that this High House brings. As far as the Constitution itself is concerned, we've heard a lot of things at the very beginning today and even from some fundamental provisions of this Constitution changing, and now we're as likable as that sounds to you and it's very dangerous for everyone. OBLIGATION, the removal of ZAVNOH from the Constitution, you can say that it may have sounded nice but you know very well, and those people who have participated in the making of all the constitutions so far but also the amendment of the constitution that he is not alone but he says the following "In the establishment of a fundamental state... in the period of World War II expressed against the declaration of an independent state of Croatia by the decisions of the earthly anti-fascist council". One of these decisions is a declaration saying it is returning to Croatia, Istria, Zadar, islands and other territory under Italian occupation. It's not just so cute to say and then pick up here maybe a laugh or a co-worker's approval. Unfortunately, perhaps these things really need to be nurtured more than has been done so far, and I also think of the restoration of these monuments and that culture perhaps. And I don't think we should deal with it that easily. As for the proposal tabled by the President of the Republic, Mr. Josipovic, I could hear more than once today that he is an authorised promoter. Well, they're all authorized applicants in a public debate. At this point, it is normal for the president of the Republic of Croatia, Josipovic. In a public debate that was all able to propose amendments and supplement the Constitution. Also, taking from these proposals sent to us by President Josipovic, I also saw the floor, so by proposal number two, that he said that a life union other than marriage is guaranteed the right to family life and its protection. But I didn't hear it once today that you said it should enter the Constitution. That's not necessary. Right? Well, you can't take something without taking something. What one politician would say is you can't pee and poop or take or leave. But it would be good in any case, as I said, that we as members of the national minorities were involved in drawing up a draft, so that it would be good to bring these things with a high consensus. What we participated in in this draft was this part of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities which was discussed when Croatia was to join the EU, so the Constitutional Court then annulled some of the provisions even though we were working on it together. And I would read here about this issue and bilingualism, but also about raising rights or protecting rights, human rights, and even the rights of national minorities through new amendments to the Constitution, I would read here when so much for that Cyrillic to say so I would read the following. It says in the area the use of Cyrillic is prohibited. Any use of Cyrillic is prohibited, and is particularly relevant to the entire business of all state, self-government bodies, public order offices, commercial and similar books and correspondence, all public inscriptions. It seems to us similar to this proposed referendum now, only to add this issue to other national minorities. And this would probably be supported by many who are now in favour of the issue. And now I'll fill in the next one. The use of Cyrillic in the area of an independent country of Croatia is prohibited. This legal provision takes effect on the day of its declaration in the National Journal, and implementation is entrusted by the Ministry of the Interior. Any use of Cyrillic in the entire area of an independent state of Croatia is prohibited. This applies in particular, etc. etc. Interior Minister Dr Andrija Artuvic, head of Dr Ante Pavelic. No, no. I pulled it out of the People's Newspaper. I didn't take that, I didn't have any needs. We think it's enough... We think these things are happening today. [[You can't hear it.]] [[Breaker Zgrebec: A colleague!]] What was supposed to be done [[Intruder Zgrebec: Col. Jandroković let his colleague say what he thinks.]] that some basic, basic human rights are derived from the context, to find holes in the Constitution, in the law, in constitutional laws, and that some things want to change in order to what? [[Grebec intrusion: Not compared.]] Destabilized the government, and no one cares about it that it might be done to any harm. Nobody cares how I live, how I care how others live, how I live. I think this must be one of the reasons why we, not only like I told my colleagues at the SDSS Club, but also at the National Minorities Club, will support these constitutional changes. But I'm sure it would have been good if everyone had participated. Maybe it wouldn't be easy, maybe it would be different, maybe that proposal would look different. But in any case, we think it's good to raise to a higher level of protection of these rights anyway. And as far as the referendum's concerned, it's a good thing it's arranged, that the proposal goes this way. I'm sure what I'd like to see happen is that until the end, even the question of a local referendum is settled. Because we know very well that what it isn't, let's say, that it can't be compared to this. You so have that in some units of local self-government you need a lot more votes to first of all, as first of all, go to the referendum, and then vote on it, etc. etc. But I'm sure there's a need for these things and these things to be arranged locally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63441	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the replicas to show colleagues Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63442	So you tell your colleague that you will mainly discuss your own debate, so you have done more to dedicate to this sad fact that we have been witnessing lately in Croatia, in an effort to make certain that since the latter happens in society. And that's what needs to be revealed, and that's something that's a little bit exposed. Although they create a lot of noise, jam, but they are essentially minorities. And all those who support them, but it's true that these crimes are still being debated since World War II, and here it is true. Wherever there's no conviction for any crime it will be. And that is why both the European and the world community has insisted that we get the strength, if not alone, through our own institutions, through the international tribunal and those who are ad hoc ones created to be tried because only condemnation for a concrete crime is the future, the stock of a common future here among us, among us. Therefore, there are no of mine, there are no of ours or yours, or ours or your men who have committed crimes. Those who committed crimes are evil crimes, not ours, not yours. And that should make it all agreeable and even with these changes. So you tell your colleague that you will mainly discuss your own debate, so you have done more to dedicate to this sad fact that we have been witnessing lately in Croatia, in an effort to make certain that since the latter happens in society. And that's what needs to be revealed, and that's something that's a little bit exposed. Although they create a lot of noise, jam, but they are essentially minorities. And all those who support them, but it's true that these crimes are still being debated since World War II, and here it is true. Wherever there's no conviction for any crime it will be. And that is why both the European and the world community has insisted that we get the strength, if not alone, through our own institutions, through the international tribunal and those who are ad hoc ones created to be tried because only condemnation for a concrete crime is the future, the stock of a common future here among us, among us. Therefore, there are no of mine, there are no of ours or yours, or ours or your men who have committed crimes. Those who committed crimes are evil crimes, not ours, not yours. And that should make it all agreeable and even with these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63443	Nejad Hodzic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63444	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Look, maybe it's easier for us minors to see that division, we're looking at it from the side. I honestly want those divisions gone, but they're visible. And, of course, these changes that have been made to ensure that all crimes are punishable, that they do not become obsolete, I support them, but I warn you here and I want to say that our responsibility is primarily for what happens in this country from independence to here. So, we don't want to deny any crime, whether it happened during communism, whether it happened during NDH or any period, but also very important that this consensus, this minimum community in its own state, get all the political options, let's take us away from the minorities as the citizens that we are here and who when you build up or when we all together build such a society for all people, for equality before the law for all people, we'll be the happiest. We'll find the means to sing the Sevdalin girl ourselves or play some Serbian bike, you give us a neat society, and then we'll have a good time alone with this cultural autonomy of ours. As long as we don't have the safety of the law, it's not the real state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63445	Vladimir Shakespeare, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63446	I agree and share my colleague Hodzic with you your concern over the growing and stronger divisions in Croatian society and indeed one moment has already passed to bury these trenches and that these divisions are prevailing. These divisions are causing enormous damage. The responsibility for these divisions cannot be located only on a particular political option or side. It's worth the principle of one of those Peter Shegedin books, "We're all responsible." We are the Croatian state, the Croatian state was created on the general Croatian national reconciliation, not the reconciliation of ideology but the reconciliation of people of all religions, all nationalities and this was the basis... on which the Croatian state was created. Now these foundations are beginning to shake. That's why I support this appeal of yours and the proposal to move towards, indeed, the final moment to move towards closing those divisions and towards the general national consensus. But that is why there should be the goodwill of all, precisely all political components of Croatian society. Second, what you say we didn't participate. We were unable to participate when we were excluded because they refused to discuss the Constitutional Committee on a proposal for constitutional changes submitted by the HDZ Club. So we couldn't just stay there then models to discuss other people's proposals, all the other initiatives and suggestions, and only not to be discussed from our party. That was why we didn't...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63447	Thank you very much. Replication response, Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63448	What do you say in response to the replica? I thank you for that I would say the support you showed me because I am the truth concerned. In this country my children, my sons, are born, and I want this society to be a model community first of all in the region and to those countries from which we have been separated in time. I'm sad that the adoption of these constitutional changes won't be, I remember, so don't get this wrong, I'm not calling for any former country, so we all ran out of it to go to some new and better countries, but I remember one detail when the Constitution was declared in '74. For years, I was in grade two, grade three, we were at some dance, in a kindergarten, the tutor came, interrupted all the happy adoption of the Constitution, even though we didn't even know what it was at that time. I'm sorry it won't be this time. And I invite you all together, give the historians a period until the '90s, but let's build a society from the '90s. in here, you're going to have to reach a consensus on those who represent both the right and the left, and I found myself in a conversation with these two young lawyers the other day, and I just said in the hallway that these are my political favorites from the left, Peju Grbina and a colleague from the HDSSB. So let's let no matter how you look at society, the basic principles cannot be broken, and history is what it is, it should look into its eyes and in those good aspects and in those bad ones. And I think that for the future, we and our children and this country as new demos of youth must be cleared up once.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63449	Davorin's Mlakar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63450	Dear fellow Hodzic, I'm not sure I understand the categories you're thinking about, which you were talking about, but I'll tell you what prompted me to reply to your speech. No, we do not just want to be the peri-state of order in the region, we would like to be a model country first because of ourselves, and then also because of the European Union whose member we are. We would like to move away once from that region and go somewhere in a circle of Western European countries that we hold to belong. But what I think is incorrect on your part, and I'm not going to use other expressions, that you are here telling HDZ representatives about how they should or should have been working in the task force or on the Committee on the Constitution. You said exactly that two representatives of national minorities participated in the work group, but you didn't and you don't really know what that work looked like. You could only hear something indirectly, be given information about what it looks like. We have witnessed firsthand how it was done there, and we know why we have made a decision not to participate in such work. And if there's going to be an opportunity, I don't want to do that to you, to participate in a work that even a comma you would suggest will not be regarded as an observation but rather a debate about it, then I'm going to ask you how broad-minded you are and how much understanding you have for others, and then you participate in a work that seems as forward as it has proved to the end completely pointless. That work was greatly contributed by the chairman of this committee, and this is thanking him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63451	Replication response, Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63452	Yeah, I wasn't involved, but, you know, we're in a democratic society, the rule of the majority is in action. Therefore, it was at the time when you were in power. Whether you've accepted comments from this side or not, I don't know. I'm sorry, I just... I expressed my regret that you didn't participate. You may have been able to bring your attitudes closer through that debate. But I believe that often these times on my right, too, were in a position not to accept points or marks. So this is what today is the highest level of one society's leadership, democracy is and so it is. I would just like you to bring everyone together in the future, this country needs both a right and a left policy option, to draw closer to the basic principles of its position, and not to discuss things 50 years ago but to discuss here your legal proposal how to improve the economy and organise the ministry and anything else and the suggestions of colleagues on the other hand. And of course, most will always make the decision they will make. It's guaranteed by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63453	We now have replicas of the presentation of our fellow Montenegrin. Vladimir Shakespeare, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63454	A colleague of Montenegro is not all authorised promoters for amendments to the Constitution. Only three are authorised, the President of the Republic, the Government and 1/5 MPs. Only three categories. Others can all be promoters but not authorized. Secondly, I do not think it is appropriate in this context to compare some NDH acts in the Croatian Parliament with the Croatian State. In the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the Christmas Constitution President Tudjman is the author of the original foundations, he is the author only. This was accepted as saying in these original grounds that in establishing the foundation of state sovereignty during World War II... against the declaration of an independent state of Croatia. The totalitarian regime, the black totalitarian regime NDH was condemned in the original foundations of the Constitution. And do not, by any means, compare the criminal regime of NDH with the modern Croatian state and the current Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63455	Replication response, Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63456	The public hearing was open. I know who the proposings are, but in a public debate, everyone is authorized to make their proposals. I'm sorry, sir, to make their proposals. And the other thing, as far as what you're talking about, I was warning you because there are too many similar things. I don't speak in the state, I don't speak but some tendencies. I know you understand what I'm saying, I'm absolutely sure of it, but I'm glad you've just said it again. Not that I provoked anyone but I think like I said because I read exactly what you read that was dangerous, and you just said the same thing. So thank you for noticing on my suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63457	Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63458	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In his debate, a fellow Montenegrin urged that decisions related to what it says about ZAVNOH and this Constitution should be respected. My colleague Shakespeare read the first part of the sentence, but he didn't read what came next. It means that, at the foundation of state sovereignty during World War II, it goes against the declaration but goes further on to the historic turning point of the rejection of the communist system and the change of the international order in Europe. Therefore, if we are discussing the Constitution today and we are using a general formulation of the non-aging of serious crimes, and we are not in a position to trace the European political and legal heritage to give the condemnation of the crimes committed in totalitarian regimes, then your discussion where you quote only the implications of the NDH on today's situation, then your argument brings us back to the 1990s and what happened behind that is inadmissible on the double side of today's situation to evaluate and also not agree to the condemnation of communist crimes, that is, all crimes of the totalitarian system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63459	Replication response, Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63460	Dear Mr. Tudjman, you know I'm in this attitude if you were this morning, and I think it is, I meant what one representative suggested we should throw ZAVNOH out of this. So that's the first thing. That was my intention first. And as for what you were saying, I don't know, I'm not sure, but I know that some of them are still being prosecuted today, I don't know how. We know there's an investigation going on, it seems to me like a Bolshevik, maybe not, I don't know, I'm not sure, but if it's done then it means that some things can be processed. Is that not enough, is it really and it was certainly the wish of the HDZ Club to find these things in this draft amendments to the Constitution. I may be wrong on one side just because you're saying you won't support these changes. But there are other things that the Constitution changes that I would certainly like you to say that, that's that, that's what we're looking for, but I've never heard such confirmatory information once. I'll go back to this, I don't know, but I think some trials happened. If it was necessary, then I don't know why these legal experts didn't bother anymore, or even the Constitutional Court, or the Constitutional Court judges, to say that it should be in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63461	Gordan Jandrokovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63462	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, first of all, I just wanted to replicate your thesis about President Josipovic's letter to President Lek so that we can accept something and we can't do something about it. Of course, we have carefully read what Mr. Josipovic said and there are acceptable things we have pointed to and there are things for us that we would not accept. But since you mention it. On behalf of the HDSSB today, my colleague Buric spoke very strongly, so you acted on your own, so I hope that if you are to be consistent that you will consider whether you will support constitutional changes if your HDSB colleagues support them as well if you want to lead the controversy in this way. But unfortunately, what you did in the follow-up to your presentation is much more important and much more dangerous for democracy and for all of us living in the Republic of Croatia today. Comparing a modern Croatian state, an EU member and quoting some laws from the Independent State of Croatia that there is a consensus among all of us here that was a criminal, skating creation unlike there is no consensus on the communist period because many of you here do not want to recognise the totalitarian character of this society, as among some of your colleagues there is no clear definition of what the Homeland War is, so do not play with fire. Don't play with fire, Professor Tudjman told you, what you do is very much like what happened in the late '80s and early '90s. Because anti-communism is not necessarily necessary in the Croatian right political being and it is not at all, in very rare situations it is to call on the uprising and do not make such dangerous and corrupt delusions because Croatians from the centre to the right have their own worldview and do not do what the left has done for 45 years that everyone who has been an opponent of communism is accused of being a chauvinist and a Ustasha. That's not true. And these tendencies are again present in Croatia today because part of Croatia's left seeks to accuse anyone who is critical of communism, who speaks openly about certain things that... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63463	Comrade Jandrokovic, your time is up. Stick to the rules of procedure. The answer to the replica of Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63464	And I was talking about the proposal, about what President Josipovic sent after you were in one piece, I think Mr Jurjevic said that you would support his candidate for president. When you spoke so nicely of one piece of President Josipovic, and then you give up in this first reading, what do you say you read well that you still don't accept it, right? So, on the one hand, you gluff him and then you reject what he is, you reject his whole proposal. He should still be consistent. What about the other stuff? Today I read a text saying that anti-Communism or the fight against communism cannot be justified by anti-fascism. That's what one of your colleagues said. But I can tell you that I'm not sick of it. I haven't lived much in that system, maybe a few years to the 1990s, until the new Croatian state so I don't have any idea but what I'm going to tell you is that many times it seems to be attacking antifascism and that antifascist and victims and liquids and whatever else you want are equating with communism and that it was a wrong system and it's all undermining with one thesis that maybe we should give up on antifascism. That's what you said at the beginning of this morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63465	Next replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63466	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, a fellow Montenegrin, in this part of the debate where you talk about a referendum and compare it with this from NDH's raw newspapers, you are certainly wrong and you are as aware as part of the people living in Slavonia, you are aware that this referendum, the collection of signatures and the attempt to remove Cyrillic from the city of Vukovar in due course as a city of victims is just a reaction to this arrogant introduction of Cyrillic boards. They should have waited for the wounds to heal, for the dead to be buried on both sides and for the time to come in full constitutional law in Article 8. This is how your people are satisfied with the work and our people are not content with it. This is not the full application of the Constitutional Law in Article 8 and the referendum question is the answer and the compromise can be clear. Let us postpone as we did some things in Podunavlje so that there will be no greater tensions, in order to achieve the unity that has begun and co-existence in good intentions to go through. The answer is these 650 thousand signatures involving a good part of the Danube Serbs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63467	The answer to the replica of Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63468	Well, well related to Vukovar, perhaps many do not know but there are many cultural monuments in Vukovar that date back to the 17th century where you have inscriptions only on Cyrillic, only on Cyrillic and in restoration now in the restoration of Vukovar and in the restoration of these buildings, these are normally inscriptions left like Alexa Paunović, the magazine Mihajlović in the very heart of the city, I don't think I know how to change them. But let me tell you one thing to the other, as far as the number that is one of the conditions for bilingual is concerned, we all know that in the past 10 years, or maybe less, it was 32.89%, and maybe there was talk about these last 10 years, but no matter how well you noticed and there were some two-letter records that didn't bother anyone. Why is this now being asked as a question? Probably some of them set up as Vukovar's redefense, but I don't know what. You said in Vukovar there's a majority of our minorities, I'd say there are only one Vulcans in Vukovar. I think you should ask most of them about it. In Vukovar we have many other problems which unfortunately, she was gonna say one power and the other changed but we haven't solved these things. And you know what was so much easier to solve than these questions. And I'm sure you agree with me that these things that I'm talking about right now should have been solved not even 10 years ago, but right at the beginning when it could have been solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63469	Time. The new replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63470	You quoted NN from the NDH with the signature of Andrija Artuković in connection with the use of Cyrillic. How do you explain that by the 1990s there was no Cyrillic board in the city of Vukovar? Did the communist authorities listen to Andrija Artukovic? How do you explain that until half a year ago, until these plates were put up by none of the Serbs, and you didn't object to the plates that were on the Latin? Was there a protest for bilingual boards? They were gone. No, no one objected to the tablets that existed in the city of Vukovar on the Latin. What you were saying about the local referendum that this issue is not almost or touched by these new constitutional changes, I agree and there is a difference between this referendum at the level of the state and at the level of local self-government. The referendum in the area of local self-government is actually almost doomed in the beginning, so it does not need to be implemented because it is difficult to achieve any change through the referendum. I agree with that, but with this first part, there's something I'd like you to say to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63471	The answer of Dragan Black.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63472	I'm going to start Mr. Grubisic from this second one, this may even be the answer to that question I didn't answer in one replica, and there was a question about how we can now vote together with you to vote these changes or to participate in that. So here's exactly what you said about some things we can agree that the issue of local referendums should be further arranged. And I think it's only now that we've voted on the same thing recently on the draft budget, but it doesn't matter to me. As for this first one, why didn't we protest against the Latin plates, so why would we protest against the Latin plates? In Croatia, the latinic letter is official and Croatian. As for the 1990s, I'll tell you, and I think someone mentioned it today until the 1990s, Serbs were a constituent people. There were other inscriptions that unfortunately no longer exist in Vukovar on a Cyrillic letter. I think it's clear to all of us about Latina, Latina has always been an official letter. I don't know why we should object to Latin inscriptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63473	Thank you. New replica. Are you done? Yes, it is. The new replica of Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63474	It's getting happier here, and that's good. I volunteered for the replica of my fellow Montenegrin for two reasons. One is that you spoke on behalf of the club, used the time without even talking about changes to the Constitution. You used the replicas after your speech to talk about something else entirely. You said one thing about changing the Constitution and you said it wrong. Article 147 of our Constitution says "The right to propose a change to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has at least 1/5 MPs in the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia" are your fellow authorised promoters of the Constitution. That's what we've been talking about, so don't be surprised why others aren't authorized by the promoters to change the Constitution. And what's more important is why you actually came up with a topic that has nothing to do with the changes in the Constitution. It is unacceptable for you to quote documents for the Assembly speaker, the laws of the Independent State of Croatia and take the right to be a special interpreter of this policy and those rules that you have taken to quote here. No one has a special right to speak in this way, no one can consider themselves particularly affected by this time and speak to us in this way as you have taken it upon yourself to be right. I won't even comment on any of the expressions you used. Speaking of changes to the Constitution, then you talk about what this is about, and the subject you're talking about, it's time for us all to talk about it together, but then on that subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63475	Time. Replication response, Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63476	Well, I'll say it one more time, I'll read it. So the right to propose a change to the Constitution, and I said that there was a public debate where everyone could come forward with their proposals, and an authorised promoter such as Mr. Shakespeare who came out now and said that, he quoted here that among other things was the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So the Croatian Parliament has proposed amendments to the Constitution, but certainly all other citizens are free to propose these changes or any other. What, then, is the institution of public debate for us? Only if we're talking or not getting along in some things. As for this other one, I will take my right to say that I have the right to speak of it. Maybe someone can forbid me, and maybe they can't. I feel like I can talk about it, so under that regime, and now I'm not going to talk about others, although many others have died, among other things, and Croats, perhaps not among other things, but the same in a more numerous, very numerous part, and that's why we should talk about it, not that you're taking away my right and you can't take it away from me, but everyone, in that context. As to whether I was speaking in context when I spoke on behalf of the National Minorities Club, so I was saying, only you probably didn't want to hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63477	A fellow Montenegrin, no one can take away your right to speak at the Croatian Parliament. You're the elected representative. ... Next replica, Josip Boric. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63478	Thank you very much. Comrade Montenegrin, this invitation to tolerance in this way that you brought here seems more like a provocation to me and it was really inappropriate and I don't know what he's doing in this debate about constitutional change at all. But apart from the fact that there is a Serb national minority in Croatia, there is a Croatian national minority in Serbia, so I'm trying to imagine that one of our representatives in the National Assembly of Serbia that we have and we've only had 3 in these 20 years, so that it can be spent in that assembly to speak in this way. Let's make each of us think of it as a parliamentary representative. Would that be appropriate? What could he possibly hear from everyone else there? I don't know if it's really a contribution to what you're talking about, to tolerance, or if it's a simple provocation. I call you once again when we talk about these crimes, especially in times of communism, you are representatives of the Serb national minority in the Republic of Croatia, come to the naked island, there were 7500 Serbian citizens who were imprisoned and bow down to those victims if you care about it, regardless of the system, to everything that was wrong that they were there. But you won't do it. I'll host you, come there. ... We don't need to invite you, we have 23.8, the day when victims of totalitarian systems are marked so come over there and bow down and be true representatives. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Do not do what you do because you are doing damage to the Serb national minority in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63479	Replication response, Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63480	I'm sorry if you saw this as a provocation, I sincerely hope you didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63481	Keep responding to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63482	As for the introduction, I said it would be nice if we all voted with consensus on these amendments and complements or amendments to the Constitution, and in this direction I wanted to speak, not to go back, so we should not even accept this first proposal by President Josipovic because as soon as we return to it, we should return to some original community, maybe we should go back to some tribal alliance or I don't know what, so I guess we should improve the Constitution, I guess we should improve democracy in the Republic of Croatia and the rights of others. As far as I'm concerned, I'll tell Mr. Kuntić, we had the Committee on Human Rights today, but among other things, we mentioned him, but I'll tell you that we are very much helping Mr. Kuntić and we, Mr. Kuntić, because we are in a similar situation or at least the same situation. I would like Mr. Kuntic to have as few problems as possible and to have as many rights applied. I wouldn't want him or anyone else to be taken away from any rights that he's supposed to exercise. Unfortunately, when someone talked about applying even these highest ones today, or about the adoption of these constitutional laws on the rights of national minorities, I would like them to be implemented. I would like to be honest that certain provisions of the constitutional law that have not been consumed so far have been implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63483	Next line, Nedjad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63484	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I am extremely pleased that today in this Parliament and on your part or other colleagues have talked about anti-fascism, and I will be extremely happy to hear it from the right side because in these last 20 years, in our right political spectrum or youth that is gravitating this political spectrum, despite the constitutional provisions that bind us to anti-fascism have happened especially with Thompson's concerts of certain things that flirt with the constitution. That's gotta stop. It's no longer a practice. But it's a flirtation with the constitution. And I'm extremely glad that you and I are asking you to repeat it more often in public today. This country has no reason to be ashamed of being created in anti-fascism. However, antifascism was not even political either, it was the alliance of both the capitalist America and the socialist Russia, and this Yugoslavia as it was at that time was or the republic we were creating. So, I'm glad you're talking about anti-fascism today. You may not have chosen a suitable way to talk about it today, but it is extremely important that you and Vukovar tell the people who suffered that John Paul forgave the Turk who killed him, so that the victim and the Cyrillic who did no harm to anyone. So what should the Bosniaks tell me in Srebrenica? Well, we shouldn't write a single letter because if we look at it that way, the Cyrillic killed us, and on the other hand, the Dutch battalion didn't protect us. We shouldn't write a single letter. The letter is just a fortune.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63485	The next replica Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63486	Dear Mr. President, a fellow Montenegrin. I was saying, in the first word, I mentioned ZANOH, and then five times later I mentioned ZONA, about ZOZNO. And enough lessons for the Croats. No more secrets. A historic moment came when democracy was established in Croatia. He has every right to speak the truth and a period of history has ended that the Croatian should remain silent in order to remain alive and be equal even if he pays for it with his head. Don't lecture anyone anymore, least of all for the Croats or me. So, I'm saying Zavonoh. What's the point? Because that's what I was going to say about you being the second face of fascism. Because we had fascist ideology on one side. It's the killings of 546 Catholic priests, it's the killing of 5 hundred thousand people after the end of the war operations, it's the killing of these children right here by the stations of the 14-year-old tram line. It's killing, oppression based on national, religious and any other freedom. What's the difference between what Artukovic signed and what's supposed to be killing Jews? It's racial hatred. And what's the difference? They're underground. Because Tito killed those who weren't political like-minded. It's based on politics and one and the other are underground. For me, communism is equal to fascism, or communism is the second face of fascism and it's over. I don't think I'm talking about anything else. This fascist ideology, including in Croatia in terms of NDH, has been condemned. This should be condemned. That's what we're talking about. And as far as you're concerned, I'm surprised that you don't understand that in the old Yugoslavia we're talking about the context is easier, ours in terms of Banovina hrvatska The agreement in some way for the Croatian people. [[/Intruder Stazic: Thank you very much. Time.]] And this country that started in ZAVNOH ended up in blood, but that system produced blood, blood after 30 years. And so that's the second face of fascism, communism and dictatorship is the second face of fascism for me, and for you I don't know, and that's all I want to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63487	Comrade Marasovic, time has expired to be heard by the late President Tudjman, I don't know what he would say, what he would do to you. The answer to the replica of Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63488	So I hear you mentioned it first, I'm sorry that you mentioned ZOVNO this morning. That's why I'm discussing it. But as far as the victims are concerned, of course I'll point those things out. Do you know how long it's been since we got the number of Serbs in Croatia? At 186,000, no one's worried about it. ... Well, I don't know, you tell me. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63489	All right, guys, let's stop throwing ourselves around like this. You respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63490	Well, here's the answer, I mean, this is my answer. What? Am I supposed to say there's not that much, maybe it shouldn't be. ... /Upadica Stazic: A colleague of Marasović is to be treated with parliamentary behaviour./ [[/Intruder Marasovic, you can't hear.]] Here, I'll try to be as short as possible. [[/Intruder Marasovic, you can't hear.]] [[Intruding Stazic: Act parliamentaryly first.]] I also know people who are like civilians, who you mention as civilian war victims killed and there are some around to say in one, I'm talking about one locality 450 were killed, and now there's football playing there. Is that where football should be played? Do you need it? Well, I don't think you should, as well as all the other victims. And these things need to be protected by the state. But no, I mean don't take this as a message to me, but here's Mr. Hodzic talked about it more than once. So make a clear distance. I know you'll tell us what you're thinking. But let's make it clear when it comes to these topics or to the public of these things. I know that certainly the Croatian Democratic Community is in those positions. But please help us for a public change. Say that publicly more than once.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63491	The latest replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63492	Thank you very much. A fellow Montenegrin you said in your debate this matter of the referendum was well resolved. Let us send this proposal a solution constitutionally to the French and Swiss parliament and wait for what they think of this solution. We'll see if it's a good solution or if it's actually a disabling referendum. So this Article 4(5), which says more than 50% of voters must be declared for the total number of voters. This has never been anywhere before for any option either in parliamentary, euro parliamentary elections, nor in local elections, nor has this been achieved, nor can it be achieved. It's hard to get 50% out, let alone 50% for. So it's a disabling. The Constitution is the most important legal act of the Republic of Croatia. And how important it is to show time spent on making these changes. So more time is spent on amending a company's rules, more time is spent changing the statutes of an agency, and also in the Assembly than on this amendment to the Constitution, and not talking about spending more time on the doctor's strike than on the amendment of the most important legal act. Isn't that a mockery of democracy? And you say it's a good solution. If the government does its job well, the need for a referendum will rarely arise. If the government strays from the path of the people, then the referendum is also one of the solutions to the correction, the correction of the government's work. Today's Croatia is not on the people's path, the disabling of the referendum is the disabling of the correction and return of the government from the foreign path to the people's path. And it's an intolerable urgency of this lawmaking and it's not a good solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63493	The replica corresponds to Dragan Chernoroac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63494	This solution is certainly better than it was. Your opinion, which you absolutely have the right to be worse than it is right now or perhaps before, but this is one safeguarder for the protection of certain rights, constitutional rights, fundamental constitutional rights. Yeah, well, you didn't bring it up now, but you're still talking about other referendums. What's the second percent to confirm, let me put it that way when we get to the referendum. The second thing, the number of signatures required for the referendum, i.e. to meet that condition, has been reduced. And I'd say that maybe when you say things like this that when the government doesn't work well, it's the only time that one of the roads pardons that citizens change that power or I'll fix some things, but I'd also say that, it's normal and you're right, but with the help of other political options. But I would only add there, so not those who are somehow in the ruling majority. But there is certainly something to be prescribed to ensure that these constitutional changes are adopted in order to preserve some of the fundamental provisions of the Constitution. And they shouldn't be discussed. And I'm sure you agree because there are some things that are now being discussed and even the launch of this issue, but not of Cyrillic but of the rights of all national minorities, I suppose there is no such support among all of us here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63495	We're continuing the club debate. It's the HNS club and the esteemed colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63496	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the HNS Club will support a draft proposal to change the Constitution, and all we had to say about it has been said for the past three months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63497	Thank you. It's the SDP club and the esteemed colleague of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63498	I'm gonna do some things for the SDP club anyway. Dear Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues of the SDP Club proposed the launch of the constitutional change procedure in the 7th month. Since then, but I'd say from before, so to this day, there's been a public debate on possible amendments to the Constitution. It was obvious in the first debate that there was both interest and need to proceed in the process of amending the Constitution and not only in the part from which the proposal came. The constitution doesn't often change, at least in our society it's not the case, so we were also open to all those who felt that they had something to say, suggest, suggest. The debate lasted in our opinion long enough to include everyone who had both their own interest and the need to propose, to express their opinion, to make suggestions and suggestions. After all, as never before, we all have the opportunity to see it from the material that has been delivered to us all. The proposals came from citizens themselves, from different associations, trade unions, professional public. Prof. Chular, Zakošek, Shalaj, Podolnjak, Bojanić, Prof. Baric these are all the eminent names from our professional public. Part of them took part in the committee's work in the thematic debate in the public debate. And everything that's been going on about these amendments to the Constitution, but everything has been under the watchful eye of the media and the general public as never before. Did it all last long enough? So I'll just say for a comparison of three years ago, the procedure for amending the Constitution began on 30.04.2010, and the amendments to the Constitution were adopted at the session of the Parliament on 16.06.2010, so for a month and a half, everyone agrees that they were then more comprehensive than they are proposing today. As a club, we took part in the work of a working group formed by a committee in which from the beginning to the end, and I particularly stress that from the beginning of the working group to the end of the working group, representatives of all clubs and HDZ participated. The discussions were contentive, long-term, often and semi-economy but mostly reasoned. The clubs all gave, so all the representatives of the clubs contributed, to every possible proposal that came before the work group started, during the working group's work, we have been debated and therefore regretted that, after all, HDZ decided at the very session of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and because their colleagues from the HDZ disagreed with the name of the draft amendments to the Constitution. I especially want to stress that and the truth is doing it. The most valuable thing we can all get from these working sessions is the fact that we are very different, ideological, political options, that we are still ready to talk, listen and respect each other. The result of all this is our debate today, and the greatest value we at the SDP club consider exactly that we have not all agreed together to attempt the ideological color of certain parts of the Constitution. As I said at the outset, the process of amending the Constitution has begun since the proposal for an amendment to Article 31. The constitution and, on behalf of the SDP club, I can say that we accept this in the draft proposed amendment in the sense of not obsolescence of the crimes of serious murders prescribed by a special law. So, we consider the already existing and any other interpretation to be at least unwitting. In fact, Article 31 of the first sentence has not changed, and he says no one can be punished for an act that was committed before it was established by law or international law as a criminal offence, nor can a sentence which was not imposed by law be imposed on him. Therefore, it is not right to distort what is written in the proposal for amendments in which it says that in Article 31. Article 4 The word prescribed by the law adds the words "criminals of serious murder" prescribed by a special law rather than that it will eventually be prescribed in the future. In addition, through the proposal to amend this article, we are opening up the possibility that criminal persecution for such acts can be taken even after the statute of limitations. So, in our opinion, but also in the opinion of the working group members and committees, all the serious murders are covered, and this is, in fact, despite the fact that the HDZ colleagues disagreed with this and what HDZ proposed. In fact, the common position in the end was that this was a broader formulation than we suggested, as is proposed today in the proposal to amend the Constitution. So this way Croatia opens up the possibility of processing such murders which may not have been processed in the past for these or those reasons. As we have witnessed in recent months attempts to reach the democratic standards of Croatia particularly when issues have already been reached and guaranteed the rights of different minority communities, we support at the SDP Club and in particular amendments to Article 83 that laws governing the rights of national minorities, issues important for the work of the Constitutional Law and the law governing the implementation of the Constitution, so we propose that we support this to be adopted under the procedure laid down for the amendments to the Constitution. We believe that this is in some way an additional and good fuse, which further strengthens what we have defined and developed as a society. I guess not only because of Europe, but also because we all wanted it together, and I guess we all want it today, so that we don't bring those standards down, but rather that we continue to develop and improve them. In this direction are also proposals for amending Article 87 which regulates the referendum issue. The biggest debate was expected on this issue. The proposals came from all sides for the reasons, in fact, and certainly because the debate on the change of the Constitution was followed by specific conditions, namely before, during and after the holding of a referendum which, on the one hand, pointed to the shortcomings of both constitutional provisions and on the other hand and existing legal solutions. He also showed us all how democracy and reached democratic standards are actually a very fragile plant and that it is obvious that the views of the actions that we together and not so many years ago have defined seem and are not so firm and sincere and that they are very easy to bow down to the desire for political points of individual stakeholders or political groups, and that is precisely on issues where, as a democratic society, we should not allow them. And we are witnessing as much as it can actually encourage some other groups in our society who seem to have woken up suddenly. This is after joining the EU, and now all that we have advocated and through the long process of EU accession we have brought ourselves, I guess now shouldn't be worth it, and they're trying to bring us all back together. We therefore welcome the amendments to Article 87, the primary determination of questions which cannot be changed by a referendum because the Constitution must be a guarantee of the preservation of the values which the representatives of the various calls of this Assembly have been instilling from the very beginning and, in that sense, eventually upgraded it. In addition, in his statement on the marriage referendum, the Constitutional Court stressed that some questions could be excluded from the referendum decision. We are not lonely in this, and some other countries have done so this year, for example. Slovenia, and that is precisely the issue in Croatia of those who are disfellowshipped, was also the most debate. What we are particularly emphasising on this article, which is that in the end we have agreed, accepted, let me thus express a kind of turning of practice in terms of when decisions have been made in the referendum in force. This proposal lays down the necessary quota of acceptance of a proposal. This proposal came out of the public, came from a series of associations and trade unions, and we finally accepted it by supporting and considering a legitimate and good proposal to introduce different quotas depending on what is at stake, or in some ways we tie the quotas to the required number of votes in the Assembly necessary for the adoption of certain laws. So is it the laws that require a two-thirds majority, the majority of all MPs or the ordinary majority? In this way, we are convinced at the SDP club that we encourage citizens to go out on a registered referendum, take responsibility and participate in decisions rather than ultimately make decisions by those who have decided for different reasons not to go out on a referendum. In this way, we believe that in the best way, equal treatment is given and changes, both directly and indirectly, in order to make decisions. Of course, what follows us is what we expect at the SDP club, which is that, in a legislative sense, the regulation of the referendum issue, because the past who has passed it, has agreed to disagree with the question that was raised here, shows all the shortcomings in the existing legislative framework and too many possibilities for different interpretations, and without clear and unequivocal procedures, we believe that democracy itself is at risk. All that I said and all those other amendments that this draft brings to the SDP club we support and invite everyone in the Croatian Parliament and those who so far refuse to reconsider the inclusion and achievement of consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63499	Thank you. Now we move on to replicas. First Davor Bozinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63500	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sobol, you said HDZ left the meeting of the Constitutional Committee but you didn't say the right reason. The real reason is that the Vice-President of the Committee asked to discuss the task force's report and was not even allowed to explain the reason. As I recall, the point was already listed as a debate on the draft amendments to the Constitution, and we didn't hear a joint working report which would be a normal procedure. The second thing I want to say is when you talk about this broad consultation of the public and this document mentions the Law on the right to access information and mentions Article 11(2). Mrs Sobol, in this article, 2 literally states that 30 days are the rule of discussion. We received 7 days for a public hearing and only after an intervention that involved constitutional court interventions extended for another 7 days. Read this Law on the right to access information, and there is a provision for you for 30 days. So from the beginning, there's been an impression here that the whole story wants to be speeded up somehow, that some deadlines need to be reached. It is likely that in a few weeks, we will find out what it is or will become clear to all. What I'm still interested in is that you come from the ruling coalition of the ruling coalition, what is your relationship to the remarks sent by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63501	The answer to the replica of Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63502	Thank you. I'm standing next to what I said. According to the interpretation and speech of the president or vice-president of the Committee of Col. Seks, the HDZ came out because it asked for the draft to be written that it was a draft working group, and not a proposal for a draft committee, so forgive me, and after that, he named his colleague, Pejo Grbina, the self-appointed chairman of the board and you left the committee's session. And I think it's important to say, and most important of all, that you participated in the work group's work from the minutes is exactly how, how, when you were present, I think everything is clearly explained enough. As for my position on the proposal of the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic said in one of the first sentences that it agrees with the fundamental provisions or the intensity of the amendment to this Constitution. He's the promoter, he's an authorised promoter but he's been through a public debate that lasted 15 days. What the law says in the rule of 30 days means no less. We had 7 days first, then we extended it to 7 days and all interested authorised or unauthorized during that period could really make all their remarks and they did. And we discussed all the remarks and any objections that came to the Committee on the Working Group, as well as the thematic debate. I'm sorry you weren't at the thematic debate, so you'd also hear some thoughts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63503	Next replica, Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63504	Dear Sobo, you're the ones who advocate disagreeing with these constitutional changes negatively qualified. And I repeat to you that the whole constitutional science, constitutional experts, professors of constitutional law departments including the President of the Republic, states that Article 3 of the amendment of the Constitution violates the fundamental provisions of the principle of rule of law because it is proposed that some future special law that does not yet exist and that there will be no knowledge of what will be prescribed offences that will retroactively be considered difficult killings. And that means that, from the political point of view of the constitution, criminal law is passed on by a very dangerous political volunteerism and the political one gives a bianko note in the form of a special law that represents a so-called constitutional law. an adjudicating clause at constitutional level that could become a very dangerous weapon for political reckonings, revenge or retribution. Because the parliamentary majority of the future government, the future government, can put new crimes into criminal law in any situation. It's a dangerous political adventure. And that is why the President of the Republic who specifically says that in these difficult murders referred to in paragraph 4 of this article are considered to be and is now left empty in consultation with experts. So see what the profession says and what the mandated Proposer says to change the Constitution of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63505	Replication response, Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63506	Thank you. Well, fellow Shakespeare, first of all, I should ask you what you've come to conclude that I am all those who disagree with these changes negatively characterized. I am nowhere in my debate on behalf of the club or in response to the replica of my colleague Bozinović, and I really don't know where you got it from. I think it can be said that everyone was right both by me and by SDP's club long enough to suggest, that their opinions, suggestions and suggestions. What will ultimately be adopted, not only depends on Sobol Gordana or the SDP club but depends on all those who participated in the work of the Working Group, or on the work of the Committee on the Constitution and came out with a proposal for these changes. I don't agree with that, and I don't know where you read it and where you read in Article 31 that there will be some future law that will prescribe the crimes of serious murders. Excuse me, Article 31 does not say or write in the Amendment to the Constitution. I don't really see it. I read here part of Article 31 that does not change with these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63507	New replica, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63508	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Sobol, I must say that today I expected Mr. Peja Grbin on behalf of the promoter, or that one of the representatives of the ruling coalition, when speaking on behalf of his clubs, will explain to all and to the Croatian public why the fifth constitutional changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia will take place in such a procedure, in such a procedure. That is why the ruling majority is quick to adopt constitutional changes, calling on and opening a public debate within 15 days. Under the Archduke Convention, any laws and sublegal acts which are adopted and which in any way affect environmental and nature protection must pass the procedure of a month. In the Republic of Croatia, we adopt the Law on Noise Protection and we open a public debate for a month, and here we bring a basic political and legal act of the Republic of Croatia or we change it, we change it more precisely, and therefore we prescribe a 15-day public hearing procedure so that this House or its Committee is warned by the Constitutional Court. But the fact that the HDZ Club is not for this kind of change in the Constitution is not because such a procedure or rather because it is a procedure but because, in much of these changes, we do not agree. Sometimes it is about the introduction of regions, and we do not want to say that we are a priority against regions but in this way we are not against regions and another important reason is that direct democracy and participation of citizens in decision-making in the Republic of Croatia are reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63509	Time. Use the time scheduled for replication. Answer, Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63510	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, we do not think that we are hasty and we do not see the reasons for the constant remarks that in the accelerated procedure we are bringing amendments to the Constitution and that we do not yet respect the procedure. I think all procedures, all procedures, were to be done according to the Constitution, according to the Rules of Procedure and done. The fact that it bothers you that the public debate lasted 15 days, tell me which public debate you had when you changed the Constitution in 2010 when after a month and a half we came to the amendment of the Constitution. Was there a public debate then, did we get to the bench records of all the working groups? Were we open to the media then? Did it happen in front of the cameras, in front of all the other media? It's not. Therefore, the debate on the need to amend the Constitution takes at least a year in Croatia. What's now in the last few months we've said has started with a proposal in July of this year, here is now half the 12th month, and we don't think anything has been accelerated, secretive or hidden from the public. I think we've achieved maximum transparency and that everyone who wanted to, wanted, could have gotten involved in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63511	A new replica, Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63512	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sobol, in your debate, you stressed that you particularly support the lack of restrictions, the reduction of human rights and the rights of national minorities. On the side now, the question to what extent are these procedures foreseen for the implementation of the referendum really going in this direction because probably one analysis and practice in the future if these changes are voted on will show that none of these referendums will be possible. But I want to ask you something else in that context. How can you be advocating that attitude and such a provision, while sticking to the Constitution of the limitations of the human rights of the majority people? So in Article 45, it is defined that Croatian citizens abroad can only vote in diplomatic and consular representations when it is clear that this is physically not feasible from America, Canada to Australia and that there can be voted that there, that only three representatives can be chosen by that basis, and you have provisions and you have made suggestions that questions, certain questions cannot go to a referendum and these are, or cannot be classified by the referendum in the Constitution and you have left this in the Constitution which is not a place if we are, which then must be logically consistent with these other provisions which are not subject to the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63513	The replica matches Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63514	So as far as I'm aware, this question that you are now opening has been arranged by the amendments to the Constitution in 2010. Right? And then HDZ was a majority party. So that question dates back to 2010. I don't have anything else to say to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63515	Replica Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63516	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, two things. First of all, I would like to remind the Constitution there sometime before the summer when the president of the SDP says a sentence has 8 weeks to understand 8 words in which the Constitution will change. It has changed a little since then, and all that has happened, unfortunately, has neither been democratic nor been made by the standards that one EU member state should apply in changing the constitution. You mentioned Mrs Sobol and the destruction of the rights and standards achieved after we entered the EU. And do you know when it started? This started three days before we joined the EU when you changed the law concerning the European Arrest Order. That's where you brought down the standards, that's where you brought down Croatia's credibility. We even met before the sanctions of the European Commission. Fortunately, you have withdrawn and changed that law, but it is not yet a finished story because I believe that these changes of the Constitution are being done exclusively to protect one man. And in the end, in your presentation, you've drawn everything out in bright colors, everything is excellent, there's no problem. You've also called for everyone to be involved in that consensus now. But that's out of reality. It didn't work out like that, you broke procedures, you didn't let those who were in 2010 to whom you called along with you change the Constitution. So now you're complaining about the 2010 procedure and you're involved in it. And SDP, along with HDZ, has changed the Constitution with everyone else. So these two procedures today and then they can't compare. And this whole procedure, you know what, this whole procedure actually reminds me of what he actually did, and the gentleman from the HNS Representatives Club performed this one geg, one joke. It all reminds you of what your prime minister would say about the BBC sketch. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63517	Replication response, Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63518	We certainly agree with Jandrokovic in something, which is that the procedure now and in 2010 definitely cannot be compared because this procedure, which we have implemented precisely according to established and business and constitutional provisions, is precisely through public debate. It took a few months for this debate to last. We've come to agree on a draft draft amendments to the Constitution. The fact that some think that we should have accepted all the suggestions and not accepted the arguments of everyone else that some of the suggestions they made were better than yours is now not our problem anymore than yours. I repeat once again what I said and in the debate, we believe that the proposed amendments to Article 31 have better regulated this issue compared to what HDZ has proposed. And I'm standing by it. And then there were colleagues and colleagues from all the other clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63519	A new replica of the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63520	Thank you very much. I think it's necessary because we've spent too little time so far in the discussion of the clarification of these very provisions on the calling of a referendum, so you fellow Sobol have mentioned, so these are questions that can't be called a referendum, Chapter II. and Chapter III. But I think that there is still a need to highlight and constantly highlight something that we have agreed on, so it cannot be called to questions relating to the restriction or reduction of human rights and fundamental freedoms. That's less to mention. We're saying you can't. So we could discuss these questions from Chapter II. and Chapter III. The Constitution shall call a referendum if it is a matter which would increase certain rights. As regards these provisions, also referred to in Article 6 above, that the referendum cannot be referred to questions relating to the adoption and implementation of the budget and the tax system, to defence and national security and concerning elections and appointments in the part-line of the Croatian Parliament. I think it is normal, because if a referendum could be called on these issues, or referendums, then we would absolutely and completely suspend the Croatian Parliament. So, on all of this, even the budget would be declared by citizens at the referendum, and the Croatian Parliament could be shut down and closed down.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63521	The answer to the replica of Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63522	Thank you. Comrade Kosor, I agree with you that we have clearly not all discussed together, but also these other questions that cannot be called a referendum. Perhaps I would just add that, that in one part of it would certainly mean the suspension of the Croatian Parliament. I think that in today's debate someone also mentioned their surprise, so now imagine limiting the referendum on the adoption, implementation of the budget and the tax system while forgetting that one country's budget is a security issue in one part. That's probably a part of my colleagues from your club would agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63523	Last line, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63524	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Sobol colleagues, namely these deadlines and haste, certainly speak and allude to the fact that there is a fundamental reason why they are in such a hurry. Because the Constitutional Court itself has argued that the procedure for amending the Constitution must not be bound by formal deadlines, that deadlines should not be at the expense of the fundamental values of a democratic society, and especially not at the expense of a broad consensus. So, you want to bring something before Christmas to start worth 1.01.2014, and it all explains that you want to reprotect whoever's suspected of a crime. It's probably the only rush that makes it so fast. Another thing I want to say, the referendum and the restriction of the referendum on certain things seems to me to be fundamental rights and that the referendum is the form of direct voter decision is one of the best things that could have happened to the Croatian state. And this successful marriage referendum has struck you and therefore you want to limit these rights and democratic statements since the second is the order that will surely be approved. However, what should remain for the referendum issue? Should we discuss or call a referendum to protect the birds of singers, to fuck on the street, to protect plant and animal species? Is that what we're going to decide with 60% of the date on the referendum? Tell me, do you think that the democratic right of citizens is not to say that this government is wrong if that is what the Croatian people want to say. Well, that should be in the referendum question possible. Yes, gather your signatures and go to the referendum and decide on that. Otherwise, you know how dictatorships go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63525	Time. Gordana Sobol, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63526	My colleague Djakic, then I suggest that you make a proposal for an amendment allowing the referendum to be discussed on issues relating to defence and national security, which concerns the choice of appointments in the Croatian Parliament's section, which concerns obligations arising from international contracts, including the Vatican. So suggest that then people can go ahead and call a referendum. The process of amending the Constitution, of course, you say cannot go to harm the fundamental values of society. That is why we are going to change the Constitution, so that these fundamental values of society do not collapse because of it. And that's the answer to your line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63527	Now we're moving on to an individual debate. The first person to come forward for that debate... Please don't argue. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Finish that conversation outside the assembly room. Now, let's let my colleague Bačić take his argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63528	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, the HDZ Club, through Mr. Seks and Mr. Mlakar's exposure, has given us essential reasons why we at the HDZ Club cannot support such changes to the Constitution. I will say what I said during the morning in my replicas that the reasons and procedural nature are because we hold that the Constitution and the amendments to the Constitution should be adopted in a better democratic procedure than this situation in which the change of the Constitution is brought. Namely, when it shares the Constitutional Court with the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system because it approaches the amendments to the Constitution in the way our Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system approaches, there is certainly something wrong. It is not possible to talk about a document that we call a holiday, whose adoption should be a holiday of democracy, whose adoption needs each of us MPs in the Croatian Parliament to make a privilege because many generations of MPs cannot even be in a position to bring or change the Constitution. I am simply surprised by the fact that, for example, the HNS club does not have such a large document as the Constitution and the democratic standards raised in the Republic of Croatia in these changes. Or that the constitution almost none of the ruling majority's representatives reported for debate. It seems to me, too, that almost none of the ruling majority's representatives participate in the debate on the adoption of the Constitution also speaks of the quality of the constitutional changes themselves that are being adopted. The more I believe that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the moment when it received comments from the President of the Republic should have stopped with these changes from respect and respect for the President of the Republic, whether or not the committee agreed with such changes should have stopped, the debate should have been opened following proposals which the President of the Republic, who is also a professor of criminal law at the University of Zagreb, had to stop this debate from being discussed with the President and to see how and how to approach the amendments to the Constitution. Unfortunately, it seems to me that the words that we listen to in public these days are actually confirmed to be quick to amend the Constitution in order to meet some deadlines attached to the European arrest warrant. Another reason why we cannot support it and why I personally cannot support such changes of the Constitution speak in fact that these amendments to the law we suspend democracy in Croatia, especially in that part that enables the direct participation of citizens in political and public life in Croatia. In my debate today, I told my colleague Lesar that this constitution was in effect at the time of the 2010 signing of a referendum on the Labour Law so that the referendum could not be implemented. Why? Because the implications of such a legal solution that would possibly be adopted in the referendum would also refer to the expenditure side of the state budget and such a proposal for constitutional changes prevents the resolution of the referendum in relation to the adoption of the budget and the tax system in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, such a referendum which was co-signed somewhere around me seems to me to be 700 thousand Croatian citizens would be impossible to implement it because such an amendment of the Constitution makes it impossible. So this is about the classic reduction of the rights of Croatian citizens when it comes to their ability to directly participate in political and public life in Croatia and such a change in the Constitution, which enables the Parliament to practically political elites to decide on important, important, political and social issues in Croatia and to suspend the same right of Croatian citizens. I would say who they fear of the people, as if they were afraid of their own citizens who chose them in the Croatian Parliament. I do not see what the valid reasons are that some questions in Croatia must be raised in a referendum for it to be worth reaching 50% of the total number of voters enrolled in the voter list for the referendum. This seems to me to be indeed a level that is almost impossible to achieve and thus some of the important issues that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia were able to make known in the referendum on them become immaterial. In addition, other provisions of Article 6 which speak of other laws and other issues which may be decided in the referendum in the Republic of Croatia in this way are significantly reduced rights as set out in Article 6. I said that in this way we through the Constitution are establishing a fictitious democracy because we really make it easier for citizens to open a referendum issue through the collection of 200 thousand voters' lists, but on the other hand, the Constitution prevents the possibility that in a referendum on anything important in the Republic of Croatia, the Constitution can be changed. Therefore, this certainly in the way Article 6 has been conceived in the referendum work significantly reduces and reduces the democratic reach of all those institutions that we could solve through the referendum. Furthermore, as far as regionalism is concerned, several groups of countries that have organised regional self-government have been defined through the council of the region, so there are federal states such as Germany, Austria and Belgium, there are regionalised unitary states such as Spain, Italy. There are countries decentralised and unitary such as the Netherlands and Sweden and there are highly centralised countries such as Ireland and Greece. We in Croatia seem to be somewhere in a system that is closest to Sweden or Ireland where this sub-regional self-government is not significantly developed or where regional self-government is not fully expressed. And now if the Republic of Croatia wants to strengthen the position of the regions in Croatia through the Constitution then we need first of all to know what kind of structure will be in Croatia, what will these regions look like? What are their powers, what is their business? What is the space that these regions include? What is their relationship to local self-government, what is their relationship to state administration? We don't know that, but we volunteer to enter the Constitution with the concept of the region and God knows what that region means. In doing so, the President of the Republic is absolutely right to say that in this way we are introducing three levels of local or regional self-government in Croatia. It is on the one hand the municipalities and cities, it is on the other side of the county and now the third level of the counties and regions. I agree that it could be entered with the region in the Constitution as a concept that defines regional self-government but then should have given a clear framework of what the region means. In this way, I do not know what parliamentary representatives will do when they vote on these amendments to the Constitution, which will be achieved in this vote when it comes to the region except that anyone who reads the Constitution will appear to have another sub-regional level in Croatia called the region which is not defined by the Constitution. Therefore, if there had been a normal debate, I believe that we would have included all those professional and scientific institutions in Croatia that would have had something to say about this, in this way that deadline was inappropriately shortened so that even in the entry into the debate on the Constitution, the President of the Republic was too late and already by speaking to us with his changes enough to tell us that the Parliament should well, well consider whether he would accept the amendments to the Constitution in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63529	Now there's a replica on this exhibit. They're all from the HDZ Club. The first one will be brought out by Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63530	Thank you. Dear counterpart Bačić, you have noted very well that the HNS Club in these constitutional changes could not say anything more than that on the board. Apparently, they made their part of the deal, the coalition agreement within the party and with their SDP coalition parties before, say, Labourists or others who support these constitutional changes. So we have recently received laws to vote on public procurement, which are as if written by the CNS ministries, so let's say the Laws on Spatial Planning, the construction for which the SDP representatives vote neatly, knowing that they are not good, and in the culture sector, that I don't speak what kind of legal proposals we get in the Croatian Parliament and neat colleagues and colleagues from the SDP support them. That's probably why HNS colleagues no longer have anything to say because they agreed to pass those laws, that SDP colleagues would vote it out and the more phytilite debate would now be discussed. That didn't occur to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63531	The replica matches Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63532	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, fellow Mesic, for reminding me here that such a relationship is between the ruling parties in Croatia and that in a certain way it has split before I can say so when it comes to certain government resolutions and then clearly that each other is going to meet. But what I still don't understand is what changed compared to July when the HNS Club said it wouldn't support the amendments to the Constitution. Here's what I'm interested in, I expected it to be today that the HNS Club might say, what is important in applying these amendments to the Constitution that today the HNS Club can be supported by this kind of change. And you're right, in the meantime, since July, there have been several laws, remember the Law on Theatres where the city of Varazdin has won the theatre, where the city of Dubrovnik has now gained antiquities, Dubrovnik antiquities, or walls, management of this very important segment of public life in Dubrovnik where there are no small coins over 50 million kunas, etc., etc. So in that context, it seems to me that accepting these constitutional changes by the CNS is quite understandable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63533	Second replica, Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63534	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to expand what my colleague Mesic has set up. It is obvious from all of this that not only is no one from the ruling coalition involved in the debates except on behalf of their clubs, as they said, but neither the other clubs, from Labourists, HDSSB and others, appeared in an individual debate. In other words, it shows, so one fact points to the conclusion that they do not need to discuss these things simply because it was all agreed before. And from there, the consequence is that we have this speed, this brief discussion on this subject and the clear thing of one thesis to achieve a consensus behind closed doors, and everyone who is against it is simply now being stegmatized in one way or another. And here you could actually ask one other question. What if the HDZ had the same thing only had its representative, on behalf of the club if someone had spoken, then these constitutional changes would have been brought in the fastest possible way, they would have been shorter debate than last night at 10 p.m. when we talked about the Criminal Law, so that it shows how much weight and importance this instant democracy and instant procedure means at all for the ruling furniture, but the question is, how are these or to what extent can be the basis for Croatia's political stability in the future?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63535	The replica corresponds to the representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63536	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So is fellow Tudjman, if this procedure is a change of constitution and otherwise everything that happens around these changes, the festival of democracy, then this democracy in Croatia is poor. We really expected that through a public debate all interested institutions in Croatia would participate, as well as Croatian citizens who could be involved in the adoption of these constitutional changes. If it were to do a survey in Croatia, how many citizens know what these constitutional changes are changing in the Constitution, I think they would be found out how few citizens even know what these constitutional changes are bringing. And by the way, no one, has a deadline that forces us to bring constitutional changes this quickly. I don't see why we're in such a hurry with constitutional changes when we're not bound by any deadline for their adoption. So why, then, that's the real question, then why didn't we conduct normal procedure, normal procedure when we passed the Constitution. This is the way to make certain doubts that we mentioned earlier, which we will see in a few weeks whether we are right or wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63537	Joseph Djakic will now present his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63538	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bačić, it is clear and there is no doubt that there is a rescue here on the scene of the arrest warrant. The European arrest warrant is prevented from being executed and now there are both legal and constitutional solutions to how to save and how to keep it in Croatia. For convictions made clear by the German authorities for what was formed on the murder of Djurjekovic, there must be something more to be said. But clearly what the Constitutional Court does not accept on stage is this speed, this expeditionivity, that there is a suspension of democracy more than it is visible. That it wants to protect this ruling nomenclature in the future so that no signatures can be collected for the referendum on early elections, for non-confidential authorities. So that no referendum on the ban on Cyrillics could be called until they are removed and all bodies of those killed in Vukovar and the surrounding area are explored and buried, until all criminals are prosecuted, then it is time for Cyrillics to heal all wounds when they are given enough piety and when human relations are further improved in Vukovar. All this says is that the suspension of democratic procedures and the inability of referendum issues that can hardly be successful when such a number is 50% should come out of those who are on the electoral lists that have never yet been detailed is certain to say that but I want to highlight the number of signatures collected for this referendum for a different definition of Cyrillic and use will surely have to be maintained because it is impossible to evaluate the previous collection of signatures under the new constitution. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63539	Is it something the Rules of Procedure means to you? You've been warned twice that you've timed out. Is that how you treat all the regulations or just this? Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63540	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Djakic, the HDZ club, had just given its changes to the constitution an elegant way out to SDP to deny doubts that these changes were being implemented to prevent extradition. In its changes, the HDZ Club proposed that such changes to the Constitution on the limitation of the crimes of serious murders do not apply to cases already issued by the European arrest warrant and which came to Croatia, but it is clear that the majority of the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure when Mr Shakespeare was due to present such a proposal to amend the Constitution by the HDZ Club could not open the debate. And that was why then the representatives of our club came out and no longer participated in the work of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Thus, there was a way to deny all of what you said but there was simply no political will, and this even more points to the doubts and doubts that are raised in the Croatian public, which speak of the real reasons for the adoption of such constitutional changes and at such speed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63541	And the last replica, the esteemed Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63542	Thank you very much. Mr. Bacic, you mentioned that you expected or expected that after the President of the Republic had made his remarks that the committee would stop and think about them a little bit, given that it was an authorised proposing. I think I hope it's not too late for that. Maybe the board will do it that way. There has been a lot of talk here about the late appearance of the president with his remarks, and I would remind you of what it says in the President's letter, so he writes to the President of the Parliament in a way that is reflected in the version of the draft that is available to him. And we therefore conclude that this Chamber or Committee on the Constitution did not find it appropriate to inform the President of the Republic at all as an authorised proposing and as an institution in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that procedures concerning the amendments to the Constitution are taking place in the Croatian Parliament, let alone ask him whether he had what and as President of the Republic and as an expert in the area which is partly covered by these constitutional changes, as well as to say. You really think that it is the civilization's reach for Parliament that such matters are not informed by the President of the Republic in the part concerning his powers at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63543	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have already asked my colleague, Seks, how and in what way will the Assembly and the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure deal with this proposal by the President of the Republic. If the Committee is not going to discuss these changes submitted by the President of the Republic, then I would say this is a failure to respect the institution of the President of the Republic of Croatia, who, within the appropriate time limit before the start of the debate in the Assembly, delivered his view of constitutional changes. If this disrespect really does occur, as it seems to me from this morning's debates and today's debates that will not really be discussed, then in January, since the President of the Republic is an authorised proposing expects another debate on these same amendments to the Constitution that we are discussing today. And wouldn't it be funny if I didn't say insanely, if this House discussed the proposal of the Constitution Committee and the Rules of Procedure next week to adopt such amendments to the Constitution, and then based on the proposals we received on the benches of the President of the Parliament, we are discussing these same changes in a month. I think that we will not be brought into such a situation because if we were brought into such a situation that within two months of the same almost identical changes to the Constitution we are discussing it would really delegate us and it would not be like you yourself said no civilization of a democratic state that is also a member of the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63545	We're continuing an individual debate. It's time for a respected colleague of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63546	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I believe that during today's day, the HDZ Club has further explained the reasons behind which it opposes the proposed changes to the Constitution. I will talk about only one part that refers to the announcement of a new possible regional reconstruction of Croatia because, as suggested behind the words of the county, the words of the region are added. In fact, the County of Međimurje adopted the Declaration on Regional Development and Unity of the Međimurje County on 28th last month, and I am truly sorry that none of my colleagues and colleagues from Međimurje County are present, but I am going to invite them to support this Declaration as well, which was invited by all those who brought the Declaration by consensus. So all the political parties, I will remind only, in the power of the Međimurje County is the HNS and SDP coalition, so HNS Mayor, SDP's president of the County Assembly, and equally all members of the assembly brought this declaration together. I will quote just something that reads, something of which is stated in the declaration which gives its opinion, initiatives and proposals to the competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia, and all in order for the Međimurje County to preserve its political subjectivity and local and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63547	Excuse me, colleague...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63548	Allow me, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63549	Just a minute. Stop the time, just a minute. I'd like to ask you most kindly because I have to do it, to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63550	I'll be back on the subject, yeah, that's about the subject. I don't know what's off topic. Mr. Vice President, I'm glad you're listening to me, but I'm on the subject. So that the Međimurje County preserves its independence in the Republic of Croatia, which is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. You have to be a little patient and let me finish the sentence so it'll be clearer. Therefore, the Međimurje County Assembly advocates the implementation of regional development policy in line with the autonomy of local and regional self-government units in line with the autonomy of local and regional self-government units guaranteed by the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. This document therefore wanted to speed up what or any announcements of the regional reconstruction of Croatia heading towards the Croatian Association of Croatian Countys in a region with a centre in the town of Varazdin, having nothing against the town of Varazdin, our neighbouring town, but also wanting to keep what Međimurje County has. What could happen if my colleagues voted for such a proposal, for example cities in Međimurje County could not have urban status because they do not have more than 35,000 inhabitants, and the holder of a strategy for urban development for the towns of Međimurje County would become the city of Varazdin. It is absolutely unacceptable for all those elected by the citizens of Međimurje County. So Međimurka and Međimurci voted with their will on 9 January 1919 to join the motherland and led by historical experience, geographical, economical, and, above all, democratic reasons, all council members of the County of Međimurska Assembly supported this declaration and announced, if necessary, if constitutional changes are made, that they will accordingly seek the opinion of the citizens of Međimurje. I once again invite all my colleagues from Međimurje County, we were elected by these same citizens not to agree to this proposal, to a possible regional structure, and this is not just about Međimurje County, it is about some other county, and not to agree to such a proposal by your colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Vice President, I think I've been on the subject and only in the end will I say that it is equally unacceptable for such a new proposal to enter the Constitution without a public debate. What we really need local and regional self-government, which actually means in the future, we don't have any parameters and no too many explanations why such an expression should be written in the new Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63551	I thank you, too. We've got two lines reported. First, dear colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63552	Thank you very much. Comrade Glavak, I respect the declaration of all political, emphasising political, power in Međimurje. You mentioned that they brought up the Declaration on the political subjectivity of Međimurje County, the autonomy of Međimurje County and independence, as if it were the state. Well, I guess Međimurje belonged to a state and a community 20 years ago to the creation of the Croatian state and the creation of Međimurje County. I guess the Međimurje County is part of Croatia. No autonomy, no independence, but part of the Croatian state, I believe. How will the Croatian state regulate its relations within Croatia? When we mentioned Slavonia and Baranja 7-8 years ago, your colleague from the club called us autonomists. You are now free to talk in this Croatian Parliament about the autonomy of the Međimurje County which is smaller than Slavonia and Baranja and five Slavonian County, you are talking about the independence of the Međimurje County. No one will abolish the Međimurje County, no one has said that the Međimurje County will be abolished but there were older ones, I don't know whether you know before and forms as communities etc., in which form it will be realized, how, it is a matter of talks and legal solutions that will follow the basis of a constitutional provision that will be introduced into the Constitution. So a year, two, three will be needed to fully handle the relations between the county and the region or even smaller units of local self-government. Will all 450 municipalities stay in Croatia or will be reduced to 100 municipalities we will see, we will agree, that is why we are here to talk. But I'm surprised you're even talking about it, and on the task force, you didn't want to talk about any of it. Now you've found a way to talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63553	The replica corresponds to a respected colleague of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63554	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Grubisic, I'm at the presentation of colleagues from your club this morning, I hope you heard that. Don't do this for narrowly selfish reasons. Take a look at Croatia as a whole and you can't say that Međimurje is not alone, for God's sake but what is it? So the Međimurje is on its own, and I think you're getting a little carried away in your statement. In addition, the declaration is called the Declaration on Regional Development and Unity of the Međimurje County. So, with the president's slight interruptions, you may not have caught the continuity of what I was telling you about. However, my colleague Grubisic how will you explain to my Međimurians that your Slavonia is more important than my Međimurje. Please, nice!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63555	Another replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63556	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues of the Sun, it's clear that this is a purely political trade, and I would say shamelessly where you want to put your hat on the whole Slavonia of those who are a little bit losing political power. The loss of political power is clearly demonstrated by the loss of both the city of Osijek as a center and the power it should be. By putting under control or shutting down the Virovitica-Podravska County which is your ultimate intention to this regional structure, you clearly state your goals and guidelines. Shut down both Brod-Posavina and Vukovar-Srijemska and Požica. Put everything in the big Slavic County of Osijek-Baranja. But you won't get away with it. And we will bring the declaration do not be afraid just as it was brought by Istria and Zadar and Dubrovnik and Međimurje County. We will also fence what it sounds like regional development, what a regional territorial structure Well, I can't look at it like this. [[Upadica Stazić: A colleague of Djakić you have signed up for the replica Sunni Glavak.]] So I'm talking to my colleague Glavak. [[/Intruder Stazic: You are speaking quite differently. So you're playing Rules of Procedure.]] Don't interrupt me, Mr. Vice President. So it's clear, it's clear what's going on. The necessary votes to change the Constitution and the definition in the Constitution that this is a regional structure have been bought by these vile intentions hidden in this political trade. It is clear that it will not pass no matter how much it stands in the Constitution. We will fight to the end against such an insane intent that can't live.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63557	Comrade Glavak, will you answer these accusations of insane intent? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63558	So if we have to continue this vivid colleague, Djakic, you've detected the problem in one way. I'd look back on the problem a few years ago. So, these selfish reasons, maybe it's not the best term I've mentioned. They are constantly being performed in the context that Slavonia and Baranja are poor. I just remind you of who's been in Slavonia and Baranja all those years on the government. So why didn't something be done as it was done in my midst to carry out the referendums, that people have all the legalized facilities, that we have arranged the garland, that we have irrigation, that we have sewers. So it's all in Međimurje more or less carried out by a referendum. So let's not always get out on that social note, then let's examine what those who were in power all those years might not have done enough so that this region wouldn't want to rise above others in this way. I agree that we must in no way strive to make those who are poor as poor as possible. Those who have less should be able to reach the level of those who have more, who are more developed. And therefore I do not agree once again with this space that opens up space for the regionalisation of Croatia in the end whether it means that some forms of direct decision will be abolished and you know as well as the control of the central state over local communities is just one of the instruments of influence, and that is the easiest thing for you to do when you have them under control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63559	Thank you. For an individual debate in order now comes dear colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63560	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We see how important the subject of amending the Constitution is because the vast majority of us remain in the assembly to discuss everything we were going to say. I'll talk about maybe those details I didn't mention when I spoke on behalf of the club. I would like to set two categories of applications that can be addressed to these amendments to the Constitution. One is the procedural nature, and the other is the metrics. And she spoke to a fellow Sobol member of our task force about how the task force worked. She made her impressions that I disagree with. And, however, the arguments why this working group did not have if you wanted the co-operation of colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community have already, in part, already been expressed by my colleagues Seks and Bozinović, who is a member of the board, and the two of us who were members of the working group tried to work in it for so long and to propose everything that we thought was important until the moment when we were completely prevented from making any proposals or comments, even those based on our regulations, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. I'm glad you're confirming Mrs. Sobol that I'm right because, unfortunately, it's the fact that we've given up further work in the task force. But it doesn't matter now, unfortunately, because the task force, and then the Constitution Committee, has spent its intention all the way. The result is what we have the opportunity to see today and what we have the opportunity to talk about. What is more, as regards the procedure which is not the opinion of the HDZ as an opposition in this House, but as is the opinion of the expert, scientific public, and I would say to the highest public that is the fact that it is a shameful change to bring the Constitution with a 15-day deadline of public debate. I'd say by force for 15 days because your basic idea was 7 days, however, pressed by criticism from those you trust a little more than you've decided to extend the internet, stressing the Internet debate, to 15 days. The Law on Cemeteries had, for example, a month's deadline for a public debate and it is quite fine that the Constitution as the most significant document of the state we bring to a public debate of 15 days. It's about the procedure. Other details, I won't even mention the breach of the Rules of Procedure. As far as the scale of things is concerned, why we disagree deeply with the proposed changes is that they are bad, inadequately written especially for the level of the highest legal act of a state. Thus, Article 2 amends Article 15 and has an impact on Article 83. The Constitution speaks of the fact that only one minority this time gives a special level of protection of the values of this Constitution to the national standard. But in this way, not because we only value national minorities better or more or more significantly than all other minorities is not the reason, the reason is to prevent the Constitutional Court from deciding on the legality of the constitutionality of the law governing issues of importance for national minorities. In doing so, those who fight so heartily for the protection of certain minorities were not so active when it came to protecting minorities by some other criteria. Minorities exist by racial criteria, religiously, if you want social and until we have one minority who also had rights under the Croatian Constitution. These are citizens of the Republic of Croatia with electoral rights which do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, who once had the right to be represented in this Parliament in proportion to their number in the list of voters or the register of voters as you now call it for this story is quite whatever. For that minority when you took her rights in 2010 and blackmailed her in making changes to the Constitution in 2010 you did not fight so hard to give her the rights you now foresee for the minorities you view as national. But what's the problem, it's not just those national minorities or citizens of the Republic of Croatia who don't have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. The problem is that you are violating the basic foundations of the Croatian Constitution and destroying what has been achieved by the state's development, which is the civil state as defined by our Constitution. If a minority gets the importance of a constitutional category that cannot be questioned by the Constitutional Court of Law that is governed by it, you violate the principles of the civil state and of all citizens who are equal before the law, if you want that political people to say so in theoretical debates. The other thing we're opposed to is what you've introduced as a change in the referendum issues. On the one hand, and the only question that should have been settled is the matter of a referendum in these amendments to the Constitution but not in this way and not in such detail because some of these details that you have proposed are not the contents of the Constitution but should be the content of the ordinary to say so in the referendum law. These issues are regulated by law, not by the Constitution. But speaking of this, I will tell you that you have banned citizens who have the right to direct democracy except that you have given them the opportunity to initiate a referendum with 200 thousand signatures, with this proposal of the Constitution, that certain issues are being declared in the referendum, so that there are issues that can be carried out in a referendum relating to the adoption and implementation of the budget and tax system. I can imagine very easily that the largest number of questions that could be asked will fall under this category, so it will be impossible for citizens to decide on them at the referendum at all. And that's not all. There's another better fence. A referendum cannot be called on either those issues relating to the restriction or reduction of human rights and fundamental freedoms contained in Chapters 2 and 3. The Constitution. Our constitution doesn't normally know the heads, but we've been able to decrypt what you meant. These are articles 1 through 70. The Constitution. So I'll just read you article 70 for an illustration. "Everyone has the right to a healthy life. The state provides conditions for a healthy environment. Everyone is obliged as part of their powers and activities to pay particular attention to protecting the health of people, nature and the human environment." If environmental issues aren't issues that citizens should decide on in a referendum, then I really can't imagine what you've left for the citizens to decide on in the referendum. On the composition of the Parliament, on the State Judicial Council, the Constitutional Court, on the powers of the President of the Republic? All of this is important in these first 70 articles of the law, but this broadly calls for abuse that any question that would be raised as a referendum may fall because this law or the Constitution excludes the possibility of calling a referendum. And finally what's been said a long time ago, regional division that except for local self-government, municipalities and cities that we all say we have too many, the county as a unit of regional administration, now we have a new unit of regional administration called the region, it's sorry beyond any sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63561	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first one came to Josip Boric, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63562	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Mlakar, you spoke about the procedure in your debate, and today the spear was broken just about whether it was under-recorded, not, the SDP says that, more or less, the clubs that support the amendments to the Constitution have adapted. But we're coming up with a morbid situation. No matter what is said, regardless of all proposals, and the proposals of the president of the Republic of Croatia, the decision on constitutional changes, and we heard today, will be made by the main board of the HDSB. Can you understand that in what context and what constitutional change we are talking about? If the HDSSB's main board says this isn't good, constitutional changes are gone. We've wasted all this time. If they say this is good, then constitutional changes are there. What are we getting together on? Why the Parliament, why the parliamentary representatives, who the president, what? The HDSSB's main board is making a decision on constitutional changes and tomorrow we have a Constitution. If it wasn't and I don't know what to say, if it wasn't absurd, it would be funny, if it wasn't sad, this is for the poster.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63563	Now this is how we've reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Boro Grubisic, who's been injured and in what?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63564	Mr. Vice-President, I think this is an article 238 where Mr. Boric represents it and corresponds with a replica of Mr. Mlakar and the text of his replica has nothing to do with the debate of Mr. Mlakar, who did not mention in any word the HDSSB.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63565	My colleague Grubisic, he is, he is injured by the Rules of Procedure, yes, you have hurt him, that because you abuse the board of damage to the Rules of Procedure and you know that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure to answer to someone just because you don't like what he said, only because of it. Please. Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63566	There you go, Mr. Vice President. I understand my colleague Grubisic, don't take it regardless of the injury or the injury we understood his reaction but he may at least like the reply to the replica. Thank God, fellow Boric, that the amendments to the Constitution depend on the main board of the HDSSB. I'd be much more afraid that the change of the Constitution is in the hands of another main committee or I don't know what all the top bodies of our political parties are called. The HDSSB unfortunately, we thought it would share more of this opinion on these proposed changes with what it thinks about these changes and HDZ. Unfortunately, here is the team probably working group, and I'm sure just at the time when my colleague Shakespeare and I didn't participate there, something important happened that the HDSSB at least in part changed its rhetoric or thinking and took the view of the majority of the working group that it should support these constitutional changes. But maybe the light is at the end of the tunnel, the fact that we're waiting for a session of the board. I hope he can surprise us and those who count that constitutional changes have already been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63567	The next replica, counterpart Boro Grubisic, is now given the opportunity to say what he wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63568	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The light in the tunnel is your president who said that a referendum in this form in connection with the Cyrillic in Vukovar is not necessary and you here command and claim that in your debate that such a constitutional decision on the referendum will disable such a referendum. Well, your president said the referendum was unnecessary. Hello? Where are you? Where do you live, Mr. Mlakar? Yeah, he said there was no need for that the other day, and today he's not here when such important matter is being discussed he's not here, right? Therefore, do not deform the Croatian public and the main board of the HDSSB and the HDSSB in its action has shown you in the past term and contributed most to your fall, and you have contributed to yourself only because the HDSSB has revealed it and will expose you further as they do if they swindle and cheat on these on the left as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63569	The replica matches Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63570	So now I understand when you say hello and I should say hello. Do I hear from you? Unlike you, my colleague Grubisic, I do not expect the main committee to respond to this, but I am not authorized to interpret what the president of my party says. But I do know that what he was saying about the referendum concerns the legitimate conduct of the Croatian government and I know that he said it. And the second question is, today we heard Mr. Lesar who's confused with the media. The second question is, how did the media transfer it? And he said, I'm going to try to make you understand that we are opposed to changes in laws where they are not necessary, and amendments to the Constitutional Law on minority rights are not necessary if it is consistently, precisely and fully applied. In order to be consistent and fully applied, one who applies it cannot read only Article 12, forgetting that this law has more than 30 articles, and that Article 8 states that a right is exercised under certain conditions and that the provisions of that and all other laws must be interpreted, cannot, should not, should not, be interpreted in a way to ensure that the lives of both the majority and members of a national minority of a particular unit of local self-government. If that's not what the president said, it's a shame he didn't, but I believe that because I heard some of his statements and read that he had just warned all those from the government who were always running away from applying the Constitutional Law in their entirety, that article 8 in which it wrote it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63571	New replica, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63572	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here, I'll be as brief as possible. Since 1990, Article 83 of the Constitution, the laws relating to the rights of national minorities have been passed by a two-thirds majority. So there's no newspaper about the majority. The paper is only that if we want something to be called the Constitutional Law, then we have to bring it by procedure for amending the Constitution, and this, in the follow-up of this article, we allow these changes to protect other minorities in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63573	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63574	Thank you, colleague Grbin, for teaching me again, although everything you have stated, for example, about the validity of the referendum with me, is a constant concern that you may not interpret the most accurate laws. What the article 83 states is that organic laws and constitutional laws are passed by a two-thirds majority to us at no time has been disputed. But what doesn't say, and you are now proposing that the constitutional laws, of course, didn't count them all, you forgot the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with The Hague Court, you forgot the Constitutional Law on the temporary prevention of the President of the Republic to carry out his duties. You have proposed that constitutional laws be adopted in accordance with the procedure for amending the Constitution, thereby avoiding the control of the Constitutional Court and that is the most dangerous thing in your proposal. And not only that, you have suggested even that the Parliament can decide that other laws get that same quality, if you want, that other laws be passed by procedure for amendments to the Constitution. And while you forgot that you also have a provision on organic laws that is contrary to this desire, it will seem to you that the ordinary laws for which you will make such a decision are above the organic ones. It just shows that you couldn't write the first proposal, and unfortunately, you couldn't write the one that's in front of us now. One solution worse than the other. That's what I've been talking about and I believe everyone thinks the Constitution has earned a special place in the legal system as a fundamental act.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63575	Next replica, vice president of the House, Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63576	Thank you, Vice President. Namely, my colleague, Llakar, in your presentation of the last sentence concerning the regions, I don't see a problem, which is a slow one. I believe that the HDZ that led most of Croatia's journey to Europe is also very well known, and then it was talked about the regions. Also, regions in the Regional Development Act that have brought to the vast majority of HDZ governments and this House are also mentioned in the regions. What may be confusing in this context, and it also confused my colleague Glavak. The proposal for a draft Regional Development Act is in the public debate where the frameworks of individual regions are defined. However, the law itself, and in the very presentation of this law, the draft law on regional development, was meant to mean the ability of more counties that would be united in the regions, that they could also quality and quantitatively monitor certain projects that could run towards EU funds. So, a model of a new NUTS 2 region is being created, which does not mean it does not rule out, and also by the Constitution, the draft changes to the Constitution, means that instead of regional ones, regional counties and regions are written. So I don't see what it would be slow to give opportunities through the constitutional category, the future of Croatia to be organised in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63577	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63578	Well, here's the esteemed vice president, if it'll satisfy your curiosity, I'll be happy to explain. On page 9 of the Constitutional amendments, there is an explanation of the applicants who say that they will edit the way of work of the Croatian Parliament as best as possible and that the amendments to the provisions on local and regional self-government allow for the establishment of a precondition for the creation of a legislative framework for decentralisation and regionalisation of the Republic of Croatia. This is how changes are made as a new unit is now proposed regionally because they are no longer called regional self-government, they will become a region, so the Republic of Croatia will have local self-government, local self-government, and cities for which many people, and I would say even a large part of the Croatian public think they are too numerous. After them you have counties as special units of regional or regional self-government and now you come regions as new units. Regions can be political, statistical, cultural, and I don't know how many forms of theoretically elaborated I think 6 have a kind of region, but it doesn't say in our Constitution which of these would be this region. If it is political, parliament, government, its legislative original powers and everything that it means is under the political region, it writes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63579	The last replica is Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63580	Dear counterpart Mlakar, you have explained well in your speech the situation concerning constitutional changes, but I do not understand how this occurred to you that you expect that Croatian citizens will probably be the largest number of questions they wish to make in the referendum to be related to the financing budget, to the economy, to the unemployed, to what you have cited as an example of which they will not be able to decide in the referendum. You have probably come here in a Parliament in the Croatian Parliament to notice that these fences are no longer moving on Mark's square. They stand here day and day. Every day someone protestes, every day people have something to say about these very topics that you said they won't be able to decide on in a referendum so that the fences don't even get away anymore. It used to be once a month, once every three weeks, and today we almost have a situation to take notice of people being able to protest and exactly about this colleague, Mlakar, you're saying that people will eventually not be able to ask to speak... so I don't know why you pointed it out that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63581	The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63582	Fellow Mesic, of course, that this process of amending the Constitution is quite funny but with far-reaching tragic and serious consequences. What I thought there were some good indications in this proposal, the citizens will be able to decide on the Croatian Parliament, the Government, but the composition, the detour and the way of work, as well as the President of the Republic. I'm only afraid of the results if we call such a referendum. And I think that all of this has just raised the reputation of Parliament that he enjoys in his people today. And that's why these fences are. It's not about those 1500 who can protest, I believe they're prepared to move a little closer to the government so they can't leave the building at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63583	Now it's Vladimir Shakespeare's turn for an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63584	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The question you had made more sense for this debate because interest has obviously reached exciting proportions. I would say a little more about how these constitutional changes have gone past and have gone extremely unfortunate and extremely clumsy with one systematic violation of all the procedural rules relating to the amendments to the Constitution. It started out really unhappy and clumsy. On 11 July this year, part of the SDP club's representative submitted a proposal to the president of the Croatian Parliament to approach the amendment of the Constitution with a draft proposal for a change of constitution. That's what the members of the Constitutional Committee get sometime in the afternoon, I think the second day is already a session of the Committee on the Constitution, on the second or third day, so that's the day, two before the summer break of the Parliament. The Committee on the Constitution does not take a decision on the proposal to approach the amendment of the Constitution because most of the rest is actually unresolved because the representative of the HNS Committee, Mr Goran Beus Richembergh, Mr Milorad Pupovac disagrees with the fact that the change of the Constitution is made to obsess over murders politically motivated and believes that this should be regulated by the Penal Code. And that's where it stops. At the end of September, the procedure for amending the Constitution is renewed once again. The government is sending its second proposal, proposing that the valleys become obsolete for the difficult killings that will be prescribed by law. And now, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and now the sea of trouble begins. The chairman of the board, Mr. Peja Grbin, obviously has the task he received from the prime minister who said it very precisely and clearly to speed up and put in all five speeds how many of them he has to put in the process of changing the Constitution. Now it's already coming into conflict with outside board members with Professor Smerdel, for example. Because Mr. Chairman of the Constitutional Committee runs a committee session as if it were a plenary session of the Parliament. The truth in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament states that the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on the session of the Assembly are applicable in an appropriate manner if there is no Rules of Procedure on the work of the working body. But Mr. Board President, it is appropriately interpreted as being strictly held at the plenary session of the Assembly by the Committee on the Constitution. Okay. And there's already some pretty big sparks. After that, at the plenary session of the Assembly there is a debate on the proposal for a change of the Constitution where I insist on proving that it is not acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and that the Constitution Committee, which is only responsible for preparing proposals for the relevant acts in the procedure for change. So the Constitutional Committee should have prepared a proposal for a decision to approach the amendment of the Constitution and there was already one conflict at the plenary session of the Parliament. The club of HDZ representatives sends the president of the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a decision to approach the amendment of the Constitution with the draft amendment of the Constitution on 18 October 2013. The President of the Parliament shall include it in the agenda of the Assembly's session. And today under item 27 of the agenda there is a proposal for a decision to join the amendment of the Constitution with the draft amendment of the Constitution. And what happened in the meantime? We discussed today the draft amendment of the Constitution, and with this proposal by the HDZ Club of Representatives, therefore the mandated motions, 1/5 MPs have proposed to approach the amendment of the Constitution. There isn't. And what happens now, what happens now, is it just going to stay somewhere replaced by the wind? At the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution of an Event, I, as a member of the Committee and Vice-President of the Committee on behalf of the HDZ Club, who proposed these amendments to the Constitution, propose to place on the agenda of the Committee's session and discuss the proposal of the HDZ Club to approach the amendment of the Constitution in the part relating to the non-exhaustion of the crimes of the killings committed during the communist rule. Mr. Chairman of the Pedja Grbin Committee opposes this proposal, puts it to the vote, and 6 votes reject the HDZ Representatives' Club's proposal to discuss the proposal of the HDZ Club to approach the amendment of the Constitution and to this day it has not been done. It's something beyond reason, beyond limits, beyond all possible standards. I hope he doesn't do the same thing to the President-in-Office's proposal to simply put him on an ad act. If those who are authorised to amend the Constitution 1/5 MPs, if their right to propose a change to the Constitution and the duty of the committee in question to discuss at its session and even get even more off the agenda, refuses to put it on the agenda, then that shows that every criterion, any correctness, is lost. The only person responsible for this is the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, Mr. Peja Grbin. What his motives were for you to do at such an accelerated pace, skipping all the steps foreseen by one good democratic procedure, he knows best about himself. And on the other hand, you accused HDZ of obstructing participation and working on constitutional changes. So in order for one club, it does not have to be about the HDZ Club, any other club, so that members of one Constitutional Committee would participate in the work if they were allowed to discuss only the proposals and initiatives of all others, including those not authorised by the motions of the Constitution, and only this would the right be denied by the Club of Representatives of a Party who is authorised to submit proposals for the change of the Constitution. And now we are really in a situation where neither the plenary session nor the committee discussed only the first phase of the decision to approach the amendment of the Constitution and will likely not be done in the future. Thus, this amendment will pass in such a way as to completely eliminate and bypass the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club to approach the amendment of the Constitution with a draft amendment of the Constitution. You've already experienced enough...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63585	It's time, fellow Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63586	Which means when anger hits you in public with you. You'll see how it goes...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63587	Thank you. We'll move on to replicas. ... First call from my colleague Davorin Mlakar, here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Shex, here will be through the replicas of opportunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63588	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Shakespeare, I had to report to you in this replica because your factography that you've presented is not entirely accurate. Constitutional changes did not begin with the proposal of part of the MPs or all SDP representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The amendments to the Constitution began with the shame afforded to us by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by playing the commitments made internationally, by playing their obligations towards the European arrest warrant by passing the Law on judicial co-operation which caused us to suffer decent shame within the European countries. And then the message of the following content arrived. Now we're sending a motion to amend the Constitution. A wild animal hunter reportedly. We are now sending a proposal to amend the Constitution so that political killings do not become obsolete. At these trials, none of us will be a witness, and on the other hand there will be mass. When some people in HDZ and church are ready to go so far I'm willing to go further. You're pushing the fox, you're going to drive King Kong away. I've already said we've driven out no King Kong, but quite some other form but it was a motive for changing the Constitution and precisely because of this motive and this way completely, completely unnecessary change.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63589	Thank you. Next line, Jasen Mesic. Well, my colleague Shakespeare didn't react.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63590	Dear fellow Shex, you have beautifully listed the chronology of all these actions regarding these constitutional changes, you have beautifully listed the arguments from your rich experience regarding the adoption of the Constitution, amendments and additions to the Constitution in the Republic of Croatia. But isn't it strange to you that not a single proposal, that not a single argument from the ruling majority gets any understanding and no support? Just remember in 2010 how the ruling HDZ then respected opposition proposals and how it was approached by agreements between political parties in the Croatian Parliament to bring amendments to the Constitution for the benefit of all Croatian citizens of the Republic of Croatia. These times are obviously behind us, probably the time of some political, intolerance, some political darkness. How do we compare that to this now?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63591	We have an answer. Comrade Shakespeare, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63592	To see, in 2010 some today tried to show through the debate that these discussions on the change of the Constitution were held in a way that was hidden from the public, that some records were hidden which some had not received. So these were the most democratic changes to the Constitution that have been made since the 1990s. Countless meetings of the Committee on the Constitution, countless working groups, specialised working groups, included all segments of civil society, NGOs, all of the departments of all constitutional law professors. So one immeasurable pro-pulsive life was through these constitutional changes. Agreements, consultations between all parties. This resulted in one compromise, so that these constitutional changes were made for both EU accession and others to be brought practically by consensus. And this why none of our motions for change are accepted, I'm not an expert in surprise, that's what my colleague Mlakar said was A.B. Simic, constitutional experts and lawyers are not poets who marvel at the world. These are others who claim to be surprised by constitutional and legal innovations.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63593	Thank you. Josip Djakic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63594	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Honorable Shakespeare, you've well noticed that it's impossible to discuss matters as important as on boards, so many times in this House. There is another request addressed, which is in 58 places to discuss this Cyrillic in Vukovar whether or not with delay or without delay. And it is also removed from the agenda of the Veterans Committee and cannot be debated. In the Croatian Parliament is the 58th point, and important events culminated, the man who faces the board today is in a coma, the policeman is not suspended. The events go on with such a process, the defenders of the statue, it is worth Croatia from dissatisfaction and there is no debate. Where there is no debate, where there is a ban on democratic appearance and crossing facts, things and awareness that things are solved in the best democratic way such as this referendum is created by people's general movements as they were in the 1990s. That is how the Staff was created because of the lack of understanding and non-application in accordance with Article 8. Constitutional law. Today's ban on you and the committee to discuss important issues and HDZ proposals as well as us on the Veterans Committee to discuss the law and the proposal that would be most competent to calm the situation is impossible to maintain. So we warn that when processes, discussions, cross-referencing opinions... [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63595	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Comrade Djakic, time. Comrade Shakespeare, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63596	Thank you very much. My colleague Djakic can't answer that question why some things that are on the agenda move for months and months and put under the rug and never come to the debate. It's not the only suggestion of these conclusions you've mentioned. It's about a traffic connection that's connected to the Peljega Bridge, HRT, it's a series of whole topics that are being put in order when grapes are born on vervain, so never. [[Intruder: HRT report.]] And what's the reason for that? A common denominator can be one, it's fear of the public, fear of the people. That's the only reason, fear of facing facts. This is the only possible answer to your question, which you ask why certain things are being rejected, as on the War Veterans Committee, the same is being removed from the agenda for these conclusions concerning the situation in Vukovar. Let those who have power and authority answer that question not to be debated on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63597	Thank you. And Davor Bozinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63598	Thank you. Mr. Shakespeare, you have briefly raised the question of whether this debate makes any more sense and whether it's exciting. I think that exactly the way you've brought out the chronology of all of this that's been going on shows that it's an exciting dynamic, I'd say that things are going on at the speed of action film, though low budget film, because at that rate, a lot of things have been lost. The public is lost, constitutional and legal experts are lost, and as we can see in the tense finale, the President of the Republic has joined with his remarks. His remarks are also serious, concrete, inclusive and I would ask you here one thing we haven't talked about, which is the President's objection regarding the adoption of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitutional Law is scheduled to be adopted within 3 months, however, the doubt concerns whether the amendment to the Constitution will be possible at all without the Constitutional Law and of course there is a question whether a sufficient number of votes will be collected for the Constitutional Law. So the question is how will you find the answer given your experience in all of this, how do you implement this Constitution even if you find enough votes to adopt these changes?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63599	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Shakespeare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63600	A great philosopher Martin Heidegger said a remarkable thought "The experience teaches us that experience teaches us nothing." So this experience here that we have won't, at least some of us, teach us anything, maybe teach us something. But the wolf changes his hair, and the temper never changes. The constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution, first in the proposal to be six months, is now put into motion for 3 months. And this Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Constitution is adopted as a result of the fact that certain provisions of the Constitution cannot be applied directly and that the Constitutional Law should be adopted laying down the indirect application of certain provisions of the Constitution. However, you can see now that this provision of Article 31 on the non-exhaustion of the crimes of serious murders prescribed by the law, so it will not be possible to apply it even on the ground that it will enter into force in 1.01.2014, nor will it be possible to apply what applies to the depreciation of the crimes of the killings of serious murders committed with special regulations. They won't be able to apply because they have to, they're just going to have to pass laws that will determine what crimes of serious murder are. And there is the whole game revolves around it and it all comes down to the fact that the legal order of the Republic of Croatia obligations that the Croatian government and which Croatia took over when joining the EU is to play lex Perkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63601	Time, thank you. Next for individual debate, Jasen Mesic. Here's my colleague Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63602	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I was thinking maybe I should give up this debate, but since I am motivated by the extraordinary attention of the members and members of the ruling coalition here in this Croatian assembly, I still decided to make a contribution, to this debate, so that in this sense I cannot give up what I wanted to say. I am sure that every argument and concrete evidence that we present in this debate will certainly mention here several times the colleague of Peja Grbin with the most extensive circle of her associates certainly accepts. I'm going to read you something to start with as one of the Light Motives of this exposure that I wanted to tell you. These constitutional changes are an expression of a high degree of political maturity and state responsibility of the Croatian Parliament, all its constituents, particularly parliamentary political parties of the ruling coalition and opposition, by a consensus that has also adopted amendments to the Constitution. Furthermore, we owe our special gratitude to the participants of the public debate on the change of the Constitution to professors from the Constitutional Law Department of the University of Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka, numerous constitutional and legal experts and civil society associations. Croatian citizens through round tables and specialized forms of public debate and media protest have given significant constructive, critical pain in adopting these constitutional changes. Someone could think at first glance that this refers to the fifth amendments to the Croatian Constitution, now it is 2013 but not. It is, of course, the 2010 amendments to the Constitution where all this has been implemented, and I particularly point to the full parliamentary and political parties of the ruling coalition and the opposition to the consensus which has been adopted by the amendments to the Constitution. It was obviously at a time of political darkness, political intolerance, the terror of the majority as it could be said, apart from the interest of Croatian citizens, one wonders who wrote it then and how it somehow entered the preface of the Croatian Constitution in 2010. Now take this and what is happening to us today, colleagues and colleagues, where we have amendments and additions to the Constitution announced in June 2013 that one programtic would not say with a speech but rather by the quote of the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic, and his instructions to coalition partners that they had eight weeks to understand eight things, it took them a little longer but they understood eight words. So we definitely see that we are definitely both in the Croatian Parliament and in the way we manage this country backwards. But let me remind you of one more thing. When amendments to the Constitution were made in 2010, it was the fact that changes were made that would allow Croatia to enter the EU community, to become really what has long been written in political programmes and HDZ and the Republic of Croatia, and we can say so by other parties. Today we are not working to create a political consensus why? Because these amendments to the Constitution deny these European values that we have propagated with the 2010 amendments. And we deny it because these amendments and additions to the Constitution are only started to remove or prevent extradition in accordance with the European arrest warrant. Now, if the ruling one doesn't trust us. Then the question arises why does he not suffer or object to the President of the Republic, of course why does he not suffer the objections of the President of the Constitutional Court? Because what has been objected to is being circled as a front for this reason to suffer or if the president's proposals or the President of the Administrative Court's proposals were really discussed then he, then I would really stay only on this provision, which is why all these amendments to the Constitution have been initiated. That's why we don't discuss it. That's why you don't even hear about it. Because it doesn't matter. Because all these things that are being introduced both in regionalization and in terms of changes related to the referendum are just a clean cover, a smoke bomb, or like our people say, the dune ink to cover up the real stuff. And, of course, when both the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Rights experts point out to them, of course they will not discuss it because behind any too much debate, it will be understood that it is just a sippy ink. Therefore, there is no benefit for these constitutionalists, not for the constituents listed like this, so I am back in 2010 where the President of the Republic of Croatia has given significant support in the work of constitutional changes relating to the rule of law, the constitutional founder, here he does not think of fellow Pejo Grbin but is referring to the Croatian Parliament, the amendments to the Constitution have determined that they are benefiting the Croatian state and its citizens. You know, one film says like this, that nostalgia is actually a positive feeling because it always brings you back to youth. But the fact is, colleagues and colleagues, I'm afraid we'll be very nostalgic about the 2010 Constitution changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63603	Thank you, too. This was a poetic ending. Now we can move on to replicas, Branko Box, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63604	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Mesic, inspired by your inspired debate, came up with an idea. So in my hometown, all people deal with the exploitation of the Bankstone, and to deal with exploitation, you need to have a hack or a cap, a mall, a strong muscle and a wedge, so those four elements you have to have. And in order to deal legally with the exploitation of 24 months, it is minimally necessary to produce all the necessary documentation, and one of the last documents is an environmental impact study. And the public debate you were talking about, the environmental impact study takes 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63605	Thank you. So you weren't talking about stonemaking? Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63606	That's right, fellow Box, I wasn't talking about rock extraction, but you're absolutely right. So the rulings are really much more difficult to deal with and much easier to access to the amendments to the main legal document of a Republic than the process of extracting stone panels. This is only proof that these constitutional changes are also brought not to the end of what I read in the 2010 quote, but with the aim of clear political and party interests, which were also warned by highly positioned judges in the Republic of Croatia. But there's still no result. That's the fellow box that worries the most, that you have no one to show your arguments to. And so it's not just in the case of the Constitution, it's in all economic laws, so in all the laws relating to finance, in all the laws relating to science, protest and culture, in all the laws of environmental building and everything else, in everything that you're trying to show that it's not good, that suggestion is not accepted. And then individuals wonder at the radicalization of the political scene. They wonder why St. John's Square is. Marks every day full of dissatisfied citizens on various issues and wonders why the Republic is going in the direction it's going.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63607	Next replica Davor Bozinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63608	My colleague Mesic, between what you read and rightly reminded us from this booklet on the 2010 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and what we heard from the promoter and from the majority party club in the coalition, there is not much difference except in the facts. So now we don't have a president of the Republic who made his contribution, but in the finals he managed to send his remarks to the Parliament, we don't have round tables around Croatia, we don't have constitutional experts with departments in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Osijek, and in fact this is all going very badly. As a former culture minister, you've probably heard, read one of Theodore Seuss's works, it's one of the children's writers who says, "Don't cry because it's over, laugh because it happened." Of course, we can't laugh at all this because this is all bad happening to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63609	Thank you. My colleague Mesic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63610	Dear colleague, I said here and now in response to the replica of fellow Box how important it is when someone wants to hear you in the debates and hear your arguments. What Mr. Shakespeare was saying was that the HDZ proposals on the board did not want to be discussed or discussed and that they were simply too loud and that they were removed from the agenda. If you take, figuratively, a colleague of the Mlakar as one extreme and fellow Pejo Grbin as another extreme, then what we read as a quote should just be a constitutional compromise that can be reached by a political consensus based on arguments. But it was obviously not in the interest of the rulings. And I remind you, as former minister, that you remember the situation we had in 2010 and how much we cared about having a political consensus on European values. Today, it obviously does not matter to colleagues and colleagues in the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63611	Davorin's Mlakar, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63612	Thank you very much. Looks like the SDP surrendered. And without a fight. I am sorry for your inspired speech that by good parliamentary practice since Kukuriku is in power, this is not transmitted to the media, it will not be recorded, unfortunately, in these public services probably none of what you have said, but I am extremely glad that you have read this text of introduction for the 2010 Constitution because of the esteemed colleague Sobol who sits here together and participates more or less in the debates. Why? Because speaking in her performance she presented her experience in preparing this text in the working group, and since I haven't had a chance to say, at least now I've got this one of yours, your exposure to say. At every session of this working group, and this is what the colleague is talking about, there are records, we asked that, except for, let me be told by all these constituents, our amateurs in this topic, who, in our position as representatives, participated in the work group, so I asked that, apart from us, to invite experts, experts in particular of those legal branches concerning the amendments to the Constitution, criminal law, criminal law, constitutional law, and others we believe that they could contribute to a better quality text with their knowledge and experience. We never invited any of them because we were not interested in professional opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63613	Thank you. We have an answer, fellow Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63614	Comrade Mlakar, it is clear to me that you, here, have referred to what the esteemed representative of the SDP, Mrs Sobol, said. But I don't understand why you underestimate Mr Blazekovic's and HNS's contribution to this procedure regarding constitutional changes because very clearly the representatives of the HNS said that they had said everything on the board that more about this, such a topic that is here at this time of night without transmission, of course, it's not important for public television, constitutional changes, who saw this being transmitted to HRT not, it's one of the less important topics I suppose in this House, and we'll be able to see in direct transfers I assure you. So I'm sorry that you haven't made any further comments on this exactly, because here's all the focus on these laws that come to us from the HNS Ministries,... The law on public procurement is very well solved, a set of laws of spatial planning and construction and, of course, special quality well-prepared laws from the Ministry of Culture which I admire every time. It is interesting that when the HNS then suggests that you have an exceptional contribution from your colleague and colleagues from the SDP to vote without comment. And you see that so that an interesting coalition can work. And the fact that there's no transmission of apparently colleagues and colleagues know well, so here's why they've come all this way to hear certain arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63615	Josip Djakic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63616	Thank you very much. It is clear from my fellow Mesic that this constitutionmaker or the promoter of these constitutional changes is not to be translated into the life of our citizens, in order to monitor events and currentities, so that it would be one who would bring constitutional changes that would be intended in the first row for them, to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but against them. He makes it clear that he will ban them from making democratic and direct statements about certain issues that are truly lifelike today. And life today really is 650 thousand signatures for Cyrillic in a different sense when it crosses 50% of the population or when it heals the wounds, it can be defined that way, when all graves are defined and all the missing ones are buried. ... The creator in this regard protects the executioner who killed at the orders of the party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a clear and unequivocal intention of the constitutionmaker and the sole ultimate goal of protecting one who is justifiably suspected of committing a crime on behalf of the party. And that is why this intention in the people will be recognized and will be assessed and appreciated just as in all dictatorships where the twilight of minds that did not allow democratic declaration happened was a folk miracle. A people's miracle that clearly said...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63617	Thank you. We have an answer, fellow Mesic. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63618	Dear colleague Djakic, unfortunately, I'm afraid the only chance of what you've said to the people is that at one point, the real fuses will give in to people and throw out because simple arguments don't pass. And what I said before will lead to citizens becoming more radical and radical and that in a more radical and radical way they will have to fight for their rights. While you are shouting at the announcement of the rights of Croatian defenders in front of the Parliament on... you are pushing for their blood-provided pensions you see that this is not going through, you see that there are no arguments in this sense, you see that no legal proposals that are being put into 50 and some place on the agenda, you see that no arguments are helping, you see that there are no examples from history such as in 2010 where, with little effort and will, political consensus could be achieved so that unfortunately, the only chance is that this happens to the people is what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63619	Thank you. Miroslav Tudjman replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63620	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You are my colleague Mesic, if I understand your debate correctly, you have said that constitutional changes are being made with the aim of preventing extradition. You did not further imply, though, what motive you meant to prevent, but I believe that you will agree with me or with the ruling party the strongest ruling party in the coalition that claims not to do so because of one individual. Is that what I think is really not about the individual because if it's about Perkovic and what we can estimate right now, he was only about 4, 5, a level of responsibility if he's responsible for what he's being accused of. In other words, the main problem is that it does not demask or present the whole system as it worked. And that seems to me to be the core of the problem and behind that is the general formula that crimes of serious crime do not go out of date or cover all other types of crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63621	Thank you. My colleague Mesic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63622	I have to accept your line, Honorable Professor Tudjman, you have every right to do so myself, but I didn't say it until the end, it's just that the whole system and the way it works and the policy of action will be exposed if you really want what there is a possible living man who can tell you who it is and call it, of course, and say, point out both the employers and those who came up with that policy and that policy and fund it and implement it and everything else. And that's exactly what some people are at risk for, and that's why they want to make a risotto out of it, which is what these constitutional changes actually are about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63623	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63624	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mesic, is this your amendment to the Constitution and these strong agreements remind you of a classic example of political trade, and why? So just remember here in the case of the region, what discussions were between the HDZB and the Prime Minister as it was fierce, sharp, when the Prime Minister assured the HDSSB that it doesn't matter how much it is, the whole of Croatia is one region, everyone will get equal money and that's no problem at all. So when it comes to life's problem, when it comes to where Slavonia could get more money, and not to get less money at the expense of the SZ part of Croatia, then HDSSB and others couldn't find it. But it's very interesting now that you've covered it up, set some sort of goal and said there's simply no price to get to that goal. Suddenly, these five regions became acceptable, and suddenly these five regions became something great. Very interesting. And who is doing this political trade, the one who has politically agreed to change the Constitution in 2010, and perhaps today we have talked too little about it. Perhaps because of the truth, because of Croats outside Croatia, we should have talked about these political blackmails. And the aim of these constitutional changes is to protect the suicides of the ubiquitous, and the aim of those constitutional changes was to complete the negotiations and enter the European Union. Is that something you can compare, no. But it is very interesting in the main role and for the first and second time, one political party is doing political trade today, and at that time it was doing a classic political blackmail, and unfortunately, Croatian citizens will pay for this, and the price for that previously paid by Croats outside Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63625	Thank you. Answer, fellow Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63626	Comrade Shuker, surely I can testify about Slavonia because I know that as Minister of Culture in you as Minister of Finance, I had very much support for projects in Slavonia and Baranja when it was necessary to restore what was lost in the Homeland War that you were very correct and very well-meaning to these projects. And as far as your question is concerned, does this remind you of a classic store, not a colleague of Shucker's? This reminds me of the original exchange of goods, you understand. I trade, I get you, you understand, there's no more to do with any fair play or any kind of principled trade or any real value of anything for anything but simply I'll give you a hand or two or three or four or six or twelve, and you let me have my three laws or you throw me another one of my sentences so that then I can justify myself to my main board that needs to make a decision either in front of the central council or whatever it is or in front of the committee, that I have an excuse for my own in the party why I did so. So, you know, fellow Shuker, trade involves a little more sophisticated rules. This is a classic fair exchange for you because no one will, of course, pay taxes except that I hope that the Croatian people, citizens and voters will see what this is all about and make it clear when the time comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63627	And Ante Sanader replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63628	Dear Mr Mesic, in your address you also spoke about regional but now you mentioned about the regional structure in these changes, but I didn't hear you notice, or I didn't hear you say you were in Zagreb because for example. everything has been changed as regards the regional self-government and it has been replaced with the region everywhere, but it is interesting what the status of the city of Zagreb will be because the current Article 134 provides that the law allows the capital of Zagreb to determine the position of the county and it is not changed. It means whether the city of Zagreb will lose that status in the future, whether it has the status as a region or how you see it, or what you know about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63629	Answer, Comrade Mesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63630	Dear fellow Sanader, you know this area well, you've been a very successful mayor to God. Unfortunately, from this proposal, the ruling ones are unable to read, but apparently there is a tendency, it is likely that the Traditional, Dugava and some other local committees will get the status of the region. ... It certainly goes in this direction because already the pressures are known when, of course, SDP does not respond in Zagreb. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then you have a situation that the mayor while a member of the SDP is very supportive, then suddenly nothing is good, but still everyone works in city companies and businesses, and it is very appropriate for them, so now we will see very much how this will try to regionalize the city of Zagreb, but it is possible that something like that will come out of this proposal. But of course, you know it's good that you encouraged it in your replica because yet you're the man who led the local administration and self-government, but that's what your other colleagues in Međimurska County, Zadar County, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska County, point to the problem and, of course, the result is exactly the same as our pointing to the illogical nature of these constitutional changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63631	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Tomislav Klaric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63632	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. It's hard to speak as vividly as my colleague Jasen did earlier, but I think in this area since I have a feeling in this honorable home that I'm speaking at the HDZ club looking at this side, so I'm going to try to say my thoughts in his tone, not what I've prepared and thought about so far. So you all remember that car during Yugoslavia, flag 101. That's why I could call this 15-day debate, 7+7 action 101. Why do I think that? When we look at the drafts and articles, it's very easy to get to that number 101. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. GKD or whatever the name of She asked for assembly sessions to last all the time. I see the three of them have been hatching chairs in this House for as long as they sit and argue. Article 5 of the national minority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that HDSSB. When you add it all together, you have the number 101 and it is a public debate of those 15 days, regardless of what the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Josipovic said about what the Constitutional Court means, what the interested public thinks. And just like a colleague of the Box, as you said, it takes longer to discuss some kind of impact study on the environment or some kind of urban plan than the basic document of the Croatian people. In the basic provisions of Article 1 and we can read everything it says: "In the Republic of Croatia, the power comes from the people, belongs to the people as a community of free, equal citizens." The people exercise power by selecting their representatives and making direct decisions. So our people chose their representatives and these same representatives after the direct decision of our people in the recent referendum said we have enough hands to vote what we want and we have a people who are said to be illiterate, that it is traditional only because millions of people have expressed their opinion in this referendum. Because of these changes, we heard from Prime Minister Milanovic. He told us here, I thought that's when he spoke to this side of the assembly you were pushing the rabbit out, you drove out King Kong. I guess this is this King Kong or how it came out of this now, this King Kong people. So it turns out that the government is afraid of its people, so it limits its right to decide by a referendum on important issues in this country. As far as the HDSSB is concerned, there's no one here, I'm not surprised their thinking and their demand for regionalisation, since they're a regional party. But I'm surprised at something else. I'm surprised, and maybe that main board of theirs or whatever they call it won't think like that, so that even their seven hands will be in these 101. I wonder when they vote and when something like that comes in whether the same majority of those 108s will accept their proposal, some kind of amendment, whether they will have a majority in this House. I'm surprised by the Labourists, and they're sworn by democracy, by the people, by the workers. The only thing they managed to do in all of this was to cut that quota to 200, and they took it from them to nothing else. With all the other provisions, they have prevented the people from attending a referendum and more easily gathering a number of votes. But getting that 50 plus 1 hard. And now we're talking about everything else that's going on in the country. What has been the most debated in this House since I've been here? We discussed Perkovic, the newspaper, the media called, then we discussed Cyrillic. It was introduced to Vukovar a few days before the All Saints, the Day of the Dead, and we debated before the day of the fall of Vukovar when the citizens there were most vulnerable. And then in the end, since I'm really not surprised here, I see how it goes. The second part, the last article to take effect, Article 3. 1 January 2014 Why? Is that the man we were talking about, which was passed by the law, and then under the pressure of the European Commission, changed, I don't know what kind of media campaign we're talking about, the pressure here, that the Prime Minister didn't want to admit defeat. He's told us all you've driven out the rabbit, you'll have King Kong. Now we have King Kong, unfortunately this country has him, we all have him, we have our citizens. And what will have to be determined later when this power is moved, and I am sure that after all this is done, it will be removed that 101 votes will be reunited in this House that this injustice that is being done this way is done with this kind of public debate that it will be able to correct itself. And what are the consequences of all this? And we all remember those changes of law when this power came in 2000, 2001. It seems to me that they changed the holidays in the Republic of Croatia. The 30th May is still in me, in all my friends and today we celebrate it and I don't know why we humiliate ourselves, we put ourselves somewhere where this people should never be this situation if they had to, in order to agree to change the Constitution in order to enter the EU to throw out the valuable part of our Croatian tissue of those who had to leave the country. Not to take care of ours outside Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. That young people are still going to New Zealand, Argentina, Canada, and let's say from a joke we change the Constitution, we pass laws by emergency procedure, then we change them and we think about that there are 2,000 employees on the railroad too, so I guess they're going to retire somewhere or I don't know where on welfare. That there are no investments, that our budget in revenue is 17 billion kunas less than in expenditures, that we are accusing each other and that we hear all the time that nothing was right before and nothing was working. I don't know, if it hadn't worked out which roads they'd be monetizing now, which roads they'd be selling now, which Romanians
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63633	I must remind you, my colleague Klaric, that the amendments to the Constitution are the subject. Go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63634	This is exactly the topic. For we talk about what the people should decide, and in this way the Constitution is forbidden to this people.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63635	I'm asking you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63636	So we have a constitution that will bring 101 votes. 101 votes collected by trade just like I said. We have an empty assembly and we have people who can't run this country. And I won't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63637	Thank you. We have one replica, Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63638	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Jerolimov, I just wanted to add something when you were saying... Claric, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I just wanted to add something to your discussion. You said well how you were threatened to hunt a rabbit, and will drive out King Kong, but look at little counterpart Klaric they all fled like rabbits from this assembly. The deal was reached, but it wasn't, fellow Sobol, so admit it, look around you for a dear God. You don't have to. They've normally escaped, and that's not the first time you've known. When we aligned the laws that were to be passed in order to comply with the EU, this part was also empty to you. So much for how much they wanted us to join the EU, and then, of course, trade as it has always been. This is embarrassing! This is embarrassing and where are the press now and where are the media? Shame!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63639	We have an answer, colleague Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63640	I'll be brief. It was not only empty at the time, it was empty, and then when this Parliament made the decision to break up state-law ties with the Republic of Yugoslavia, and they later placed the day as a day of national holiday.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63641	Thank you. Apparently, the position of the club debate took place somewhere else before this session. Ante Jerolimov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63642	Thank you, Vice President. Here I was going to give up the debate, but since 300 percent of the SDP has increased in the Assembly, there are three of them now, and I can see it pisses them off when they're told the truth, then I'm just going to say it. So I'll tell you everything I thought. Here, we have constitutional changes ahead of us that we will vote on for the fifth time if we are going to change the Constitution in Croatian history. The constitution is a fundamental and legal act, an expression of political and national will, a basic formulation of fundamental human rights and freedoms. It, as well as its changes and additions, must be entered and contained which extends the attitudes and positions that exist in a political and social system. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is unfortunately not contained in this proposal. Every constitutional change has its reasons and has its own cause. And it must be taken care of as broadly as possible of the interests of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. I am afraid this time the reason for the constitutional changes was not the interests of the Republic of Croatia, nor its citizens, even more at risk of the rights of our citizens and will be further destabilised by Croatia. Why do I say extra? Following the work of our government, if we can call it work, because work is a conscious and meaningful activity to achieve a useful effect which is definitely not a feature of the first two years of the government's mandate, then we come to the conclusion that the same government is in the interest that we are now dealing with and discussing constitutional changes while under the rug putting burning problems. The whole process of constitutional change is only one in a series of ideological discussions and division in both the Parliament and Croatian society in general. Our colleagues and colleagues have been aware of what the Croatian government has been doing for a long time to cloud the eyes of the Croatian public and escape from reality. About the catastrophic economic situation, about record public debt, deficit, unemployment, taxes, GDP decline, sales of everything and everything, reducing workers' rights, depriving everyone and everyone. And, of course, when the government has no solution to any economic problem and instead of focusing on solving these problems, then we have to deal with some of the past here today. The Croatian Democratic Community has proposed that constitutional changes, more specifically in its Article 31, enter a provision on the non-depreciation of the crime of murder committed during the Yugoslav communist rule. The need for this stems from a series of acts adopted by European institutions in condemning the crimes committed by the communist regimes. However, the government felt that this would discriminate against other victims of serious murder and that the current proposal would also cover the period of communist crime. So I'm wondering, and we're all wondering here all afternoon and all morning why and who's having a hard time with that term of communist crime? Furthermore, the second category of constitutional changes concerns the referendum procedure. The proposed amendments make it difficult to carry out the referendums that we all think together here is a blow to democracy and the rule of law. Since it is quite clear to the public that the success of the referendum in the name of the family, which is a thorn in our rulings, has proved to be in an attempt to obstruct and to raise signatures and to question the legality of the demands, and in the finality and legitimacy of the will of the people, it is necessary to make it clear that the intensity of the rulings makes it difficult to oppose the will of the people in future referendums, knowing that these referendums, as well as this on marriage, would actually be a dissatisfaction with the current authority. This seriously violates the very meaning of democracy and the will of the people, because if gentlemen are an illegal referendum decision of 946 thousand voters, are you a legitimate government with 958 thousand votes, are we really all legitimate representatives of the people or are we not? What has been suggested that nearly 2 million voters must go to the polls is pure destruction and repression of democracy. If we know that so many voters do not go to local elections, let alone Europeans, then it is clear that no referendum in the future will be valid. Is that the interest of the citizens represented by the ruling coalition? As for the introduction of the region and this has been a lot of words in our Constitution today, it is a precedent whose small door is intended to introduce a new territorial unit to the Republic of Croatia, which is only the introduction to the abolition of the counties and the division of Croatia to the regions, so ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition do not have the right to introduce enough centralised country over the knee an additional reflection of the centralisation which will make all our cities and municipalities subject to the few seats of the team of artificial regions. But so it doesn't turn out that we're the only ones who are criticizing you, that we're the only ones who object. Well, the President of the Republic told you the same thing. What's the point of the region? We do not know how many there are, nor do we know what they will be, nor what jurisdiction they will have? You say a lot in the county, which means that both the administration and other costs are increasing, and we really don't understand how you can introduce a new provision to the constitutional level without being precisely defined and legally regulated and publicly discussed issues around the region. As I can see now, you have no arguments and no political will to listen because you have all fled and respected what you are told but doing according to your own, creating in such artificial regions can only be an introduction to new divisions among the Croatian people. And this government in the last two years has already been very practical in introducing the most ideological divisions within Croatian society, so the rule is old tried tactics when there is no idea, vision and no quality for shifts on the economic plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63643	Thank you. Tomislav Klaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63644	Well, here's a colleague of mine you said you didn't know what regions were going to be, how they'd work, what would work, and how they knew that. We recently passed a law that abolished mountain-mounted municipalities and cities of income, and we brought those who are of special state concern to them as well. We told them that they would probably win by some special regulations, the Minister of Regional Development Mr. Grcic is going around Croatia and he's making some kind of plan that no one else has seen in detail yet and he doesn't know what it's all about but I'll point out because you mentioned the municipalities and cities that in 1993 the units of local self-government were set up. This year, all those units of local self-government celebrated the 20th anniversary of their existence. All these units of local self-government, a vast majority of them except those in the most endangered areas, justified their existence, recorded both growth and development, building numerous infrastructures. However, it is obvious now, and we see from all indications that someone wants to manage the incomes of these units of local self-government. We also see it under the Strategic Investments Act, and we see it by the Law on New Spatial Arrangement, and we see it now and according to these laws, where units of local self-government have been taken away from, we see everything and where it leads. He wants to be centralized, he wants to get the money, he wants to be managed from one place, and you, my people, we told you we have enough hands and you do what you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63645	Thank you. The answer of fellow Jerolimov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63646	Comrade Klaric, unfortunately you're right, but how to explain to the blind what color lengths they are. It's a little difficult but we're not the only ones talking about regions, which we're talking about not attacking, but we're opposed in this way to introducing a region where we really don't know how many of them will be. You can also hear the presentations of members of the Kukuriku coalition and members and members of the Kukuriku coalition and different attitudes. Istria is looking for a region. It is not mentioned in the proposed draft of the Law. Therefore, we have a statement of a series of counties starting with Dubrovnik, Zadar, so as not to list further those who seek their autonomy, who are asking to stay in the county or within their county to have or to join with one or two to have regions, but also 20 mayors who unanimously told the Greek minister that they did not want the kind of structure he proposed. That's why I still don't think they know how many regions there'll be. It'll be as much as someone rips.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63647	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Mr. Miroslav Tudjman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63648	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Each constitution should be written so that it is understood to an ordinary man and available to common sense. I'm going to try right from that point of view of a healthy reasonable sort of understanding of these changes that are proposed, to bring them into some sort of relationship. First, as far as this article 31 is concerned, where it is offered or wanted to say that the crimes of a serious murder are suspected of all types of crime and murder and committed during totalitarian regimes, it is simply not so. There have been serious murders, there have been and there will be, we have witnessed that they will be in the future because terrorism assumes serious murders. Crimes of totalitarian regimes are something else entirely. On the other hand, the crimes of totalitarian regimes that we refer to here from communists to fascists, the perpetrators are mostly already dead, and if it is not placed as an address to whom it is possible, that it is the regime that is responsible, then neither the victims or their children, grandchildren or loved ones simply cannot be called upon to go either into the renewal of these processes or to seek compensation for it. On the other hand, what is inadmissible is the position in which the definition is to be classified, i.e. to put this provision on the non-depreciation of criminal acts of serious crime. I would like to remind myself, Article 31(4), which begins not to obsess over the crimes of war profiteering as well as the crimes committed in the process of conversion and privatisation committed during the Homeland War, peaceful reintegration, war conditions, direct threats, independence and territorial integrity, and now the crimes of serious murder are coming. For every common sense, this is limited in the time of the Homeland War and direct retrieval. This is simply inadmissible, therefore, if you want to avoid this, it is also unacceptable, by the way, that in this article, that the conversion was put in the time of the Homeland War. The transformation began, everyone knows it and the sparrows should know it, in 1988 by the law of Ante Markovic. Therefore, with this definition, 2 to 3 years are abolized, if those who committed crimes during the conversion have done so. Therefore, the definition of this Article 4 should read, as follows: "The non-exhaustive crimes of serious murders and murders committed during totalitarian regimes, as well as the offences of the process of conversion and privatisation, the crimes of war profiting and those which do not become obsolete under international law." So you can completely leave out this time limit that in this case only causes interference. On the other hand, the other problem is with this referendum. We have one situation here to suggest, on the side of what my colleagues said about limiting a whole series of topics that can be put on the agenda. In fact, here it is postulated that it should be 40% of those who are in favour of this referendum, actually protects the ruling set, whoever it was in power because for such laws they have most of them in law, so they can make with their majority in the Parliament if they want to accept it. If they don't want to accept it then they say it is, but 40% of the people on the polling list have to vote for it. As an argument is, do we get a guarantee that most of it is for that, and it's not said, it's not brought into a relationship then, but then it has to be, it has to come out for parliamentary elections when MPs are elected to Parliament, when the government is elected, that it has to come out 50 or I don't know more than a percent of the electoral body. So, theoretically, we can imagine that there are 25% of voters here to choose Parliament, government and everything else, but to amend a law, or to accept a referendum issue, for that we have to have 40% of the total electoral body. Therefore, if this is to be left behind, then it is necessary to enter or post that it is mandatory to go to a referendum so that the person who does not go out or simply say if we want to be 40%, if a number comes out, means 40% of the electoral body, then it is accepted no matter how much the percentage is loud. On the other hand, it's not rational, it's not reasonable, we've had the County House, it's worked the way it worked, and it's for the opinion that both regional development and issues of national minorities and all other issues are aligned at the County House. Therefore, why it did not go or was proposed to return to the County House would not increase the number of MPs because, therefore, in addition to all the remarks that have been made so far, there is simply no analysis, no assessment of all the advantages, which are all the shortcomings of the advocacy of one regionalism, i.e. to divide Croatia into regions because we simply do not know whether the intensity of this management of the federal structure of Croatia or something else. Furthermore, I have already said before in the debate, this group is called not to question minority rights, it must not be brought into question on minority rights, and human rights of majority people in Article 45(2) and (3) are violated where it is prescribed that Croats outside of Croatia 600 or 750 thousand who have been removed from the vote list, have no right to vote, or can only vote theoretically in the DKPs because we know that it is impossible in countries such as Canada, Australia, the United States and it is not protected under the reasoning that HDZ adopted that law in 2000, and it is forgotten to say that it was blackmail because those who were blackmailed did not care about Croatia entering the EU. Therefore, if it is to be consistent, these rights of protection should also be required to be placed in the same category when the requirement for a supplement in the Constitution for this new article to be regulated in such a way that this is simply not consistent, it is not acceptable to a common sense and that such changes are not logical to a normal person.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63649	Replica Tomislav Klaric and the replica Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63650	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Tudjman, you spoke of the reduction of the right that these changes of the Constitution are being read. Otherwise, the whole change in the Constitution goes towards the fact that the rights of any national minority have been reached, any other minorities in Croatia cannot be reduced in the referendum, and when it comes to the decision on these rights in the Assembly, these constitutional changes are going to be carried out in accordance with the procedure amending the Constitution. So the entire set of amendments to the Constitution proposed by this proposal aims to protect the rights of individual minorities in Croatia. However, in this same article which prescribes issues that cannot be decided in the referendum, it significantly restricts and reduces the rights of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia because, until the entry into these changes, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia could decide at the referendum on almost all important issues in Croatia in a more relaxed procedure. In this way, we effectively restrict the rights of Croatian citizens when it comes to their immediate statement in the referendum. So it seems to me that in this part of it, it is unworthy to propose constitutional changes in which, on the one hand, one group or more groups guarantee... rights, and on the other, Croatian citizens, regardless of which group they belong, we restrict the rights achieved and reduce their rights when it comes to... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63651	The answer to the line by Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63652	I think you've said quite a bit of that. On the one hand, we have every simulation to show that there's no way that a referendum like this can be conducted under these conditions on any issue. And the logical conclusion behind it is one fear of democracy and fear of the people. And today we have had the opportunity to hear indirect or implicit assessments, the people are problematic so what he could do, what all decisions he could make. And there's this particular conflict with common sense, is there, rather than going to a referendum, which is more often in times of crisis to come about, a set of things that are in power to get support to get a consensus on key issues, much sooner we could get out of the crisis? It's not what you want, it's what you want, it's what you want to sharpen the situation, it's what you want to do, it's what you think, and we don't care what you think as long as we have most of us decide what we want. And that is contrary to all democratic standards with all that intensity that society would live in and in what society they would like to live in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63653	Josip Djakic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63654	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, in these late hours, much has been said about the Constitution, but it is necessary to repeat those important attitudes that those who have long practiced democratic principles and European standards. One of these is the Venice Commission, which clearly states what a country's constitution is and what it means for that country. The country's constitution says it must ensure awareness of constitutionalism in society, awareness that it is truly a fundamental document but not simply a random political declaration. Therefore, the way it is adopted and the way it is implemented must create in society the belief that, by its very nature, the Constitution is a stable act which is not subject to an easy change due to the drop of the current majority. The duration of the Constitution must not be based solely on arithmetical thinking stemming from the adoption between the ruling and opposition forces of the parties in parliament. Constitutional and ordinary policies should be clearly divided because the Constitution is not part of the political game but sets the rules of this game. Accordingly, the Constitution must lay down neutral and generally accepted rules for the political process. A broad consensus should be reached for its adoption and change. That broad consensus is gone today. There is no respect for democratic proposals, no democratic procedures included, no demands proposed by one part of the MPs, no debate on these demands, there is nothing to be called democratic and where Croatia has already received several times because of the reckless decisions of the current ruling furniture. This is certain I am another great minus in democratic perception, but also in the views of European partners towards the Croatian homeland. Such a blatant King Kong policy, which has come out of the Constitution's proposal that many times according to constitutional legal experts is no match for the small one who attends the Faculty of Law, clearly tells about where the Republic of Croatia is going in democratic arrangements, but the rule of law in a democratic society is also being violated in this way. The procedure in which that request is not respected is incompatible with Article 1. Constitution i.e. with the democratic arrangement of the Republic of Croatia with Article 3. Constitution i.e. with the rule of law as the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. This was written by people who know more about the Constitution than I do, written by people who are constantly dealing with constitutional matters. It is their appeal to you who are proudly partyly deciding that in 7 days you will resolve the debate on constitutional changes and then extend it by another 7 days. It is insufficient both, it is inappropriate for all democratic principles, but also for laws. It's inappropriate to think you can do what you want. Gentlemen, you can't and you won't. The fact that they gave you and turned their backs on citizens and defenders in Vukovar is just a democratic act that... according to those who don't understand the victim of Vukovar, who violently want to put a Cyrillic under which tanks entered, trampled people and killed. All the walls that remained were printed by this is Serbia. That's what hurts, hurts victims you can't appreciate, hurts every wound that's received and blood spilled like all those raped and belittled women in Vukovar. Similarly, calling the collected signatures by the fascist attempt of the referendum in today's debates clearly speaks of what you think of Croatian defenders, patriots and patriots, what you think of this majority people who live in the area of Vukovar. You are clearly talking about you will not yield and give in because the great leader has said there will be no more referendum on such issues. The great leader threatened and said we'd save Perkovic. The great leader said I'll deal with you who think differently, but the time of great leaders escapes. The time has elapsed for those who suppress democracy, escapes the time of those who do not respect democratic principles, escapes time for those who want to make political trade these constitutional changes in order to protect criminals and to prevent what is a sacred democratic rule that says a referendum is the form of a direct voter's decision to be made if a sufficient number of signatures are collected. Today when you say that 2 million and some citizens need to go to a referendum then it's a truly impossible mission I believe for anyone, but if 2 million people are gathered in the squares and said enough of you are, you're going to have to leave, it's the same democratic principle of all the countries that have suppressed democracy, that have introduced one-brains, that don't respect anyone. I am sure he will experience what is being experienced today in the democratic world and neither the police nor military forces will safely raise his hands to his people when he says there is enough tyranny, enough of the oppression of democracy, enough is the disabling of democratic confession, and the democratic declaration clearly says: signatures, referendums, so if the people decide so, if they do not decide to fit your ears and wait for a new opportunity. Find a new question, set new standards. We are willing to democratically go out on a referendum, collect signatures, but please gentlemen this is too much to ask for what is impossible to protect your partial interests, the rule of coalition that has not achieved any results certainly cannot be long or eternal. It can't be forever a store that won't come through anything, when a great other leader from Mostar sees that he hasn't torn anything up for his party that's regional character, has spread a little bit to the territory of Dalmatia, so it might as well be the Kliss headquarters of the region. Given the HDSSD that appeared there, I believe it will be another initiative that should be in changing the Constitution or adopting new regions' headquarters. It is clear that the regional concept that we have said will be the statistics of the region in order to enable better life and more income from the European Union funds to be used by funds does not have to be a condition for creating a new regional order in Osijek and the five counties of Slavonia entered it. It will not allow Francis's lust, nor my viritative, nor the very feeling that she told Osijek is enough, enough is enough of you who have done nothing for Osijek throughout the years of your reign. As well as Vukovar-Srijemska will never agree to this as well as Brod-Posavina. Like Istria, Zadar, Dubrovnik and Međimurska, and we will bring the 16th Declaration to Virovitica-Podravska so that these partners of yours will not dream of bringing this constitution to a shortcut or this repression of civil and democratic freedoms and rights in the future. I believe that the Croatian public, despite the fact that you have made it impossible for them to democratically debate that both the European public and this Venice Commission will evaluate your actions as inconsistencies of political maturity and the democratic procedure that was to be done. I am saying all of this because we really had understanding, we had the opportunity to see also in the basis of the control of Croatian broadcasting when we allowed the democratic establishment of the Council as well as in changes to the Constitution in all activities we saw democratic freedoms being represented and that participation and opposition was almost the same as the authorities. There's no more of that today, So expect a civil court of all your stupidity [[Thank you very much.]] which you have done in changing this Constitution. [[Strebec: Your time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63655	I let you talk. I don't know who has great leaders and who are the great leaders in Croatia. I would suggest you read your debate, and free me from the god of such a fighter for democracy. Ivan Simunović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63656	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Djakic, you mentioned the Perkovic case. The attempt to amend the Constitution that goes towards resolving the Perkovic case in Croatia through a proposal to abolish the age of serious murders is another transparent trick of this government to reduce the damage it has done to Croatia by urgent amendment of the Law on the implementation of the European Arrest Warrant and with the initial goal of protecting persons organised in the liquidation of Croatia from political immigrants in the world and their employers in Croatia. HSP Ante Starcevic is deeply disappointed with the persistent attempts, the urgent amendments to the Constitution, which is a fundamental legal act of state and society. Instead of being respected as such by the representatives of this government, they abuse their position in power and use the Constitution to achieve daily-political bickering, which is inadmissible in organised democratic legal states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63657	Replication response, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63658	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, you have well noticed that the protection of certain stems from that communist, party system that is probably transferred to a part of the forces that are today the successor of the Communist party of Croatia, are now the Social Democrats, the Democratic Party of Croatia. There are also probably equal additional points in thinking, but still living ones who were employers in the former UDBA or ODZNA. Equally by protecting them then and today they forget their great deeds that they have done, and they have done simply ordinary political killings. They can't get out of these political murders, they don't condemn them, they don't want to be put in the Constitution so they'd really want to deal with anyone who killed someone for political reasons, especially in the EU countries who absolutely tolerate it, who condemns it. I believe that this attempt to defend the indefensible will not pass, that Perkovic will come before the court of justice and answer for what he did, and they say that he is certainly one of those who committed the execution of the bar Đurekovic, while others have not yet seen the public. But there are 27 more on the list waiting for the European arrest warrant. Playing the European Arrest Warrant and this way of changing the Constitution will certainly result in EU and country friends looking differently at the Republic of Croatia today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63659	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63660	Thank you very much. Well, here's a esteemed colleague, in your debate, you've really touched everything that we've seen as people of this country and what's happening these very days. As time goes on, so I got the impression that they are coming to an end of this mandate, and here they have been for two years, increasingly repressive measures are being taken at all levels from both local, regional and so on at the level of the Republic of Croatia. When you spoke about the referendum, when you spoke about the Constitution at every step, there was this very decision taken unilaterally, which is made by various trades and which does not make any future, especially in the sense of democracy in the Republic of Croatia. It is the best showing of a referendum on marriage, it is the best indicator of a referendum on Cyrillic, where so many signatures have been collected in such a short period of time. And if we go back a little bit and into the past term then we are witnessing that the SDP has just advocated reducing the number of signatures so that a referendum can be called in the best possible way and a smaller number of signatures than it was before. And what do they stand for today? To put an end to it again, because they saw that the dissatisfaction of people in the Republic of Croatia through a referendum that really quickly gathers a large number of signatures allows people to have the referendum carried out. Now, again through these constitutional changes, they argue that it is not exactly possible to gather a large number of signatures in just a short time, that there is no referendum and that there is no show of the strength and will of the people, or that it is not precisely the truth that the people through the referendum are going through, and that is precisely the indication that the referendum... Clean defeat of this government and where the people won anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63661	You're out of time. Please! Replication response, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63662	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63663	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63664	Col. Franjo is clear on what are the goals and intentions, it is clear that it will not be possible to win, at least it is thought that, half the majority of voters enrolled in the Voter Registry. 2 million and something should go out and vote on the referendum issue in order to change something. But since both Chapters 1 and 2, the Constitution cannot be discussed or raised as a referendum or as a question, then it is clear that we have excluded half of the Constitution. That half of the Constitution can no longer be declared in the Republic of Croatia. And about the other half, we can talk about the protection of uncles as cultural value, the birds of singers eventually. Maybe not because it's in the last article too, and it's maybe on the border that it might or might not. Whistleing on the street, the question is, maybe yes, maybe not. I don't know what these questions are that need to be said about the referendum when it's... one article of the Constitution excluded as a possible question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No more freedom, no more civil opportunities, 200 signatures can be collected, but what question are we going to discuss? What's the question we're going to ask the citizens about? Now that's more off by adopting the Constitution. This is a dark, democratic darkness that introduces the SDP. It introduces him because he sees that citizens simply can't stand this tyranny anymore, that they plead freely on every issue of both marriage and Cyrillic, so on the budget, they would collect signatures and check the Pensions Act and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63665	Thank you very much. Dear Djakić, therefore there is this pan, time is measured and watch. Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63666	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Today a lot has been said and there have been a lot of dissonant tones, and I will not repeat myself, but I will reduce my discussion as much as possible. In fact, if we look at or search our countries' networks in the environment mainly in the EU, I think we will see that these countries' governments are talking about youth problems and their employment, the increase in production, the increase in GDP, innovation, higher education. And if we go back to Croatia and search our government's websites in the last 20 months and for several months we will actually see what we are with and how we started in Croatia. By abolishing patronage over Bleiburg, by introducing health care, Cyrillic and reprimands in Vukovar, by amending the Constitution due to the extradition of one man and the latest topic imposed by the Church and church taxes. That's certainly not good. Today may be a holiday and an honor, a pride for us MPs because we attend and participate in the draft constitutional changes. The occasion certainly does not have many MPs when we look at how and how the Constitution changed in other countries. We'd say something changes for the good, for the better, for the development of democracy and national well-being. Note, as part of this current debate on constitutional changes, HDZ has proposed to amend the Constitution so that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia can be guaranteed a proportionate representation of their representatives in the Croatian Parliament in relation to their total number of citizens, and to facilitate their exercise of their voting rights. Today it is a big problem, abroad and about the Law on residence and we are witnessing great, great disdains of Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Constitution as the largest legal and political act of one state was to be adopted by consensus in the Croatian Parliament. The constitution must be an expression of the widest social consensus both professional, political and general public, and not of the additional radical divisions that we have heard about today in the Croatian Parliament and in Croatian society and to be politically instrumentalised in favour of some political options. The basic text of our Constitution, which was passed back in 1990, was precisely this, the expression of the largest consensus in Croatian society and was brought before Christmas in 1990. And as Christmas is, and this is the time of Christmas, the holiday of peace, joy, family unity, so was the Constitution of 1990, the expression of peace, was brought in peace, in unity and joy. Which, unfortunately, is not the case today. Today, remember, we are also in this Christmas holiday, and instead of peace and joy and unity, this proposal for constitutional change represents everything, not just that. And I'm sorry that the debate went on today because we didn't reach consensus. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63667	Thank you very much. Comrade Ante Sanader, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63668	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I know that my debate no longer means anything to anyone here and that you will certainly not listen to it, but I have a responsibility to my constituents and especially to my fellow mayors who have worked with me for 8 years and have prayed for a voice to be heard and that their position is clearly said here because they are upset by what was done in this Constitution and this introduction of the regions as a new form of self-government because this will be further destruction of regional administrations, our counties, because it is tragic when you look at Article 13 in which Article 135 of the Constitution is regulated, or complemented by which of course legal status along the counties is put in place because nothing new to those regions is given apart from what it means in Article 135, instead of the counties, put in the regions. So all the same powers, all the same powers remain in the regions, what does that mean? If we look at those regions in Article 136. The constitution that regions will have their statutes and all normative acts means giving them the opportunity to fully organise as units of regional self-government. And taking into account both Article 138 and paragraph 2 which is also changed and clearly says there are no new funds, the incomes of the units of the region remain proportionate to their powers provided for in the Constitution. So counties and regions will have the same resources because they have the same constitutional powers, the same resources and the counties are already dead. County, here is Split-Dalmatia County is the largest Croatian county with 470 thousand inhabitants, with 55 towns and municipalities and has the original budget of 180 million. Now look when the region is organized there and then with the same resources and something else of this little Sibenik County has about 30 million and then we're setting up another region, what's that gonna mean for the lives and work of these people in the region? What will that mean for the development of regional self-government? It means new destruction. If we know that this is all done in such a short time that there is no expert analysis, that there is no labs, studies that would justify the introduction of regions, and given that the government has also set up advice for local and regional self-government whose view is that it is not going to go and that it will not go into such a quick change of local and regional self-government without quality evolution and justification studies, then we see where this is going. The only study we have is a study done by the county community two years ago, which showed relations, which showed the possibilities of regionalisation of Croatia, all the shortcomings and all the problems that they have but also no one took into account, no one gave the study any importance because just to look at the only study that exists would then see how pointless it is to introduce the regions and regionalisation of Croatia. But obviously there was no desire to make a longer public debate here, it was not wanted to hear the profession, it was not intended to make any elaborate or study that showed the justification of introducing this, obviously that the promoter did not respond, and it is obvious that it states, that this indicates that here the interest and change of the Constitution are some other, some other nature and that the regions are inserted as only one form of trade with some who will have to raise a voice or who will not have to raise a voice, who will raise a voice for this Constitution and thus provide something else, which here is not a quality approach to local regional self-government, quality regionalisation of Croatia. This will certainly be a new problem, a new tragedy and new problems that will put regional self-government to rest, further destroy and bring about a situation that simply won't work and then will be paralyzed Croatia's life knowing what competences Croatian counties have, which competences have our regions, what it will mean for Croatia. So I appeal to reason, I appeal to thinking and to what I said to the city of Zagreb, take this example as far as nothing has happened or thought. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Constitution for the city of Zagreb remains the possibility of the county, that it has the shape of a county. And what does that mean? That this will be the city of Zagreb and that it will have less jurisdiction than some region that will be five times smaller than it. This is why I appeal to reason, I appeal to the people who have prepared this and who still have time to change these things to bring them into this matter of Croatia and the Croatian regions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63669	Comrade Davor Bozinović please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63670	Thank you. Well, on the trail of previous speakers, I could say that under normal conditions it would be an honor to take a word at the end of the debate on changing the Republic of Croatia's constitution. However, I cannot say this because this debate today has shown not only for this side of the assembly but also for the good part, let us remember those debates of the rest of the assembly that these provisions of the Constitution have produced much more questions, that they have not provided answers to how this Constitution will apply, how clear the provisions concerning these main thematic elements that it deals with. The Assembly is in any case a place where these issues should be discussed. But what makes a smart policy, what is desirable, what is decent, is to consult those who know more about this than parliamentary representatives who have various profiles, various professions and certainly cannot measure themselves on the knowledge of constitutional law with teachers who annually raise generations of future lawyers. We see that in some cases this works in some cases, and their work is not particularly successful. So all arguments should be respected especially by the serious ones. It is a serious argument by the Venice Commission on Hungarian amendments to the Constitution because it is an advisory body not only of the Council of Europe but also of the European Commission. Serious arguments are also made by the President of the Republic not only because the President of the Republic is but also because he has recognised an expert in criminal and criminal law and a whole series of constitutional experts who, although well blocked in media acts, have managed to say what they think about all this. In the end, and that Dr. Josipovic is not the president that only a criminal law expert and his remarks would have gone undetected and he would have gone as other experts, and I'm not sure it would have gone better despite the fact that both the president and the criminal law expert because as silent as his remarks can be, which are very concrete, they will not be adequately valorised despite the fact that he is not too late as it was said here today. I am more concerned that the Croatian Parliament has not officially informed the President that the Constitution is changing here and that there is some initiative and that it simply asked him to give his opinion. His memo shows that he was informed by means of an indirect route because he mentioned a version that was available to him, I assume, from the Internet. We have already said today, a public debate of many things, most of the things in this assembly set out or in the ministries for much less important laws to last longer than this one. The appearance of the license plate will be discussed for a month, and this has been determined to last a week so that only under the pressure of both the Constitutional Court and the public and the profession has extended, you will not, God, for two weeks. When we say that, we get the answer today, we think that's enough. Well, that's not an argument. That is not an argument, especially when compared to other legal proposals. Of all these topics, I would only touch these regionalisations in one context that has not been talked about today, and this is also about what is expected of the EU Council on 28 January, relating to the excessive deficit procedure in Croatia. In fact, one of the conditions that is clearly set is both rationalisation and greater efficiency of public administration. I am now very interested in how we will explain the fact that another unit of local self-government is being introduced, the administrative unit in Croatia as a rationalisation. How the administration minister working on the new public administration strategy will reconcile the relationship between the county and the region. There are only two solutions and that should be said publicly. Either the county will be abolished, which will be very difficult, as we hear we spend it in action, or the county and the region will be left behind, so however strange the beak looks. This second, believe me, Brussels will be very difficult to sell, very difficult to explain that it is part of our comprehensive efforts to reform public administration and thus get the opportunity to be monitored and supported by the European Commission in this procedure of the excessive deficit of the state budget. What do you say at the end of this debate? Perhaps best to quote those smarter than us, I would use Charles de Gauelle this time who, in his own time, said politics is too serious a job to be left to politicians and to add to those who have excluded both the adequate public and the adequate profession and adequate political authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63671	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63672	And here, in the end, a colleague of your presentation, when you're talking about regions, it's really nonsense and whoever suggested it, and we know that the current government is proposing, the question is why it was done. Some people who have been involved in politics for many years, and also businessmen, academics say there must be a reduction in local self-government, municipalities, cities, counties, and, behold, we are now setting up regions. So who's going to lock anyone up here or undo the county or stay in the region? But the issue may be a political issue, perhaps the current government does not like the county in those units of local, or regional self-government where HDZ is in power. Well, probably everything that they do today and this repressive policy they're taking towards the units of the same local self-government as the legal people thinks like this, we're going to load the burden on them on the back, so we're going to put them in a nice simple dictionary like this: Look, gentlemen, you can't do business, you see that your income doesn't match your expenditures. Maybe it's one of the policies of this wise coalition government that systematically works to destroy every unit of local self-government, and I believe that's what it shows is that it's probably where HDZ is in power, and then regions are established. Imagine, in this impunity, my Požega-Slavon County has such incomes minimally, and especially because it is burdened with other previous expenditures, i.e. costs, it cannot function now, and imagine that it is also being loaded with the region. So who is so wise and smart in this today's government and government of this government is these decisions systematically destroy both county and local self-government and it will very soon prove to be true.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63673	The reply to the replica Davor Bozinović. ... You're not answering. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ivan Simunović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63674	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Bozinovic, you have given some reasons for disagreement on the proposal to amend the Constitution. In HSP, we, too, oppose the amendments to the Constitution in the sense proposed by the Proposer, especially because from several government sources it is clear that the objective of the change is to prevent the future implementation of the Croatian people's will, as stated in a recent referendum on the constitutional definition of marriage. In this case, the aim is to prevent the launch of a referendum on Cyrillic in Vukovar despite the collected 650 thousand signatures. The statements by individual ministers and representatives from the Kukuriku coalition in the media that there are certain initiatives in our society that point to an urgent change in many regulations and that such a referendum "will not pass" is proof that the current government sees the enemy in its own people and wants to impose its ideology and belief instead of serving it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63675	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the draft decision tomorrow. Tomorrow at 9.30 we will begin with the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA-Component Assistance Programme in Transition and Strengthening Institutions for 2013, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 559. Thank you very much and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63676	We are now going to decide on the points of the agenda that we discussed in the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The debate on the text of the proposal is over. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. I'd like a representative of the proposer, the esteemed representative of Peju Grbin, to be seen. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63677	Your Honor, Mr. President. It was only this morning that we learned that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system was manifested to the tabled amendments of the HDZ Club on the draft amendments to the Constitution. Due to the importance of the topic and our preparation, I request a 20-minute recess for the club's session so that we can manifest ourselves and please warn Mr Cain that it can be voted so primitively outside this assembly hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63678	Thank you very much for your warning. Who else is answering? Representative of the HDZ Club Pupovac, representative of the SDSS and respected Igor Dragovan of the SDP club, Lesar of the Croatian Labour Club. I'm taking a break for 10 minutes. At 12 and 20 we start. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12,20 HOURS]] I'd like a representative of the HDZ Club of Honored Representative Davorin Mlakar to present his position.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63680	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. It's symbolic how we've been followed through the process of amending the Constitution, maybe this is a good day. Today is 13, Friday, and I think it is convenient to talk today about the text that is today in the vote in front of the Croatian Parliament. We tried during the short procedure, I would say this turbo Constitution point to everything we held inappropriate, that it is hasty, that it is bad or that it is unnecessary to resolve the Croatian Constitution. Unfortunately, in Parliament, we were left alone. What gives us the right to talk about the right things is the opinion of the largest Croatian public, the opinion of scientists and experts dealing with constitutional law. What you did not want to consider as HDZ arguments, unfortunately you did not listen to either from the scientific or from the professional public. The shortest we must again express our disagreement with the procedure of bringing the Croatian Constitution and its amendments and additions, but also the essence of which it engulfs. The Croatian Constitution in its greatest work could serve us as the Constitution of a modern and democratic state. And I think that this assessment has been given by many, and if that assessment had stood up to this, I would say in haste, violently invented, necessary or unnecessary procedure of changing the Constitution. And especially because of the motive for this constitution to change because of the interest of a very small group of people and because of the need of only one man. This approach to the amendments to the Constitution deserves every conviction regardless of whose interests, and when they are in such a small number, they are protected or protected. And given that, we repeat the grades we gave in earlier discussions. This Proposal for a Constitution or its amendments will lower the democratic standards we have achieved, not only by adopting the Constitution and amending and supplementing it but also by applying these provisions in our everyday practice, not only in this Parliament but also in the laws that are in force in the Republic of Croatia. The shortest words of these amendments lead to some fundamental principles being violated by the fact that Croatia is governed as a civil state, and now this principle is also changing to the fact that we are seriously jeopardising the principle of rule of law for which we have all advocated and for which we are also from the opposition, but also you who have sworn in this House that we will behave by respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and its laws. Today I wonder which constitution shall we respect? The one we've sworn to or the one that's radically altered as we have today? Unfortunately, the amendments and additions to this Constitution except that they have been adopted for the needs of a small group or one man, and the amendments are unfortunately also the fruit of a cheap majority trade with political parties that it has requested to ensure the required number of votes for its vote. But it will be broken in the head, not just for you or us, but for all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And in a very ugly way, for today, it's only up to us to indicate this danger and the possibility that is just behind the hill. That is why we appeal once again to the ruling majority. Tomorrow you won't be able to say that you didn't know or that you didn't want to bring these changes. It'll be too late for that tomorrow. Today is not yet and for this reason today, and not tomorrow we appeal to you to change your mind and to withdraw this proposal instead of such a hasty move, bring it in line with the opinion of scientists and professional public, with the opinion of those who want to make the Constitution a modern document. Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63681	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63682	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The amendments to the Constitution prepared by the Working Group and discussed in the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament represent a significant improvement in constitutional norms and remove the risks of a constitutional crisis which has been manifestly manifested in Croatia over the past year and at the same time makes the constitutional legal order of the Republic of Croatia more consistent. For what? More consistent because of the fact that constitutional laws, and we have three, constitutional law on the Constitutional Court, constitutional law on the rights of national minors and constitutional law on the implementation of the Constitution now receive one status as they should have since the first day. When it comes to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities until '99, no one questioned the constitutional character of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities except for certain locals from the Constitutional Court who came up with their opinion that something could be called and not be, that someone could be Janko by name, and by what it really is, it doesn't have to be Janko could be anything else. The HDZ counterpart is now proposing that the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities not only be the Constitutional Law, not only in its own power but not in its own right, which is the consistent policy of one part of the people within the HDZ and is the consistent policy of one part of the people who came from that party or under the influence of that party to the Constitutional Court. And that is, whenever it is possible to seize the opportunity to limit and reduce the rights of national minorities to take advantage of that opportunity, that whenever there is no longer a reason for the world to show that we respect the rights of national minorities to reduce those rights immediately afterwards. It's been done since '91 on a few occasions. Now this opportunity does not exist, because there is a parliamentary majority in which unfortunately HDZ does not participate for the first time in 20 and some years of parliamentaryism in Croatia. But those involved in this have no doubt brought it with full consciousness and brought it in line with their commitment to what needs to be done right now to make the Constitution as best possible. Now allow me another word regarding the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Here in this House, I was at the gallery when the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities was passed. As a result of the HDZ's votes, the pro-European Croatian party was then preparing to take over pro-European Croatian politics and at the head of the Croatian government. What happened to HDZ when Croatia became a member of the EU to make a 360-degree turn-off and become an anti-European party? What happened to those same things he voted in this assembly and in other places HDZ now wants to crash and change? Is it just a sign that once we act for one purpose, and the second time we act for another purpose, or is it actually a more serious nature disorder? And that's that it's about the crash, that it's about the decline below the level of value the HDZ had in years when it ran European politics in Croatia. I hope this isn't about the other one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63683	Thank you very much. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63684	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. You've injured Rule 238 twice. I don't know where Mr. Pupovec's right to call the members of the Constitutional Court the butchers or the maesters as he's already called, and another thing I don't know from where he's entitled to evaluate and insult that HDZ is an anti-European party. Unbelievable. While he was in the blinds of HDZ and while HDZ was finishing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63685	Thank you very much for explaining everything. Say it, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63686	Please take a break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63687	You'll get a good break, but let me just say why I say you said that because you started a political debate, not to determine the facts regarding the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so it was necessary to say that the breach of the Rules of Procedure was not used as a replica. No, no. And now I'm going to answer you right now before you take a break, and I think you know because I'm sure that in this room they know clearly what a maester means. That means quite certainly an expert. Secondly, the political assessment of me or you or any party is quite normal in the political jargon and political performance not only in Parliament, but in the normal assessment of political views, whether mine, yours or any other party. So you used the Rules of Procedure to use the replica. In that sense, you have injured the Rules of Procedure and should give you a warning. And now you're going to take a break. Yeah. Stanka, are you going on a break? 0.k.a. Ten minutes. At 45, at 12.45. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12.45 HOURS]] I would like the representative of the HDZ Club of Honored Representative Jandrokovic to present the position of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63689	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So I must start by saying that I am sorry that we are turning the discussion of the amendments to the Constitution into a debate on world-famous and international issues in the Republic of Croatia. But regardless of the attempt by Mr. Pupovac to transfer responsibility to the right side of the assembly, it is again he who opened the issue and very inappropriately accused HDZ of anti-europeanism. It is one strategy that I think is now already anyone who is on average following political opportunities in Croatia clearly, and I am very sorry that Mr. Pupovac is using this method. He reminded me today of what the President of the Republic of Mr. Josipovic said about him that sometimes he lives politically from these mild tensions between the Croatian people and the Serb minority in the Republic of Croatia, and now it seems to me that the power in Belgrade has changed, which is a little bit sharper when it comes to national issues and he is tightening his rhetoric and raising those tensions to a higher level. Now, Mr. Pupovci, you're not gonna get away with this. The HDZ has proven very much that the pro-European party because HDZ was a key party that ensured the Euro-Atlantic integration of the Republic of Croatia, has carried out a difficult comprehensive process of EU entry negotiations and HDZ will certainly continue its pro-European policy by affirming the values that are characteristic of the right-wing parties in all European Union countries. But I'm sorry our friends on the left don't understand that. They think that what is right of the centre is not politically acceptable because they were taught by their political predecessors and any who were on the right by the centre would be declared a chauvinist, a nationalist, or if it were a political need and a Ustasha. And what you're doing now is the same scenario, the same path that is not acceptable and disrupting, deeply disrupts the political stability of the Republic of Croatia and threatens stability and the world-wide but also the international one. And stop doing that. We have the right to our views, we have our worldview that can be unacceptable to you, but we deny you the right to label us and politically try to push us right, to declare us fascists, nationalists, because that way you believe that you will reduce the legitimacy of our political action, to re-prove us in the international community. That's the scenario we've been looking at, and you can be sure we're not naive to fall for it. And when it comes to European values, I would remind you that it is you who violated European values and reached standards three days before the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, when you went to change the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union when you brought Lex Perkovic. This is where the violations of European standards and achievements that we have achieved in the negotiations on entry into the European Union started, and that is the truth. And stop always accusing others, you are the ones who have caused a whole series of deep social conflicts and disputes, you are the ones who violate the stability of political, social in the Republic of Croatia not only by being unable to solve economic issues, but by continuing to open world-wide wars... I know the truth hurts, I know the truth hurts. ... /The noise in the hall./... That's why you react. But I will repeat again to you, HDZ is a party to the right center, HDZ is a key party of a newer Croatian history that has ensured the independence of the Republic of Croatia, international affirmation, NATO and the European Union, and you can sing your songs but the people will recognize it. I especially remind you of the results of the referendum that you had a few days ago, which you are also not interested in because I cannot fit into your mental communist assembly which has unfortunately changed is not... /The noise in the hall./... From the time you chased political opponents, when you... /The noise in the hall./... [[Applause.]] That's why you probably ended patronage over Bleiburg, which is also on the trail of this applause, and then you should've clapped too. Thank you. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63690	Your Honor. ... /The noise in the hall./... If we kept going like this, we'd never end up ever, especially if we kept sticking labels to each other. ... Why did you answer now? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, you have equal, thank you for that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So if we kept going like this, we wouldn't really be doing our job. Sticking labels, especially to people who weren't not in communism, but certainly there's at least a big percentage that you've marked for communists who weren't even born and who didn't even live in families so they could say something about it. So you weren't at the height you wanted to be. That's what I have to tell you. And we have to work, we need to approach the changes seriously, so please continue the debate on the parties' clubs as we have written. Now it's your turn, what? Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63691	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, perhaps you see less on this side. You are the president of the Croatian Parliament declared by most or all representatives About the violation of Rules of Procedure 238 so that there wouldn't be [[Leko: What is the matter with the honourable representative?]] By allowing one representative a speech that is inappropriate for this one. [[/Intruder Leko: With what?]] You want to speak for the president? I'd like to concentrate, thank you very much. [[Intruder Leko: Here you go, finish.]] In an inappropriate speech, he caused the need to respond and seek a break on behalf of the club. If you had warned the first speaker, the second one wouldn't have answered. But since you haven't already and you've failed to warn him about the content and manner of his speech then it's not right to warn anyone who suits him I won't even say it the same way, much softer and much more politely, and you scream as much as you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63692	Thank you very much. There really is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, you abuse the Rules of Procedure. My dear colleague, you know that. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63693	Your Honor, Mr. President, I know what I'm about to do is not correct to most MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, but I will do it anyway. Please, on behalf of the SDSS club, take 10 minutes off.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63694	All right, all right. Anything can, just... We'll continue with the breaks, no problem. Just tell me the reason for the break right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63695	Mr. President, if there is going to be a request here for a breach of the Rules of Procedure for something that the infringement of the Rules of Procedure is not and if people here will be deprived of the right to speak freely in accordance with their opinion and their assessment, then tell us if such a possibility exists both one club and one representative in the Assembly. If there is I will withdraw my break and we will shut up as MPs, and if not, then either you or I will say what needs to be said to those who would like to limit the kind of words, the number of words and the way of opinion that MPs in the Croatian Parliament can speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63696	My dear colleague, Pupovac, you have no reason for such an assessment. Both you and others have had and will have the right to speak and express their views, and anyone who says, of course, that others do not have to like or agree with it. I'm asking you nicely not to take a break, there's no reason to, but to keep doing what we're supposed to do today, to decide what things we discussed last week. I'm asking you nicely. We've got two more clubs. Let's go to the respected Igor Dragovan on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63697	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the meaning of the first break here is actually lost because the first break was about what we should vote for, and that is the issue and the change of the Constitution. And afterwards, a colleague, Jandrokovic, came out completely unargumented, intolerantly attacked a club of representatives who had not even declared themselves before. It just shows a mental set and a way of thinking respected gentlemen of you when you are in opposition to you when you're in power. It wasn't enough for you when you were in power to steal from Croatia, to take taxpayers' money, but now you need to take people's right to a different opinion, the right to live and speak in this country. That's unacceptable. I am surprised at all by this aggressive act and aggression that you have shown in your speech completely unnecessary, completely without any reason unless you simply can accept the next fact, but it is a fact shown in the last parliamentary elections that you have a hand in Parliament at this moment as many as you have and that there is a majority in this Parliament who wants to talk and negotiate certain constitutional changes. The way we do, the way we've done these two years, and how we're going to do the next two years' evaluation on this will be given by voters in the next election, and it's your right to look for your place under the sun. And when you go to the polls, you'll probably offer a different and better program and it'll be rated by voters. But let there be one democratic dialogue here. By obstruction, by stalling, by planting, by aggression, by denying a different opinion, I thought those times were long behind us in Croatia. You're taking them back again. It seems to be your only policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63698	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Vice President of the House, Honorable Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63699	Your Honor, Mr. President, I think you've injured Rule 238 because you've allowed an agent to insult other agents. That's very clear, because I mean that way, if that's how we keep talking to each other, accusing each other of what we stole, who we killed, whose fathers killed someone, etc. I'm afraid this Parliament won't get far.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63700	Dear colleagues from this chair I would say that when you look here and hear a political debate at the Croatian Parliament today much softer than it was. I wouldn't want to, and these grades that were said today are softer than they were the other day, so you didn't react. So don't ask for arbitration when anyone likes it. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, there isn't. ... Well, they will, they will. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's a good suggestion. ... Of course, I'm not worried. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The Honorable representative Lesar raised his hand. ... Don't you? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Take it easy. So we continue to discuss clubs. Here's your Honorable representative, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63701	Dear colleagues and colleagues, she kills him too many words. And this debate has proved so far that sometimes too strong words can be murderous. The order of the break was requested because, as the HDZ colleagues explained, they had just now learned that the Committee on the Constitution had established an indication of their amendments if I remember the occasion well. As far as I know, the HDZ amendment to the Parliament came between 18 and 19 hours last night and the Constitutional Committee held a meeting this morning at 9:00. And it was obvious about all the amendments. Unfortunately, the applicants of the amendment at the session to explain them were not. That's the facts. When HDZ reaches an agreement with someone then it is a democratic procedure, when someone else achieves some kind of agreement within the Croatian Parliament, it is, in their view, a trade. For example, they agreed by democratic procedure in 2010 that the Croatian diaspora in the Croatian Parliament has three MPs. They came today with an amendment that the number of representatives of the Croatian diaspora should be represented in the Croatian Parliament in proportion to the number of citizens, not voters, but citizens. On the working group and on the committee yesterday in the debate, and this morning I wanted to ask the committee's meeting to answer just one question: how many representatives of the Croatian diaspora would have in the Croatian Parliament? And secondly, the credibility of that part of the amendment submitted by the HDZ club over the referendum has been argued historically with two facts. First, at a time when they were in power, they prevented the first civil referendum that had collected a sufficient number of signatures, a working referendum on the Labour Act using the law prescribed funds due to the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. Secondly, a few days ago, the president of the same party put a signature on the current referendum issue, and said a few days later that the referendum issue he signed was counter-constitutional. The credibility of the proposal is assessed on the basis of the behaviour of not only written proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63702	Thank you, too. Now let's decide on the amendments. The President-in-Office of the Committee, Mr Peja Grbin, on behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Please give an indication of the amendments to the HDZ Club of Representatives. Amendment No. Article 1 is deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63703	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the amendment promoter does not accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63704	An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63705	The organisation of regional and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia needs to be improved, and these changes are going precisely towards improving the system through regionalisation, i.e. decentralisation as one of the ways of improving the development of the Republic of Croatia. In the Constitution, the second degree of self-government is clearly defined as a regional self-government, and the text of the Constitution introduces the concept of a region which does not finish the regionalisation process but is just beginning. This process will entail a whole series of discussions, studies, checks and other actions that will eventually lead to such a structure of regional self-government that will really benefit all citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63706	On behalf of the promoter of the HDZ amendment, the respected representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63707	I'm sorry, it'll probably cause a special reaction from the other side, you didn't say whose first amendment was. HDZ Club. I probably don't know if a colleague of the coat of arms was talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63708	Yes, I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63709	You said? It's about an amendment that I'm going to try to explain because his explanation applies to a few of the amendments we've submitted. So it is about introducing regions as special units now regional administrations in the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 1(2) of Article 5, Article 7-17, proposes, in addition to the counties, the introduction of regions as a new form of regional self-government. The problem is also pointed out by the President of the Republic in his already mentioned letter, which we commented yesterday on where it stands if the regions, which would be logically understood as the archeological form of regional self-government, should be determined that we have obtained a new level of regional self-government with all the consequences of total public spending, the growth of administration and others. In addition, the introduction of regions as a unit of regional self-government came without a valid professional and political analysis and apparently did not consider any possible coincidences that could result from the adoption of such constitutional changes. This proposal is contrary to the position of the Venice Commission and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia on the issue of the duration of the public debate on changes to the Constitution and the need to reach a broad consensus on constitutional changes. Given the public reactions to the problems of regionalisation of the Republic of Croatia and the fact that the public is not familiar with these plans, which point to recommendations, professional, political and our public, we suggest that you give up this part of constitutional change. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63710	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment to the number 1 of the HDZ Representatives Club which the applicant does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We move to Amendment number 2 of the same club of HDZ representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63711	The amendment shall not be accepted by the Proposer. The protection of national minorities is our obligation stemming from our past between the international documents we have adopted and from the EU accession process in which we have specifically committed ourselves to protecting human rights and the rights of national minorities. This proposal explicitly seeks to remove laws protecting the rights of national minorities from the so-called group. constitutional laws in which these laws have been in place since the 90th Constitution and the adoption of the first constitutional law to protect human rights and minority rights since 1991. The proposer thus significantly reduces the protection of minority rights and enables not only easier changes to such rules, which in itself is not acceptable but opens the way for and the long-term reduction of the rights of national minorities, which is why this amendment needs to be rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63712	On behalf of the HDZ Club, the applicant for the amendments shall be the honourable representative of Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63713	Mr. President, the government refuses this amendment, too, has used some of this pay phone today to say something that doesn't suit the truth. And I'll try again. The constitutional character of each law was prescribed by the Constitution and by the Law on the Rights of National Minorities. When the law is now subject to the need to adopt the procedure provided for in the amendments to the Constitution, it is granted constitutional character, which leaves the Constitutional Court unable to assess the legality of such acts. That's why you're getting into the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. That's why we think it's the first reason this kind of treatment of this law is unacceptable. While the Constitutional Law was as an organic law but without the envisaged procedure, there was still the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court over the control of these regulations and I will use an expert opinion to elaborate the second part of why we think it is not a good solution. Any separation of any group of Croatian citizens from the entire National Corps under any criteria, as well as the criteria of national membership and the creation of a solution by which such a group is specifically represented by the application of general and equal electoral law, shall be considered as constitutionally unacceptable or contrary to the basic letter and meaning of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the very fundamental concept of the people from which the authority and the authority belongs. Such a solution suggests that there are different constitutional recognitions and recognitions of parts of the people that are reflected in the representation of certain parts of the general and common concept of the people. That's not the case with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The people are one, unique and constitutionally legal, made by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia regardless of their personal characteristics and thus nationality. This is not a colleague of Grba's opinion of HDZ, but of constitutional and legal experts. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63714	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number 2 of the HDZ Representatives Clubs which the applicant does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to Amendment number three of the same club of HDZ representatives. Peja Grbin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63715	The amendment is not accepted. It has already been indicated in the submission of a proposal for accession for amendments to the Constitution that criminal offences should not be further qualified by any political omen. That's why we think it's necessary to put an out-of-date out for all of us, not just for certain serious murders.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63716	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the HDZ Club, honourable representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63717	So this is the issue that led the SDP to constitutional change. This is the question that you didn't even know as a SDP club and now, with the help of the government, formulate to maintain the legality of constitutional validity. What's this about? If the Constitution prescribes the retroactivity of certain legal institutes, which is inadmissible in the rules, it is even worse when entering, and that is said to you by experts so-called. The blankent of the norm that says that by special law today, you will, in six months' time, prescribe some new criminal acts in which the statute of limitations will not apply. It's a violation of fundamental legal principles. This is destroying the principle of legal certainty, the rule of law and the rule of law. You are in violation of the basic principles of the Croatian Constitution and you will not achieve the purpose of not saying that in concrete application ask the judges who deal with such a norm is inapplicable. So you deceived the Croatian public by claiming that you wanted to write something that couldn't be done at all, there is no time to explain to you that someone from antiquity would extract an act that fell into old age 20 years ago, but that was none of your business until now, nor was it of interest to you. But leave the possibility for every political authority to impose new crimes tomorrow that will not be outdated and that these provisions will be applied to them because they are constitutionally and legally inadmissible and violates fundamental legal principles. We know you won't accept it because no argument is enough for you, but we are looking for a vote in this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63718	Please make it clear that Amendment No. 3 is not accepted by the Proposer. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number four of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63719	Amendment... The Croatian Parliament made a decision published in the National Journal No 131/13 within which the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system was required to act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As the amendment comes out of the framework of the provisions of the Proposal for a Draft Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the applicant has already been unable to accept it. However, the proposer points out that the voting method and the number of MPs elected by citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live outside the borders of the state have been arranged exactly in a way to guarantee their representation to those citizens no matter how many citizens voted for them. When this provision was included in the Constitution during the last amendment, the reasoning was: it is proposed that a Croatian citizen without residence in the Republic of Croatia exercise his right to vote at the polls in diplomatic consular offices in the foreign state, and that in elections for the Croatian Parliament they have the right to elect three representatives, thus abandoning the current electoral model in which Croatian citizens without residence in the Republic chose a number of representatives who were dependent on the number of days and votes in the elections in the Republic. Since the circumstances of the 2010 amendment of the Constitution have not changed on this issue, we believe that the amendment in question is not to be accepted for this reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63720	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives, Honored Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63721	I would say, Mr. President, this is the most unfortunate issue of these amendments to the Republic of Croatia. The norm we have proposed to amend was introduced into the Constitution in 2010 at the express request of the ruling and then the opposition parties. You also had a lawyer who talked about it in his performance saying about this point, but failed to say, this norm to take away the previously recognised right of vote from all voters who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia is the result of the blackmail your party and its coalition partners submitted as their proposal and the condition under which they will vote for the amendments to the Constitution for Croatia's entry into the EU. If you hadn't been the norm, and don't talk about names, if it hadn't been for you then you wouldn't have voted for the Constitution and we wouldn't have met all the criteria for EU accession. And it's sad because one minority, this time voters who don't have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, lost the right that she had then in the Constitution that none of you stood up for when she talked about minority rights, but we only took some very typical minorities we advocated. And with this standard, Croatian citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia lost the opportunity to be represented proportionally in the Croatian Parliament. This proposal was to correct this injustice, to allow these people to vote as they had foreseen in the Constitution earlier, and you are now very hypocritically explaining and rejecting it. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63722	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number four of the HDZ Representatives Clubs which the applicant did not accept. Who's in? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 5 of the same Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63723	The amendment was not accepted with the same explanation as Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63724	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives, the honourable representative, Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63725	Dear colleague Grbin, I will try to appeal to your conscience and professional conduct. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that The constitution is even worse than that of the amendment to Article 15, and they are related to what we have been saying is that certain laws are given the rank of constitutional laws and are adopted by procedure for amendments to the Constitution. The Constitution is the highest regulation of a state and deserves to have a special position and also in Parliament when it is adopted or amended. You, with this proposal and this special position of the highest legal act of a state, not to question but to collapse, but not in a way that only prescribes that constitutional laws and the numbering laws are adopted by procedure for amendments to the Constitution. You went not one step further, you went miles away, and you said that all the laws that the parliamentary majority decided on could be passed by procedure for amendments to the Constitution. This led to another impossible situation in the interpretation of our Constitution because you gave higher value to the laws of the lower rank than to the organic laws listed in Article 83. The Constitution and now you prescribe that the Parliament, I will review, the Law on Cemeteries will decide that it will be adopted under the procedure for amending the Constitution, thus becoming a law outside the control of the Constitutional Court, thereby violating the principle of the division of power provided for by our Constitution, denying the possibility of control by the Constitutional Court, and giving the law of peripheral importance more importance than the organic laws provided for by our Constitution. I believe I haven't convinced you, but please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63726	Please state the amendment number 5 of the HDZ Representatives Club which the applicant does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number six of the same club representatives respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63727	The amendment is not accepted. A proposal to determine draft amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in addition to discussions in the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and discussions at the session of the Assembly was held at a public debate at a thematic session called Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. During the public debate, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system received a large number of objections, proposals and opinions from members of the Academic Community, members of civil society and other interested public who went precisely to ensure that the referendum's success is not linked to the number of voters who went to the referendum, but to the number of those who voted in favour of the proposal, all to encourage turnout in the referendum. In view of the above, the applicant did not propose a proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63728	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63729	I will say, Mr. President, for the sake of the Croatian public, you like to say that they are fully informed. The HDZ agrees with the proposal and the change in the way 200 thousand signatures are collected in future for the referendum to be called. We also supported even in one of our proposals for a referendum law that we wrote to extend the deadline to 30 days to collect signatures. But I will explain why we have submitted amendments to this proposal because we hold that certain parts of the Constitution are this way if you want them to verify. These are a whole series of standards concerning the referendum are matter that belongs to me let me tell that freedom the most common law on referendums. It's not a question that should be regulated by the Constitution. So the whole series of questions of the referendum to be carried out, which most need to pass the referendum are the norms that should stand in the referendum law, and the fact that the number of signatures is absolutely necessary and deadlines can be signed by the Constitution. And I'm going to say something about it, and we've introduced a whole series of restrictions on issues that the referendum can't call, you're calling for other countries' practices, and you're telling it incorrectly. It is very limited and to a very narrow circle of issues that referendums do not discuss. You have extended the possibility of banning the referendum to the extent that you prevent citizens from being entitled to direct democracy by the Constitution. That's what we're up against. You cannot take citizens' right to direct democracy by taking away already the largest number of questions that can be said. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63730	Thank you very much. You're looking for a vote. Please state the amendment number 6 of the HDZ Representatives Club which the applicant does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment number 7 of the same club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63731	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for the amendment under No 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63732	I pray on behalf of the applicant's club, the esteemed Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63733	It's a pretty bad result, but I'm on to date 13. It was certainly not the intention of a colleague of the Greeks to read and understand our amendments without due attention, but it was quite easy to refuse this, so I will, with the effort to ask the following, for Amendment 7 which you have refused again, is worth the argument under Amendment 1 concerning the regional organisation of Croatia. The coalition that is now in power has won the election by persuasion, cannot object between the other and the offer of Plan 21 in which you have listed, I would say the main characteristics of the government as you see it and what you will do if you win power. In this Programme 21 there was not a single word about your intention under 1 to change the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. But you can probably understand that you missed it, it's not a very important document you see that we're doing it in seven days. But there was not a word about the different territorial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, and you are on the existing local self-government, local self-government consisting of municipalities and cities, all of which claim to be too many, the area consisting of 21 counties or if you want 20 counties and the City of Zagreb to introduce another new unit of regional self-government that is now called the region. The region can have more forms, and one of them is the political region, I said that before. The political region assumes its own parliament, its own government, its own president and its own legislative initiative, i.e. legislative opportunities laying down the rules of a certain... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63734	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63735	That is why we are against this solution and we are asking for a vote on the amendment. Maybe this one will pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63736	Yes, we would like to make a statement on Amendment 7 of the HDZ Representatives Club which the applicant did not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much, I appreciate that he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 8 of the same club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63737	The amendment is not accepted. Since the applicant has not accepted any of the proposed amendments in order to properly edit the draft amendments to the Constitution, it is not possible to accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63738	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the respected Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63739	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am sorry that those who are fighting for the better life in the Republic of Croatia have not recognized our amendments regarding new costs and the inconspicuous dangers that bring us the regions, but what I have to comment on, and maybe it will help us because we will at least cut something short. The only logical explanation why you do not accept our amendments is this which is now said by the chairman of the Constitution committee because it is a really nomotechnical issue and therefore for Amendments 8 and 9 I assume you will have the same explanation. I won't torture you with my extra shows, I understand they won't accept them, because it's pointless to accept them when you haven't accepted all this before. I won't give up the amendment, but I'm not even asking for a vote because it's totally unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63740	We'll use the Rules of Procedure then. We must declare Amendment 8 which is not accepted by the Proposer because it has not been withdrawn. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Honored representatives of amendment number nine, amended by the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63741	The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reason as Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63742	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63743	It's an excellent explanation. I'm staying with what I said. There's no need to argue any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-12-0.u63744	You're withdrawing the amendment? No, I don't. Please state the amendment number nine. A HDZ representative's club which the applicant does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. That's how we exhausted the list of amendments. Please join the vote. I am voting in favour of the Decision establishing the Draft Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. May I have your attention, please? The draft amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are laid down in the text that, in accordance with the Decisions on Accession and Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament have submitted it. Two. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system will submit a proposal to the Croatian Parliament for an amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Three. This decision and the draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia will be published in the National Journal. And a note. The decision requires a majority of the votes of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament within the meaning of Article 148. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that the majority of votes, 95 votes in favour and 16 votes in favour of the decision-making process, has been proposed. Thank you very much.
