ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36211	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, honourable MPs and respected deputies. You are presented with a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on ensuring the claim of workers in the event of bankruptcy of the employer. Before I go to the text of the law, this institution is very important for workers in Croatia, an institution that ensures that their claims in the event of bankruptcy are realised and we are aware that in many cases, without this agency, workers would not be able to collect their claims. Sometimes in practice, the concepts of who is an employer and who is a worker and what is a salary are misread, for example. considers that a worker who is employed indefinitely is the only worker who can obtain funds from this fund. However, both on the other hand and in the event of bankruptcy, it is sometimes very difficult to determine both property and difficult to determine how it will be possible to realise the demands of the workers themselves. The Agency shall ensure the unpaid salary for the last three months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy or prior to the termination of the working relationship if it has ceased within three months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy up to the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia, which was the minimum wage of 2814 kuna, according to the latest data. We will probably bring a very quick regulation to a meeting of the Government where the minimum wage in Croatia will be higher than that amount. Also, the unpaid salary compensation paid to the employer's burden in the last three months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy or prior to the termination of the working relationship if it ceased within three months before the bankruptcy was opened also provided by the agency. The salary fee for the unused annual vacation on which the worker acquired the right in the calendar year in which the working relationship stopped, the relationship in which the bankruptcy was achieved also provides for the agency. And the severance under the conditions laid down by law of half the maximum amount of the prescribed severance bill, so the maximum amount of the severance fee was determined by the Labour Act, at the level of the 6 average monthly salary paid by the worker within three months prior to the termination of the labour contract. In addition, the Agency shall ensure the payment of the rightful compensation for damages sustained at work or professional illness up to one third of the damage suffered. Who has the right to claim in the event of bankruptcy? A worker who, at the time of the opening of the bankruptcy procedure, was in a working relationship with the employer or stopped working relationship within three months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy, and an exceptional right to pay off the unpaid rightful sentence of damages due to injury to work and occupational illness has a worker regardless of the fact that his employment relationship has ceased. So these are some facts that talk about how important this agency is. Let me just point out before I go over the explanation why we want to change certain parts of this law just a few words about the Agency's business in 2012. Therefore, the financial plan amounts to HRK 68.6 million, out of which 3.4 million were secured for administration and management and 65.2 million for bankruptcy claims. And the funds were used in almost total. When we talk about payments by county, it is clear that those counties that have suffered the most in recession have the largest number of payments, so in Split-Dalmatia County we paid 22 million 798 thousand 282 kuna for 992 workers. Next is the City of Zagreb with 8 million 442 thousand 342 kuna for 590 workers, Međimurska County with 7 million 151 thousand 543 for 536 workers etc. In total, 4031 workers were paid the rights. The highest amounts, payments were for Dalmatia wine, Adriatic stone, Adriachem and MTH factory socks and Transadria d.d. River. This trend continues this year, especially given the bankruptcy of Gredelj so that in the first three months of this year 60 453 479 kunas paid, paid over half, means 34 580 747 refer to Gredelj. We estimate that the funds that are in rebalancing, so in the rebalancing of the Republic of Croatia, we increased what was at the debate yesterday in the Parliament, we increased the funds for the reason that we estimated that the trend of bankruptcy in Croatia would be the same as last year. But given Gredel's bankruptcy, we had to raise funds to the agencies. So the more we want to change this law, so we want to define the terms more precisely, it has proved that some concepts in the law are not sufficiently defined. There is also a discrepancy with the provisions of the bankruptcy law and the legal position of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia and the Administrative Court of Zagreb, and since we are entering the EU, this law does not equalise the positions of domestic and foreign employers. And there are also no specific provisions that would clearly define the handling of certain situations. Therefore, the proposed amendments and the additions to the law specify more precisely the concept of workers in the sense that it is a person employed by the employer as well as a person whose employment relationship has ceased with the employer within 3 months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy, more precisely determining the period for which workers' claims are ensured in such a way that they are entitled to pay, i.e. the remuneration of the sick in the last 3 months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy, i.e. 3 months prior to the termination of the working relationship if they ceased within 3 months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy. More precisely, the level of security rights based on salary and salary compensation shall be determined and the definition laid down in the Minimum Salary Act shall be aligned, where the minimum wage shall be stated to be the minimum monthly gross salary to which the worker belongs in full time. It is also more precise to determine which contributions the Agency has to account for and pay. As contributions to compulsory insurance that are accounted for from the underlying, that is, pension insurance is an integral part of the salary in gross amount, they are already paid, so it is necessary only to calculate and pay the contributions that are calculated on the basis, so health insurance, health protection at work and employment. Furthermore, these amendments to the law are in line with the law in respect of the exercise of the right of members of the management of a company, members of the board of directors, executive directors in such a way that they do not exercise the rights guaranteed by this law, regardless of the time these transactions were carried out. According to the current provision, the members of the administration were an exception which could not exercise the rights of the law but the applicable law did not explicitly provide that the rights of the law could not be exercised by former members of the administration, not only by those members of the administration who were at the time of the opening of the bankruptcy. Although it has been done in practice, the same has been confirmed by the Administrative Court. With regard to the time limit for the submission of a request from a worker for the exercise of the right in the event of bankruptcy of an employer in accordance with the position of the Administrative Court, it is mandatory to take into account the provisions of the bankruptcy law which provide for the delivery and the public statement. Also, this law harmonizes certain statements with the pronunciation of bankruptcy law, the statement of the applicable law when the claim at the test hearing in the bankruptcy proceedings was recognised by the bankruptcy manager and not challenged by any bankruptcy believer was replaced by the expression of the determination of demand. The statement of the applicable law, the decision of the competent court that the bankruptcy proceedings will not be replaced by an express decision on the completion of the bankruptcy proceedings. We are also equating the position of domestic and foreign employer workers with regard to meeting the previous conditions for the launch of the insurance, claim and for the start of the calculation of the deadline for the application for the exercise of the rights laid down in this law. According to the applicable law, it is prescribed for domestic employers that cumulative conditions must be met for the initiation of the procedure and that the bankruptcy procedure is opened, or concluded because there is no property and that the search of workers is being subdued in the bankruptcy procedure. While only the condition that a bankruptcy procedure is opened is laid down for workers of a foreign employer, that is to say, it is concluded because there is no property. Both conditions are now being established for foreign employers. In the same way as for the workers of the home employer, the calculation of the start of the deadline for submission of the foreign employer's application shall be determined. In addition, new provisions on handling are prescribed for more effective implementation of the law, and the same provisions determine the reimbursement of the amounts paid by the Agency in the event that the worker has already been paid for his claims in the bankruptcy procedure, the rights of the worker set out in this law are personal rights and cannot be transferred or inherited, the direct payment of claims on the account of the workers, it was one of the major problems. Only in the case where the bankruptcy procedure is concluded because there is no property and the legal entity has been deleted from the register, so the bankruptcy manager cannot open a special purpose account to accept the payment. So far, it has not been possible that if the company has been liquidated that the assets belonging to the worker are paid to its current account. So with these changes, we make that possible. It is also the obligation of the Agency to establish the transfer of the claim and the takeover of procedural rights for the payment of claims by the competent commercial court and the obligation of the court to establish, correct the table of the investigations examined and deliver to the Agency how the Agency becomes an active participant in the bankruptcy proceedings. So these amendments to the law allow workers' claims to be charged faster and simpler and what I have to say is that the agency is very up-to-date in its work and there are no backlogs for workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36212	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party, work colleague Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36213	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I would first take advantage of the opportunity while the minister is here so that probably because of last night's debate which lasted up to half a hour that employees in the Croatian Parliament are legally allowed 12 hours of rest at 24 hours I appeal that the second time is respected, so that the work is organised rather than that of some of these workers in some way being paid for and based on them in violation of certain legal regulations. But it is good to now return to the very proposal to amend and supplement the law on ensuring the claim of workers in the event of the bankruptcy of the employer that we received in the first reading. I would like to start by saying that with the text offered by the Croatian Labour Party, the work parties agree and have no objections. The proposed amendments are in any case an improvement in the law and it removes certain ambiguities that were present in the application of the law but also offers certain improvements, which is certainly a shift towards a better solution in the law. In particular, I would like to stress that it is positive and good that these changes have no objections from the social partners and social partners in this area and have shown that they accept such an offered solution, which is clear this time for certain changes to agree on these tripartite and bipartite relations with the social partners. We all know it's not good when any company comes into a situation to open up bankruptcy but inevitably it has to come sooner or later on based on those companies that have problems in their business and when it comes out clearly in the first part it's the worst situation, agony to break certain things through workers themselves. When they come into a certain situation to open up bankruptcy to individual workers, it's the last straw of salvation. For some, it is the only source of income because in the last period before the bankruptcy was opened they worked without pay. They didn't have any receipts. Clearly, both they and their families have been brought into a rather difficult situation. When workers are practically and financially exhausted, and there are various cases, but in most cases, when bankruptcy is finally opened and workers report their claims at the hearing itself and they are recognised, then there are some problems with the administration and they are the crucial subject of whether this job will be done in quality and whether workers will quickly get their money and after a long wait, or whether that part of their agony due to not receiving money will in some way be cut short. I must say that, primarily from experience, we know that it depends on the bankruptcy managers because the deadlines and procedures prescribed by law but the resolution of the legal solution is prescribed and related to the completion of the documentation only when it reaches the agency then certain solutions are issued to workers and only after the power of those solutions comes to the payout of workers. The law stipulates that an application for funds was submitted by a worker and therefore I must stress that there were cases that the workers did not do so within the prescribed time limit prescribed by the law and that it happened that these workers were able to lose their rights because they had no one to explain the procedure of their rights and obligations to the law and the bankruptcy manager sometimes did not do that part of the job on their behalf. There are cases that bankruptcy managers sometimes delay the delivery of the necessary documentation which extends the deadlines for issuing a solution and therefore late money that workers are absolutely necessary but in such a situation they themselves are unable to do anything about it. Therefore, the question arises whether all these prescribed bureaucratic procedures and paperwork are needed when all data exist in HZMO databases and in the Register of Commercial Courts and should only allow the Agency to access these data and everything can in some way be simpler, better and more quality solved in the interests of workers. I say this primarily because sometimes we should keep in mind when we change certain laws and when certain changes are acceptable, but try to look for solutions that are better, so that it stays just as in this case not only to make solutions better than to make a certain shift in quality legal solutions. I am saying this because there have been cases where workers had to collect certain documentation themselves in some cases because the bankruptcy manager refused to do so even though the law obliges him to do so because in certain cases there was no bankruptcy mass and he had no place to pay for his work and then he told the workers without any shame that he would not work because he had nothing to charge for even though these same workers had not received their salary for 7 months and were with their families on the verge of social endurance. The bankruptcy manager was just his personal interest, and he didn't care about the worker, and then virtually all the haughtiness of individual bankruptcy managers and the situation they know how to bring the workers into. I therefore urge that certain legal solutions try to find certain changes that should be offered in any case by those solutions that are more quality and that part of the bureaucratic procedure in a way that should be simplified and better quality. It would be necessary to prescribe in the law itself and certain obligations to the bankruptcy managers for certain actions so that they should do so themselves which would in some way commit and not only states that the request must be submitted by the worker and, if the workers have not signed the request, they cannot in practice exercise their rights. There were also certain cases that within a very short period of time an open and closed bankruptcy procedure was established that the company had no property. Although in such cases it is the obligation of the bankruptcy managers to open accounts when the bankruptcy is opened, it was not done and when the application was made to the agency, the agency did not have anywhere to transfer funds when it issued certain solutions. And there, in a way, a certain solution was sought that took a long time for workers to simply get their money. The bankruptcy manager did it however later did not want to do it because he had some part of the legal basis under the pretext that for it no longer had legal powers was the legal person initiated erasing from the register of commercial courts. And certain changes in this law are heading towards correcting that part of the injustice and offering a completely new solution so that in this case the agency can pay the workers back these claims, which is what I am saying from this example and a good solution. It is a good solution that management does not have the right to money from the agency because they are also responsible for why the company ended up in bankruptcy in most cases, and this is somewhere in line with the Financial Business Act for Pre-demand settlements and amendments to the bankruptcy law. The law should allow a faster solution for workers to come to money. And sometimes, the minister also stressed, although their claims are higher in bankruptcy itself, sometimes these coins are the only things in bankruptcy because there are a lot of companies where we own property, there is no bankruptcy mass and no mass from which to secure the other ones their claims and all the rights due to outstanding salaries over the past period are the only ones that get the money from the agency. Finally, when workers come into such a situation, then they really need to look for a better solution to get to the money as soon as possible, because they sometimes borrow money from their friends, neighbors, relatives, and clearly that they wait for them to come back as soon as possible. Sometimes individuals are threatened and executed, and it is clear that the money is very important for them not to come into such a situation, and the executions themselves require additional costs in the indifference in which they find themselves, whether the company does not continue to work or that they eventually continue to exercise their rights at the Employment Service where they would receive compensation. And finally, clearly, the minister here said in the first three months that about 3100 workers had achieved money from the agency with a financial amount of about 37.5 million kuna and 22 companies had been covered during the first three months. Of course there is another question, this is whether and how many applications have been filed in the agency and whether they are waiting in a way, exactly what I was saying that sometimes the completion of the documentation requires a certain amount of time and workers must then wait and are in a very difficult financial situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36214	Thank you very much. On behalf of HNS MPs' club, counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36215	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister with fellow Members, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club this morning very briefly on this Act, as the morning began as the morning of consent, here we from the CNS will agree with the remarks of fellow Tušek that workers in the Croatian Assembly, given how we sometimes work and are denied certain rights. And that's another segment that we MPs should think about when we engage in marathon debates that don't lead anywhere and serve nothing. These people have their families, they have their needs, they have their energy and ultimately they have their rights. So it would be very good of us to question ourselves a little when we decide to approach parliamentary debates that end at half past two in the night. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party, Dr. Tušek expressed his consent to this Act, so when one opposition party bearing such a name shows consent to a law that determines workers' rights in bankruptcy proceedings, then someone who spoke for the opposition and has no God-knows what to say. However, the importance of the law deserves to be commented on. This Law is in fact a new law of 2008 which has been adopted for the sake of harmonisation and with the legal property of the European Union but the novel of one law that is needed in any society which wants to be responsible and fundamentally responsible for both workers and for the protection of their rights. Equally with amendments and some other laws that are more or less directly related to the protection of workers' rights and ensuring payment of outstanding claims, some of the laws that we have amended over the past year and a few days have found mechanisms that further protect workers' rights outside the context of these three months guaranteed by this law which are paid through the work of the mentioned agency. However, in addition to mentioning more clearly defined terms and more clearly defined deadlines in this law mentioned by fellow Minister Tušek, we, in our opening statement, believe that it is good in this debate to notice another necessary thing in order to protect workers' rights and, in addition, the rights of all other creditors and the health of the Croatian economy. What exactly are we thinking about? I'll go back to one of the companies in my neighborhood, from my hometown of Sibenik... which has gone through agony and passes today with the unresolved issue and the end of the bankruptcy process and the collection of workers' claims, or workers' own. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the point is, these workers have claims much bigger than three unpaid salaries. And a series of such bankruptcys have been carried out, ended or even still opened in the Republic of Croatia where the system has functioned so slowly that workers' claims have accumulated significantly more than 3, 4 or 5 unpaid salaries. What we of the Croatian People's Party insist on is that very consistently all existing laws are implemented, whether those who have positive measures taken before the mandate of this Assembly or those brought by our Government in order to increase the discipline in business and better functioning and efficiency of the rule of law. The essence of the protection of labour rights is not only in this law and this guaranteed three-month income, the essence of the protection of workers' rights in our opinion is, in a consistent and effective way, the implementation of all positive rules aimed at detecting business problems, failures in the business of companies, legal persons who employ workers and open the procedure and take action before workers become in a situation where they are not paid 6, 7, 8 or 9 months’ wages. Because as long as the system does not work, and if through the implementation of other, important legal regulations we do not react without spot, when visible signs appear, problems in business and visible signs of non-fulfilment of the elemental obligations towards the believers, then neither the Croatian economy nor even the less Croatian worker will be written well. All these changes that have been introduced and for the sake of clearer interpretation, therefore, changes that have been introduced in the context of terminology. These changes are clear definitions introduced in this Act which we from the Croatian People's Party support, in particular we also believe that a good and fair solution is that in the context of such protection of workers' rights, those responsible for the bad business of society and sometimes for the illegal business of society that often leads to a business breakdown. Finally, the Croatian People's Party Club supports this law and will vote for it during the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36216	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. A colleague of Anna Lovrin's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36217	Thank you very much. So, fellow Baranovic, where you're on the trail, some others who here in the House have been troubled by the debate, will you deny the right of MPs to discuss agenda points? Are you going to determine or someone else perhaps when it is meaningful or unsuspecting as much as and when they are allowed to debate? Your remarks should have been addressed to the President and the Presidency of the Parliament. The HDZ Club asked why the budget rebalancing as one of the most important topics of discussion in this House began to be discussed beyond 3 p.m., and it is known how long the discussions on the budget took place and what reason it was for the Parliament's work not to conclude that it was usual at 7 p.m. and then continues this morning. There's no reason for that. Therefore, the stories of depletion, rights and families of parliamentary deputies that you state are on the side of your ruling position, to arrange it. So equally, there's a lot of debate about who's present at the sittings, who's not present at the sessions, about punishing parliamentary deputies, I absolutely agree. The moment when it is, for example, in the German Parliament, that in 1.1, the exact schedule of the meetings is known then I advocate that any MP who is not present here in the decent working time from 9 to 19 be punished, but certainly you will not do so in a way that you will not prohibit parliamentary representatives from discussing the subject of the agenda because it is according to the Rules of Procedure their not only right but also their duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36218	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36219	I have to tell my colleagues, Lovrin, that it really fascinated me that one of my remarks that was very well-intentioned and very liberal, with full respect for the rights of parliamentary advocates, transformed an exposé so purely political. Namely, I'll start by correcting the incorrect allegations. I wasn't worried about parliamentary representatives, I was worried about the employees of the Croatian Parliament, that's a big difference. They're the ones who are often victims of replicating, with no meaning or direction. Let me tell you, I wasn't talking about bans, nor was I thinking about bans. I'm talking about bans and bans in '91. He clearly showed his opinion. But just as you have the right to exhibit, I have the right to expose myself and I have the right to assess certain debates in a senseless and certain balling of replicas as a politician, and it costs everything, not only these people who work here, but it also costs Croatian taxpayers, people who pay in the state budget and finance the work of this Parliament. It is my opinion and I have no idea that I am proposing any prohibitions and any restrictions, and God forbid anything that would come out of the context of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So don't twist my words. I have appealed to the council's conscience to assess in our discussions and statements whether something meaningful, justifiable, makes sense or just comes down to political exhibitionism and bickering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36220	Replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36221	Thank you very much. My colleague Baranović, namely what you just said, is not true because you are the debates that were conducted first of all yesterday, so I understood it, as debates that do not lead to anything, and I would add whether the laws you bring to anything. Furthermore, remember Waltaire, who in the French Parliament... told one representative your right to speak with respect, and what you're saying disgusts me. So I quote Waltaire, these are not my words. And you bring in the verbal delinquent again as it is appropriate for you and your coalition partners, so that we know how much we can and what we can speak because yesterday the HDSSB, I also understood it as an attack on my party because it was very active and very constructive. It is that the debate has been delayed, but must not talk about budget rebalancing and budgeting and express an opinion until what time. Well, you see, the European Parliament has a year ahead of schedule and not only for plenary sessions but for committees. It is known exactly when it will be, here there is no Nikola Vuljanić here who was an observer along with me, I don't know who else here, that knows all year round date, hour start and plenary sessions and the work of all 20 committees. Therefore, indeed, as Mrs Lovrin said, it is entirely to the wrong address that your remark is addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36222	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36223	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear counterpart Grubisic, I have no idea how to think about a verbal delinquent, especially since I am a member of a party founded in modern Croatian democracy by a woman who had the courage to speak when many of you were silent and were part of the system. So don't pay any respects to HNS for the verbal delinquency because it's really below every level. We're not playing verbal delinquent. The other thing I'm trying to say is, I didn't apostrophe a special, exceptional and explicit debate last night, but I am and I explicitly point to a rappile ball within clubs that last for hours and that don't lead to anything. In the end, we're not playing with verbal delicacy in the CNS, but we're not playing... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36224	And Mladen Novak, replica. ... Comrade Grubisic, allow colleague Novak to show the replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36225	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Baranovic, I understand and believe that you had a good will, that is, a good intention to protect the employees of the Croatian Parliament, but I must agree with my predecessors and that as you called it, the balling of replicas is the result of this kind of Rules of Procedure that we have. When the Rules of Procedure was brought in, we warned that this could go right this way, what just happened. However, I did not answer for the replica for this reason, but for your debate about the law. At one point, you realized that our obligation to do so was likely to protect the rights of both the government and the representatives of the Assembly from the positive regulations. I wouldn't say it's just that, but I think we should change what's proved to be bad in practice, or that when they've obviously found holes in existing laws no matter how good they are. In doing so, I think primarily of the case of Gredell workers who were practically brought to the wall, forced to sign a 50% drop in their claims. I think that the same thing needs to be found first of all by the Government's proposal that the Parliament will eventually develop or make a constructive proposal to prevent such examples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36226	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36227	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I thought it was an obligation for the entire system of all the institutions of the rule of law to carry out effectively positive regulations, because if they are implemented then we will have a much better situation for the health of the Croatian economy, but I am particularly apostrophe in view of this morning's debate and the achievement of the protection of Croatian workers. I stress that we had because of the inefficient functioning of the system a whole series of cases in previous years in which claims were accumulated against Croatian workers. As for my remarks on the protection of the rights of the workers of the Croatian Parliament and the beating of the replicas, you have ultimately indicated in this replica what it is. You mentioned the expression hole in the system. What I'm talking about is the consequence of spite because you've found the opportunity in this Rules of Procedure to consult with the majority, to consult with the leadership of the Parliament, and to hold discussions that can be effectively and correctly conducted in some normal time in marathons that don't make any sense. So it's nothing but the conduct of your int that you want to show that it's not a tribal to change the Rules of Procedure because it's your opinion of what you of course have a completely legitimate right to do. Let us have the right to change the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36228	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36229	Honored vice presidents, ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. So, the subject of our debate this morning is before us the amendments to the Law on the insurance of workers' claims in the event of bankruptcy by the employer. I think that even at the meetings of the committees that discussed this law, it could be seen that this is an example of an amendment and the addition of one law that I will probably expect to be the consent of everyone in Parliament and we have already pointed out on committees that it is both good in fact and that this law is also going into two readings, so if there are any further remarks in terms of improving that we believe that the Government will be open to considering them before the coming of this law, amending and supplementing the law into another reading. In fact, this is also an example of one law, i.e. amendments and additions to this law, are an example in fact of the wishes and needs and the perception that in the application of one law, certain difficulties have been demonstrated in some time, i.e. certain shortcomings, and in fact there is a real will because of the importance of the matter which he is saying is that the remarks that came from different sides, which is another added value to say and that these amendments and additions are therefore respected by the observations that came from one side and from the other unions, on the other hand, have also been shown in the caselaw itself. And what is also important is that it has proved that in certain parts it is not in line with some other laws, and this is actually in one place an opportunity for these perceived deficiencies of the ID to be observed. In fact, it is a law that is extremely important because the Law on the Insurance and Search of Workers in the event of bankruptcy of the employer regulates the special protection of part of the religious claims from the worker’s working relationship in the event of the employer’s bankruptcy. Thus, this law lays down in fact the rights that enjoy protection as well as the conditions and means of protection. And what is important through the law was established, thanks to this law was established and the Agency for the Insurance of Workers' Claims in case of bankruptcy of an employer who is actually extremely important because it is a body that implements that protection under the rules of the general administrative procedure. And I'm saying that in the meantime, certain shortcomings have turned out to be changing and supplementing. I'll just count it briefly, not in detail, because the minister explained all the changes in his opening statement. But it's about going into clarification so far not precisely defined. It is changing due to the current discrepancy with the bankruptcy law, because I have already said certain legal views of the courts show certain shortcomings, so far the unequal situation of workers in domestic and foreign employers has been equated and certain provisions of the so far have not existed and there have been different cases which should then be completed by these amendments to the laws, i.e. to clarify. When we talk about the Law on insurance of workers' claims in the event of bankruptcy, the employer should, of course, always keep in mind, and that is one perception of actually the fastest public, of course, and especially those most affected when bankruptcy occurs because they are also the most vulnerable group, and these are the workers who during that period before the opening of the bankruptcy which is somehow known to be delayed and during that time accumulated unpaid salaries, unpaid contributions and of course bring workers into extremely, extremely difficult social situations. Therefore, bankruptcy occurs as one consequence of incompetence to pay or over-indebted a business entity. And right through this, the Republic of Croatia, within the framework of the State's social protection activities, implements special protection for part of the religious claims of workers and ensures that the part is paid to the burden of the state budget, and the rest of the workers' claims are made in bankruptcy proceedings on the burden of bankruptcy. What we are always trying to say and we believe that this is so that bankruptcy does not have to and can not always be a bad end to one story because it can, but with precise and clearly established rules, allow all ultimately to be satisfied in their denied rights. It's also spoken often, so I think there's also been an observation here today that it takes a lot of documents, that it's a long-term process until you get to your rights, but I have to warn you there's something, so the Agency for Insurance of Workers' Claims in the event of bankruptcy has issued something that I think workers should be familiar with. I hope that if anything else through their union organisations are familiar with a short guide through the process of ensuring workers' claims in the event of an employer's bankruptcy. I've really taken the trouble of reading it, this guide, which in a very simple way can precisely and precisely determine what steps, how and how I can exercise my rights, which is therefore necessary in that kind of previous procedure. And that is why it seems to me that even now when we bring it in, I hope that this law on amendments and additions to the law that this guide will be further refined and very clear in particular when it comes to those most affected by the procedures that were being conducted, or not led before the very opening of the bankruptcy. And we think that in that part of Croatia that is related to helping employers who are in difficulty because of debt, because of the strong claims, and which is why the workers who work with them have made inexplicable situations through a series of legal changes that we have had in the past. And this seems to me to be what was really necessary and I believe that in some way we'll be together, all of us in some way, with any additions and remarks that we have time to make to another reading. So, as a SDP club, of course we support this law because it is a good step, in fact, able workers, primarily workers, who come into a situation where their employer, their company goes into bankruptcy as easily as possible, in an effective, efficient and fast way to exercise their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36230	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36231	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of amendments to the Law on insurance of workers' claims in the event of bankruptcy in the first reading. In fact, these amendments and additions are largely clarifying or improving the text of the existing law. The existing law is from 2008, of course due to the complexity and long-term nature of the procedure for registered and recognised and privileged labour claims resulting from the date on which the bankruptcy was opened, their payment is nevertheless long-term and uncertain due to the length of bankruptcy proceedings and was therefore required in at least one part, as far as possible in view of the budgetary means, to further protect and ensure payment immediately upon recognition of those rights irrespective of the eligibility of the bankruptcy solution. This is, of course, part of social policy, protection from poverty in a way that is quickly and effectively on the burden of the state budget to ensure that part of these achievements and recognised labour claims are provided, and the worker remains free to keep the total amount of his claims on a regular basis in bankruptcy proceedings. As I have said, this basic law that we are now amending and supplementing has been adopted in 2008, and this legislation has been amended by the same law of the same name since 2003, and this has been one of the criteria for compliance with the European acquis in Chapter 19 of social policy and employment, i.e. compliance with the Directive of the EU, which speaks of the need for the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States regarding the protection of employees in the event of insolvency of their employer and the creation of a legislative framework for ensuring the exchange of information with the competent guarantee institutions of the Member States in cases where a particular entity operates in the field of several EU countries. Likewise, the need for horizontal, horizontal alignment with national legislation, i.e. with other legislation, has been demonstrated. What came to my attention by reading the explanation when the law was passed in 2008 as a substitution of the law of 2003, which is that it is necessary to pass a new law in order to clarify the terms, for the sake of harmonisation in application, for the sake of unequal application, for the sake of established case-law, etc. Here, after the next 5 years of applying this 2008 law, the arguments are almost identical in 80%. It also opens a question of the quality of our legal texts here, i.e. I would say nomotechnical skills to sterilize norms so that they are clear and uniformly applicable. And also, in fact, the legislator knows when to pass the law which is the purpose, which is the political objective, and that this political objective clearly translates into the legal text so that it does not need to actually interpret or edit this political purpose in this case the Administrative Court. Here and as we have also said in this law, the types and scope of workers' rights were then established, conditions and procedures for the exercise of rights, the establishment of the Agency's activities as a first-degree body, but as well as the competent authority, the designation of that agency as the competent authority of the Republic of Croatia for the exchange of information. The rights of workers of foreign employers who are these amendments in the right way and are better established and arranged, deadlines have been established, the obligation to open a creditor's credit card account to pay off these workers' claims has been established and the transfer of paid claims and the takeover of all procedural rights from workers, creditors to the agency has been established. And here, as the minister has heard in detail today who said why and how, which is in line with this law and which provisions are more precisely defined. So it's consistent with a bankruptcy law that's mostly termological. What was good to arrange, that the rights of employees of a foreign employer were settled in the same way as the rights of employees of a domestic employer for the reason that they had so far been somewhat stricter for an employee of a domestic legislator, so that was not fair. It was arranged, therefore, to settle a question which has often made it impossible for workers to pay in practice in case the bankruptcy was not carried out, so a legal person was deleted from the court register and as such could not even open a special account. It also established the obligation of the Agency to notify the Court of Justice of the transfer of the claim. There are two provisions that have been amended, which are proposed to be amended by this law, which I would be troublesome here, so I ask the Proposer to take this into consideration until the second reading. The first is the provision of these amendments which now clearly states that, that these workers' rights are personal rights and that they are intolerable. Namely, personal rights are usually rights that are of such nature that no one can use them personally, but they are a person, so they are pointless and uninjurious if they are transmitted. Now I might agree to establish that they are intolerable as rights in terms of legal traffic, trade, etc. These rights, but I am asking questions why would it be intolerable in the event of an inheritance primarily on the heirs of the first order, or on the shortest, narrow family? If it is done here and if the intensity and purpose of this law is to protect the worker from poverty, to provide him with what his right is acquired, so his salary that he has not been paid, and he will have to wait for a long-term bankruptcy procedure, I ask why, in the event of his death in that period, would his children and his wife or husband not be paid for it and such a claim at a minimum? I think that, if the purpose of this law was as I said protection from the poverty of workers, but certainly also those of the people he supports, he is obliged to endure. The second observation was a provision, as the minister said so far, that members of the company's management, members of the board of directors were excluded from the law, had not been defined by the Executive Directors when and during what period it meant for me to read the law so that those persons who managed such companies at the time the company went bankrupt. So in some ways they're responsible for bankruptcy and it's of course okay. However, as we read here from the practice of the administrative court in Zagreb, I do not know how many cases such a verdicts were so that these persons are exempt from the application of this law regardless of when they acted in that capacity. I ask the question what if someone who happened to be a member of the management or executive director at a time when a certain company or company had done excellent business and was then removed, had expired his term or whatever was the ordinary employee of that company and the company after ten years went to blame someone else for bankruptcy, why would a man who is now a regular employee, a worker like everyone else, be denied this right, so I think that this redundancies person who runs the company is rationalizing why it is being denied, because they are alone responsible, which the company is in bankruptcy or business difficulty. Here I am asking the same applicant to consider this and consider that life situations are possible and that this is actually an inequality of employees that someone because they had some duty and regardless of the responsibility for the situation now at the firm to actually be suspended for their rights. I'd also like to say something about the Agency's security and regressive charges. Here's the data from the 2008 bill. The data at that time indicate that at the annual level in the budget approximately 20 million kunas were provided and approximately that much and spent. But the data also suggests that at that time the guarantee body at the time, which was the Fund for Development and Employment, had 65 million unpaid excess claims. This was one of the arguments for the proposal at the time to indicate a new one, to establish a new guarantee throughout the agency, for the reason it was up to now, and that the Fund for Development and Employment was sub-capacitated, occupied by its other businesses, and that was the result of inefficient re-payments. It would be interesting information, here we have heard from the minister that in the budget it was secured to me that 68 million kuna was said but the budget rebalance is that position increased and it now amounts to 122 million kuna. This high amount in the budget, of course, is good for the protection of workers. It is good to provide workers with at least some existential minimum but points to something very bad, which is that in the last year, that is, more and more companies are going bankrupt daily and these needs are increasing dramatically. I repeat it well, for workers to provide funds in the budget for their protection, but they would certainly be far better off if they worked, if they had jobs and if they had not had this minimum wage but also had a regular salary to earn. So it would be interesting to know that the agency, whether it has fulfilled its purpose, we also heard the minister say that the agency is completely up-to-date and that there are no backlogs, so all the demands of the workers for payment have been settled but we would find it interesting that the agency succeeds in the aggressive collection of these claims because we do not forget, so the companies go bankrupt, the property goes for sale, the creditors find themselves. The question is and it would be good information to see if the state budget or the state budget agency cared carefully and whether it charged everything it had as procedurally authorised at the place of the worker and charged from those bankruptcy debtors. Here's what I said. We're gonna support this law in our first reading. I hope that the legislator will consider these several remarks and other changes are actually changes that clarify and improve the existing legal text without fundamental impediments to workers' rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36232	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDSSB Club, colleague Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36233	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The HDSB Club will support this law, among other things, which we really believe is in the current practice other than banks that are sometimes in bankruptcy proceedings, which sometimes during the time I say the company's apparent collapse gave certain suspicious credits, sometimes credits and political decisions that were often made by political decisions, when many companies went bankrupt, by transferring certain obligations to a company where the workers were, and where banks were first charged through mortgages, through their claims, and workers and local self-government units remained without other normal creditors in most cases, without their claims. I am sorry that the first payment order with workers was not entered by the units of local self-government who contributed to many things and helped and workers, but also by not putting companies in a blockade and by not charging their claims so that these companies could survive. At this point, it is a pre-determined settlement which also did not define the possibilities of local self-government units or mayors and mayors entering a grey space by signing these pre-fashion settlements because today-to-morrow would rightly be to sign and release these claims in advance. I will return to this law, and I will not repeat everything my predecessors have repeated, thereby making a contribution to the employees of the Parliament, at the same time appeal to establish the work of the Parliament, to establish the points of the agenda. Here we have 65 of them now and no one in this assembly knows what point tomorrow will be on the agenda or in the afternoon. And that's a fact. And now we can throw that demagogue and talk about how we're as parliamentary representatives and how we should reduce our debates, our replicas. We not only interpret the Rules of Procedure but also read it, we don't kidnap microphones here, we don't kidnap ourselves for the Rules of Procedure as some do when they come from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we simply work in the Rules of Procedure. We warned that this Rules of Procedure was not good and that it was smarter and more prudent to be that old Rules of Procedure where less time went by and I agree that sometimes the replication was excluded for replication, so here we are today with this demagogy no matter who it came from. I'll only open a few Mr. Ministers here a few questions, and I can do that since we've all been called as agents, and you've been a representative as boastful and wasteful. There are certain ideas on how to make those payments, these receipts of MPs even further reduced, and I absolutely agree with that. We can work for free, but let's discuss it at a time not before the local elections when many candidates who choose the easy way put it in front of the media. So my salary as chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Parliamentary Representative is 19 thousand 560 kuna. It also includes a 1500 kuna representative parchment and a fee for a separate life of 1000 kuna. I am not taking travel expenses because I am still in charge of the court and I have filed a complaint with the Supreme Constitutional Court, so I still believe in the Croatian judiciary that similar to some of the defendants I will be released. And I don't consider this an influence on the Croatian judiciary, but my conscience is clear. I am therefore also initiating that this amount of minimum wage, which at this point is 2964, swears that here by the next budget, this amount and that provision relating to the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia is to be increased by almost 80 million kuna of funds to be available to the Agency by the next amendment of the law and, if possible, this budget rebalance. And believing in everything that government representatives and coalition representatives talked about yesterday about better life in Croatia, I believe that based on these stories, we will probably have a large part of unused money in this position that is secured for the payout of workers' claims, that we will no longer have more in Croatia new bankruptcy, that there will be a reduction in the rapid number of unemployed, that there will be an increase in the index of economic production, gross national income, that there will be an increase in imports, that there will be an increase in standard, here I propose on behalf of the HDSSB Club that this will be the amount of non-demagogical but a real amount, and as well as all members of the wasteful and arrogant parliamentary representatives as someone has characterized this Assembly, and among them itself is silent about the fact that this amount of minimum wages will be the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. I also believe that it is necessary and we believe that there is a need to define a clearer and precise question of the members of the administration. It's clear to me that they can't be members of the management that put this company into bankruptcy. However, someone could have been a member of the administration 10, 15 years ago and did not bear virtually any responsibility, most likely removed for political reasons under the system "Halo Godfather, I have one job at the administration and that". I believe that such people should not and should not enter this law, and that is why we feel that it is necessary to define and specify this time more clearly. I absolutely agree with it that they cannot be members of the management that brought the company into bankruptcy and two days ago resigned or removed from the position of the board member and continued their work in the company. This would also be more consistent with the fact that the law itself states that it is in line with the acquis of the European Union, and if we look at it, we look not only at the legal property of the European Union but also at the rights of workers in the European Union, especially at the amount related to bankruptcy rights, then it is apparent that it is several times larger and I am saying so because it already has 1. We are entering the European Union. It is clear to me that the possibilities of the Republic of Croatia at this time, especially financial ones, are not such at this time, but in any case, we should all be determined that this amount of minimum wage in this law is the amount of the average salary paid per employee. Whether it is in the economy or in general in the Republic of Croatia, in this way it would really and, here through the state, to calm down a little bit, here I can wait, therefore, to help workers in this way and further no matter what, what this other part can achieve through bankruptcy proceedings. However, the fact is that in Croatia so far, when the company goes bankrupt, only a bankruptcy manager and banks and no one else can be charged out of this bankruptcy. Here, the HDSSB Club will support this Act but here is the Ministry of Justice that first of all here are the answers to these, I would say a number of questions but also the dilemmas that are related to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36234	Thank you very much. Final word on behalf of the promoter, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36235	Honorable vice presidents, respected MPs and MPs. Well, I'm glad they will, and it's been a long time to expect this law to be supported by all the clubs. I'll take a few words just for the final word and clearly that in that final bill we'll take all those remarks that have been made here and see what we can build into the law. As far as the question is concerned, how successful the agency has been in the collection of its claims, there is clear that the answer is that it is not and that it cannot be successful because then that it should not be the agency because it is simple and because companies that fail have no assets, which cannot be charged, which is nothing to charge for workers' claims. And that was one reason for this agency to be established, and that means that the state budget, that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who pay taxes, who contribute, and all those who contribute to the state budget, will contribute and that workers who go bankrupt will have their salaries. So from 1. 1. 2003 to 31. 12. In 2012, therefore, 30 thousand 126 requests were paid in the nine years of the existence of this agency. In total, 363 million 290,000 337 kuna were paid through the agency. So, huge funds and at the same time the State managed to charge for 67 million 782, 177, meaning only about 20%, so 80% of the funds were transferred from the state budget. And which is, as I said logically, because if it were different then you shouldn't have an agency because workers would simply be charged out of bankruptcy. From request to payment is a legal minimum of 30 days, in those cases where the documentation is arranged, when the bankruptcy procedure is conducted relatively quickly then it is and the request is quickly realised. With us also predicting in this law that in those cases where bankruptcys last long, when the procedure itself is complicated to, regardless of the outcome of the bankruptcy procedure, the agency pays three minimum salaries to workers, simply realizing this social moment of protection of workers, so that we do not wait for the procedure itself and the outcome of bankruptcy. This law is part of the laws that protect and protect workers from poverty. One is a minimum wage which is also a safeguard mechanism that does not allow a worker's minimum wage to be below the poverty threshold. The second is this law, so the Law on ensuring the bankruptcy of workers,...the claims of workers in the event of bankruptcy of the employer. The third mechanism that I hope we will manage to agree with the social partners is the severance fund which would also protect one right of workers, which is that the worker has the right to a decent severance and that it is not subject to the business itself, so whether he goes bankrupt or not. So it is one of the mechanisms that should also protect the dignity and dignity of workers, i.e. to ensure that those claims that the worker has really get. As far as the succession issues are concerned, we will consider the possibility of the claims being inherited, and as far as the members of the administration are concerned, we have the position of an unequivocal ruling of the Administrative Court in Zagreb, whose view of the judges was therefore justified, no matter when you were a member of the administration, that you were then in a more favourable position because of the managerial contracts and what is going on along with that and that you do not enter the part of the worker who has the right to claim. In the meantime, we'll sit down with the High Court to reconsider the issue and if the court's position is that it is, then we'll leave it in the law, if it does change anyway, and we'll see it in another reading. Thank you very much for your constructive discussion, and I hope that we will come very soon with a final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36236	Thank you very much, Minister. We have a replica of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36237	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, you said about the Agency's performance in the re-bursement fee that it's logical that you're not charged because the creditors don't have property, they can't settle claims, etc. I would agree with you in part that this non-payment is 100% of course because the creditors will be the ones who didn't have the property, but then the agency's jobs that are set by law are pointless if you think so. So it certainly is about the claims of workers who are privileged high in payment order and certainly do not end all bankruptcys so that there is absolutely no property. Namely, even in the future, if bankruptcys are, which was carried out in time, so when a creditor is unable to pay more than 60 days, and not when he falls into a state such that his claims are greater than his total assets, but even in that case, the worker is charged before some other creditors. Therefore, it has a foundation and needs to be cared for and the agency must worry about returning from the insolvency debtors what belongs to the state budget. And it shouldn't be so easy to say that they're all over-indebted, that they don't have those assets. She's got it, and she needs to be taken care of. And secondly, here's what I'm glad you're going to do about the inheritance, but as for the members of these administrations at any time and your announcements that you're going to talk to the High Court of Justice, so as they say. I would say that this is a case law according to the current text of the law, but the writer of the law is not the courts, they apply the laws passed by this Croatian Parliament as a legislative body. So if the political decision or our war is made in the law that this law cannot be applied to those who are responsible for this state of society then it will have to be applied to the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36238	Thank you very much. Replication response, Minister Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36239	I'm sorry, Agent Lovrin probably didn't hear the first part of my exposure, so I said that in the last 9 years of 363 million 290 thousand 337 kuna that we paid the workers out of it and returned from bankruptcy to the state budget of 67 million 177 kuna, which means about 20%. I didn't say it was 100% but simply that there was no possibility of a high-level claim being collected because otherwise the agency shouldn't if workers can be charged out of bankruptcy, so this agency was founded with the aim of protecting workers and the percentage itself speaks about how successful it is, so about 20%. Of course, the agency is trying to collect workers' claims from the bankruptcy maximum. And as for the members of the administration, this is the position of the Administrative Court under the current law, therefore they have their own argument as to why they extended it to non-current board members, so they were not members of the administration at the time of bankruptcy but were somewhere else. We will hear their reasons for why such judgments have been made, so we will hear their reasons why they stood on this point and we will agree on our part the arguments and their arguments and we will see how we will resolve in the law to make it very clear so that there is no need for interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36240	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. We move on to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Insurance of job claims in the event of bankruptcy, first reading, P.Z. No. 293. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the insurance of workers' claims in the event of bankruptcy of the employer and 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in? Do you mind? The abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that 102 votes have unanimously reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36242	We're going to decide on the points of the agenda. The first is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Insurance of the Claims of Workers in the case of insolvency, Second Reading, PZ No. 293. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask the representative of the motionary, Deputy Minister of Labour, the Honorable Bozidar Stubelj, to be manifested. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee, which is more specifically governed by Article 2. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the insurance of workers' claims in the event of bankruptcy by the employer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36244	And now we're going to combine points 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fields of Special State Care, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 325, the proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Seven. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on areas of special state care, first reading, PZ No. 274, Proposer of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government 8. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on areas of special state care, first reading, PZ No. 296, Proposer Mladen Novak. You received the motions by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law, i.e. the first reading of the law, shall apply to the law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session, and now we're going to hear the introductions of the legislator. First, on behalf of the legislator whose proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, Mr Jaksa Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36245	Honored vice presidents, distinguished MPs and MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted to the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on areas of special state care with the final draft law, an emergency procedure. This legislative proposal harmonizes the Law on areas of special state care with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Ministry and other central authorities of the State Administration adopted at the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament on 22 March 2013. These laws transfer certain transactions from the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds to the authority of the newly established State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, which begins with its work on 1 May 2013. It is about work related to planning, preparation, organisation and supervision of housing, dealings with resolution in the second degree on housing requirements by renting housing units in the implementation of the housing programme, management and availability of housing units provided for in the rental, implementation of housing programmes, and the collection of rents. Law on areas of special state care NN No. 86/08 and 57/11 identified areas of special state concern and prescribed incentive measures for their recovery and development. Household care as one of the measures is prescribed in Article 8 of that law is carried out through several models of renting a family house or a state-owned apartment, giving construction material for construction, repair, renovation and upgrade of a house or apartment, and giving a family house or apartment, or building land owned. Just to mention that since the entry into force of the Law on the Fields of Special State Care adopted in 2008, more than 9000 families have been taken care of so far. Of course, the total number is much higher when you watch the start of the housing program. The users of the program were refugees, exiles and returnees, Croatian defenders, members of the Croatian Defence Council, persons with special needs, victims of violence and members of their family. This legislative proposal transfers the first-degree administrative procedures in matters of housing from the Ministry of Regional Development, the EU fund to the jurisdiction of the Office of State Administration in Countys and the competent administrative body of the city of Zagreb, and part of the tasks relating to the technical implementation of the purchase, renovation and construction of housing units for the purpose of implementing housing programmes shall be transferred to the responsibility of the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation. In addition to the above, the proposed legal decisions do not change the content and scope of the rights of the beneficiary of housing, but only more precisely the procedures for the exercise of the right. It also enables better planning and implementation of a housing programme of former tenants and persons located in organised accommodation of exiles and refugees, which will be covered by a regional housing programme whose implementation is planned for 2013-2017. The regional housing programme aims to permanently resolve refugees and internally displaced persons and is a joint initiative of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia based on a joint declaration signed by foreign ministers in 2011. For the purpose of realising housing, implementation of the regional housing programme Croatia plans to implement 3 models. One is the construction of residential buildings, the other is the purchase of apartments on the market, and the third is the reconstruction of homes for old and powerless persons. For the categories of persons for whom there is no obligation to provide housing, it shall be realised in accordance with the possibilities of the state budget and the availability of the housing fund, as well as the resolution within a reasonable period of time. This creates assumptions for better quality and professional implementation of the prescribed procedures. The EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, planned to amend the regulatory framework from the delirquent concerning measures in the area of regional development in assisted areas, and to create assumptions for the use of structural funds, will further regulate the administrative area that remains in the responsibility of the ministry itself. First of all, it is thought of the possibility of using structural funds to realise housing programs. The planned effects of the proposed amendments to the applicable Law on areas of special state care are more rational use of State budget and state-owned assets, more efficient, more quality planning, implementation and control of housing measures prescribed by this law. Regarding the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the areas of special state care whose proposal is the Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not to accept this proposal. Therefore, the Committee's proposal was to include the Gatcelese settlement in another group of areas of special state concern. The government, however, disagrees with the proposal since the village of Gacellese is listed on the so-called list. crisis settlements, not on the list of occupied settlements, which was the basis for forming an area of special state concern. Namely, cities, municipalities and settlements included in the first and second groups of areas of special state care were partially or completely occupied during the Homeland War, and were subsequently included in the special care areas of the law of '96. A year. The war-threatening area was declared by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which transferred this authorisation to the former Office for Exiles and Refugees of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Office for Expatriates and Refugees of the Government of the Republic of Croatia declared war-threatening areas, including the category of occupied areas and the category of crisis areas on the initiative of the counties and competent regional offices for exiles and refugees, and with the agreement of the Ministry of Defence. The list of war - threatening areas confirmed that the Gacelles were classified in the list of crisis areas, i.e. they were not occupied during the Homeland War. The same explanation applies to the second amendment, which is proposed by Mladen Novak,... I am sorry about the law, so the proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Areas of Special State Care, proposed by Mladen Novak, which suggests that the village of Komarevo be classified in another group of areas of special state care, as in the case of Gateleza, is also valid for the case of the village of Komarevo. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So the village of Komarevo was classified in the so-called so-called Komarevo. the crisis areas, not the occupied areas, and, following that, with the insight into the Register of endangered areas, it has been confirmed that the so-called Komarevo belongs to the so-called ‘Komarevo’. crisis areas. Next, there is no basis for including Komarevo in areas of special state concern. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36246	Thank you very much. In a law proposed by the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, the chairman of the Committee, Zoran Vinkovic, will explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36247	Don't be afraid, Madam Vice President, I won't speak for 30 minutes. I am not going to these elections for the European Parliament as some do. Here, I will say very briefly that the Committee on Local Self-Government, therefore unanimously accepted the proposal but you must bear in mind that as a committee, we agreed that we would accept all initiatives and allow a parliamentary debate through the draft laws and thus allow discussions in the Croatian Assembly and certain initiatives that are related not only to the Law on the areas of special state care but also to all other laws, i.e. problems or objects which are within the competence of the Committee on Local Self-Government. After the adoption and opinion of the Government, I will say that we are also at the last meeting of the Committee and I will not appear as chairman of the Committee which is related to all these three laws that we have just reached a unanimous conclusion that is related to the need and analysis and revision of the settlements which, according to the legal regulations, fall within the mountainous and mountainous areas and areas of special state care. The members of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government also feel that it is necessary to adopt new laws on mountainous and mountainous areas, but also the new Law on Areas of Specific State Care, taking into account and indeed a very large period of time and a long period of time, taking into account and the facts relating to the adoption of these laws or the basis of these laws. These were occupied areas, so what was related to the Law on Areas of Special State Care, and the only criterion that was placed by units of local self-government in the mountainous and mountainous areas was the number of inhabitants per square kilometre. Therefore, after the Government's opinion on all these three laws and after the debate has been held, and I must mention here that this law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been laid down and different, there are no fellow Saba, different opinions have been made on the position of one of the members of the Committee who considers it necessary from the existing Law on areas of special state care to delete a provision that prescribes a ban on the sale of built buildings over a period of 10 years and a provision that prescribes the payment of excess residential area at the price established at the level of the Ethlon construction price laid down in the Law on socially encouraged housing. So here I would also ask the representatives of the government and the competent ministry to think more about these two initiatives of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Committee members. Therefore, after the debate was held, the Committee decided, by a majority vote of 7 votes in favour and 3 votes against, to propose to the Croatian Parliament, to adopt this Law in amendments to the Law on areas of special state concern, but it also unanimously reached this conclusion. So something more about this case, which is related to the amendment of the laws for the village of Gacellezi, will also be said by a colleague who is also the mayor of Vodice and who has proposed it, and on behalf of the board, since we also discussed the government's opinion in one case and another on this amendment of the law relating to the village of Komarevo, the distinguished representative Mladen Novak said, so here I am finishing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36248	Thank you very much. And the bill proposed by MP Mladen Novak. A colleague, Novak, will explain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36249	Your Honor, deputy deputy, Your Honor, with your associates. The area of special state care has been established by the 2008 Law on the Fields of Specific State Care with the 2011 amendments, although the basic law of, if I am not mistaken in 1996 shows from which we can practically see what was the fundamental intention of this law, i.e. what was the aim of the areas which were primarily affected by the war to be put into office, to allow normal life in these areas. The same law regulates incentive measures for their recovery and development and all with the aim of achieving the more uniform development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia, the promotion of demographic and economic progress, the completion of the reconstruction programme, the return of pre-war population and the permanent housing. The area of special state care is defined in three groups, the first and second groups according to the circumstances resulting from the aggression on the Republic of Croatia, and the third group has been established according to three criteria, the criteria of economic development, the criteria of structural difficulties and the demographic criteria. This proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on the Fields of Special State Care proposes the areas of the second group, so that those who have suffered the consequences of the aggression against the Republic of Croatia join the village of Komarevo, which is an integral part of the City of Sisak. In fact, the town of Sisak is a unit of local self-government that has several settlements in its 35 area that were partially or completely occupied during the Homeland War. The settlements of Blinski Kut, Klobučak, Kletvanci, Hungarians, Old Village and Vurot make up 10% of the city's areas and are thus listed in Article 5(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on areas of special state concern. For those who do not know, although I do not believe that there are such, Komarevo was the last line to defend Sisak, and with the possible fall of Komarov would practically be an open road to Zagreb. All the people of Komarov had the status of exile without exception, so they all had those exile charts, they were all forced to move out of their homes and there it is, and these houses were used for the accommodation of the Croatian Army. It is a rural settlement whose inhabitants of the entire war could not reach their agricultural land, and unfortunately most of that land is still unreachable today because of mines. After the war, that is, since the war on the part of the four inhabitants of Komarev died of mines, two were wounded by the loss of one of the dead in the allegedly demining area. The population of Komarov is still at the initial adoption of this law is practically damaged. Now we have a chance to correct it, and it's up to us whether we want to or not. Otherwise, we will condemn them and that is, colleague Mandic has asked what has been waiting until now. I can't, it's my first term, I can't argue why no one has launched the initiative so far, but I know what the people of Komaraev have been motivated with now, I know primarily that there have already been some initiatives before, why it didn't work out, and I know this is about legalization now. Legalisation costs are drastically higher for residents of that part of Croatia who are not covered by this law. In view of the above, and in the initiative of the Komarevo Local Committee, the addition of Article 5(3) is proposed. The law on areas of special state care in the way that the village Komarevo is placed behind the settlement Klobučak, and outside the settlement Letvanci as one of the settlements occupied during the Homeland War. Otherwise, just as information is still clear, not all the settlements covered by this law were occupied, so it was not an obstacle to classifying them. We do not ask that someone be excused from this, for there must have been a reason to get involved, but this way to punish people who had been expelled from their homes for the first five years, on the other hand, all of them were participants in the Homeland War. They have been practically punished since the beginning and are now paying additionally for political relations, i.e. who is in power in the city, settlement or county, or state. It really doesn't make sense because it's about your citizens. This is not a political move. This is a cry for citizens, the population of Komaraev to be helped. And now another review of the ministry bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36250	My friend, you're explaining your law on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36251	Yes, to explain my law, but it's the same law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36252	Or on behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36253	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36254	You can only consider the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36255	Okay, it's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36256	Replica Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36257	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Novak, I'm surprised too, I certainly know Komarevo, and I'm surprised there was no understanding, I know exactly where he is and what trauma he survived. And in that part, you mentioned the problem of legalization. So, as far as the mosquitoes are concerned, I know and I think the request is justified anyway, but I don't understand how no understanding has been found? And this is why I want to say since you mentioned legalization, certainly also in Komarevo and also in many other environments, legalization is an immensely large problem, and this Law on dealing with illegally built buildings, as it is called, is perceived by citizens on the ground as the Law of Devastation, the law of destruction. And that's where one truly great fear developed in a great deal of citizens. First I can't do it, it won't even succeed, of course, if these and administrative difficulties are great, and now it might happen that in June there will be a simple pressure on these services that simply won't and I don't even know if there's any alternative to how it is put in these circumstances. The other thing is that citizens are not financially possible simply and mainly in these environments that they have suffered. One time they suffered from the collapse, when it was torn down in those wartime circumstances, and now fear suffers, so in other circumstances because they are certainly all interested in legalizing and these are not possible and in that part they should think about these things, but obviously there is no hearing about it, and that is why citizens are upset, they experience frustration.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36258	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36259	Thank you very much. Well, now you've reminded me of something else I was going to skip, not a word, but obviously you should say such things, you should know that. The residents of Komarovo village are extremely revolutionized first because they did not get the status that they definitely belong to and on the other hand the states are also meant across the city and county and the state itself has committed to, say, Roma settlements bear the costs of legalisation of Roma settlements. I don't mind either Roma or Roma allowing the legalisation of Roma settlements if there are normally opportunities to do so there are funds but now it turns out that the people of Komarov who are the host population, whose country this is, now turns out to be twice punished. Which is why I think, now it's in place, I have nothing against any national minority if they can, let them be helped. Make whatever it takes. But it's impossible for the native population to be sort of second-class citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36260	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP Club, colleague Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36261	Dear Madam Vice President, the Deputy Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. As I prepared for this debate today, I remembered the question of my fellow box in the past current hour where he asked the very deputy minister of regional development and EU funds. The question was how far has the ministry signed the care contracts. A fellow box said it himself. I think he said 50 contracts. I think that this figure is inadmissible and that this is precisely one of the reasons why this figure should be increased as noted by Deputy Minister Puljiz, the revision of the requirements that have arrived at the ministry but that one of the reasons and the preparation of this legislative proposal is and we are confident that by accepting this legal proposal that the SDP Club will support will suddenly jump a truly unacceptable number of signatures of housing contracts. Mr. Puliz has presented the greatest number of reasons why this law is passed. I would only mention, therefore, that the issue of housing of former tenants was covered by the implementation of the monitoring process in the process of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU for Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights. Compared to the current regulation of this issue by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2003 The proposed legal solutions represent progress, uniformise the procedure for this category of users in the territory of the Republic of Croatia as well as the establishment of the right in the administrative procedure, include the right to declare legal medicinal products in accordance with the observations of the Ombudsman's office and the views of the competent courts referred to in the caselaw. We are aware that despite good legal solutions such as this that will lead to a more transparent process of making use of the state budget's rationale more effective control and planning conditions for the use of the state-owned housing fund, that despite all this, the main tool for launching more housing will be money. Therefore, the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, which, regardless of the establishment of the State Office for Housing, continues to have all other measures in the area of regional development in assisted areas, has a huge responsibility to use first and foremost the possibility opened to it by these legal solutions, is to provide EU funds for the purpose of housing. Finally, this one problem, also highlighted by counterpart Vinkovic, chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government. In order to list the articles of this bill and to discuss with colleagues who have experience in the care of exiles and all those who have the right to care for housing we have seen that in Article 9 b which therefore defines the right of squares per single person or per family member, that is 35 square squares per single person plus ten square squares per member of the family, the price of buying these apartments, which is 700 euros in special state care areas of the 350 euro, and if this user wants to buy the apartment in cash immediately, is 175 euros per square. In the new proposal for a law, Article 9b states that the excess living area can be purchased in the amount of... of construction established under the Law on Social Encouragement Building, a reduction for the building state of the residential building, amounting to approximately 6 thousand kuna. We at the SDP club believe that this is why applicants are in an unequal position. There are over a thousand requests in the town of Vukovar itself, so the SDP club will submit an amendment to this problem and we are confident that the amendment will be accepted. So that's about this first law. And now for the next two laws. The SDP Club will not support the draft law supplementing the Law on the areas of special state care P.Z. No. 274 where the village of Gacellezi in the area of the town of Vodice would be placed in the area of special state care. I have to admit, knowing that I'm going to have to say this sentence on behalf of the club had a certain remorse because we're all emotionally tied to the war-related areas. And I come from the carlovia county myself, and I know very well what a war is devastated and occupied area of what a problem it is. However, the village of Gacellezi, as it stands in the government's opinion, was not occupied, was on the front line and was hit by war destruction but not occupied, and for this reason it is not included in the list of the first group of areas of special state care, and the list was created by the Office for Exorcists and Refugees of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on proposals by county and competent regional offices for exiles and refugees, and with the agreement of the Ministry of Defence. However, it still does not free me from remorse, but I have made an effort, so I am a little googled as the pages of the city of Vodice say today, and I have found the reason for my calm conscience. In fact, the town of Vodice has 12.5 thousand inhabitants, has a budget of 40.6 million kuna, an index of development of the city of Vodice compared to the RH 91.76%. Well colleagues and colleagues if you think these are the conditions under which the town of Vodice should be assisted area we at the SDP club disagree with because I can list you in dozens and dozens of towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that are thick below the average of the city of Vodice but below 75% of the RH's development index and do not fall into areas of special state concern. If I were as bad as I am then I'd say that this request is related to the local election moment and that this way actually wants to put pressure on the government and take some local points. But there is no reason in the town of Vodice, because last year and this year, some 20 million kuna investments from the Ministry of Regional Development from Croatian Waters were built by sports halls, collectors, municipal infrastructure. So neither by justice nor by law do we believe that the town of Vodice or the village of Gatelezi can enter the first category of settlements of special state care. The SDP Club will not accept the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on the areas of special state care P.Z. No. 296 proposed by Mladen Novak, who is seeking the inclusion of Komarevo in the first category of state care. Legal reasons are the same as for the village of Gacellese. Namely, the village of Komarevo was on the line of separation, on the front line but was not occupied. However, unlike the village of Gacellezi for the village of Komarevo, they should have a keen conscience because it is actually evidence and an indication that all these laws relating to the assisted areas are deeply unfair, that time has buried them deeply and that a whole law has to be re-proposed that will re-categorize settlements that have the right to funding from the state budget. I'm convinced the ministry has such a bill. We have received information that such a bill is being prepared and I am convinced that this new law and the Komarevo settlement that deserves it will be in the field of special state care and that it will replace those settlements that are on that list, and let's say above that are 125% of the RH's development index. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36262	Thank you, too. We have exactly six replicas, first respected colleague Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36263	Thank you very much. Well, I'll start at the end. You said that the village of Komarevo towards the residents of the village of Komarevo was wronged but that you hoped that it would be rectified. We now have a chance to make it right because the legalisation deadline is something to which this amendment of the law is bound. And if we don't do it now, we're waiting for some other time, so we're waiting for these deadlines set by that law to pass, we've practically done nothing. On the other hand, at the debate, we heard that there was an intention on the boards to even end this law as such, and at the end of the day, that information came from your side. As for the first part of your debate when you discussed the Government's proposal, then you pointed out that these changes will allow me not to say more transparently or more quickly at the disposal of the Housing Fund and assigning it. I would now remind Minister Jovanovic of a statement when he was the Sport Act at the debate then he said, see the law is not so bad but the problem was not being implemented. Now I'd answer that, too. There was a possibility here, but it wasn't done according to what it says, there was a legal possibility of house allocation. Otherwise, what would be the reason that in the municipality of Sunja there is a house that, not one, there are more, there is a redemption, which is all clean, legal, paper, there are people who are interested in it and a persistent already long series, a longer period of time coming up for that house, they want to rent, however from APN respond that they are unfortunately not able to satisfy them. Thank you. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36264	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36265	Dear colleague, I didn't say I was hoping, I said that I was convinced that the village of Komarevo will, by a new law that is being prepared in the ministry, enter the assisted areas and thus get help from the state budget that the settlement of course deserves. Because the town of Sisak itself is unfortunately not an example of bright development in the Republic of Croatia. And the whole area, therefore, needs to be my area of assistance in the Republic of Croatia. I would refer here to that part of you about this legalization problem. So there's a whole series of tools at the level of local self-government to get to local committees,... So that I am the city of Sisak freed from the communal contribution, the communal fee reduces the cost of legalization to those inhabitants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for this second law, I personally believe that by setting up the Office of the State Administration for Housing that transparency and award of dwellings will really be made possible and that such problems as they were in Sunja or in Vukovar, which are also addressed in Karlovac in an adequate manner. And that this part of the job has already been done by the ministry through the revision of existing contracts, or proposals that have arrived at the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36266	Thank you. Second replica, the esteemed Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36267	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, fellow Mattelian, for saying that not giving consent to housing is the basis for amending the law. You obviously did not understand me, so the basis of the current and valid law from 2004 to 2011 means that during the HDZ government, about 35,000 families were taken care of, and thus so was the agreement or solution. Of the 15 thousand housing claims, 8 thousand are processed and agreed upon. As for construction material as a form of housing, four thousand seems to me to be, about four thousand consents for packages of construction material. In 2011, only 800 packages were made and in this year it seems to me that I do not know times 2. But considering you've seen the budget rebalancing, a total of 103 million kuna is being downloaded from the Ministry of Regional Development, and out of that 103 million kuna is being taken down for residential care in the area of special state care of 85 million kuna. So most of the funds that are being downloaded in the ministry refer to housing at the PPDS. So it's not a legislative issue, it's a work problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36268	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Mattelian.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36269	A fellow box, so I can agree with you that there has been an impasse in the award of housing rights, and above all for the lack of money that I mentioned in my debate. And I also mentioned that both this legal framework and the fact that we will enter the European Union on 1 July, that the ministry... and the European Union fund opens up the possibility but also the responsibility, therefore, to use structural funds to replace this deficit in the budget and to directly include it in housing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's big money and I'm convinced that the ministry's capacitation will be such that it will take advantage of... funds and that money, therefore, let's turn the saw upside down, not spend our own budget, but spend the money of the European Union on projects like this project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36270	Next replica, respected Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36271	Since I'm going to speak on behalf of the club, I'm going to speak for the club's position. However, we cannot view this, these initiatives submitted by parliamentary deputies exclusively at the moment, therefore, at the moment before the local elections. There may have been a time before one of these, and before time for such an initiative to be proposed. However, how then, I don't think you'll even have the answer to how to verify or characterise legal requirements, here's fellow SDP Pandek, a fellow SDP Zgrebec who are related to the change in the area of municipalities, cities and counties. So for me, this is a legal proposal, a legal legislative proposal, although the government has given a positive opinion on the proposal regardless of the moment of local elections or elections for the European Parliament. And here I have a feeling because these suggestions, in the debate, will be seen whether they are justified or not. I personally believe that they are justified, regardless of the budgets of individual units of local self-government and Vodice and Sisak, how, then, to characterise the government's opinion, which right here when it comes from the opposition, gave a negative opinion. I don't think we're going into politics too much, but here's what we do with one debate, first of all, is we have a good influence on the overall change of both laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36272	The replica matches Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36273	Dear colleague Vinkovic, I can answer that question very simply. Namely, you mixed pears and apples. The demands on the initiative of colleagues Zgrebec and colleagues of Habek are something else. They refer to changes in the borders of cities and municipalities that do not require any cost in the Croatian budget, which is something else compared to including the area in special state care that requires additional material resources and I explained it in my debate. So it's not about the same thing. And the deal was and you know it on our board that any such request and such is the view of Mr. Bauk's ministry that it is even advisable that if there is some reason for the separation of a certain local committee into another municipality or another city, it is even advisable that this proposal be a joint proposal and opposition and positions. Therefore, I would like to point out once again that the legislative proposals of my colleague Zgrebec and my colleagues, Habeka, cannot be mixed with these legal proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36274	We're moving on to the replica of the esteemed colleague Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36275	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Mathelan, I must tell you that the Gatcelezes were occupied from 16 September to 8 October. As far as the pre-election story is concerned, your exposure will best come to me for pre-election purposes and this is a confirmation of work. Thank you and for being me, on the basis of your debate, for being able to come forward and replicate and once again publicly speak and thank all those who help my city and my end. I must say that the Ministry of Regional Development, particularly Vice-President Mr. Greek, has shown great understanding and has given great support to the completion of the largest projects in the city of Vodice and I thank him once again because there have been some crackdowns across the media. With this proposal, we only want to enable the citizens of Gacellez to do what they belong to and for which they have been suspended for years, and what the city of Vodice cannot afford, and these are different benefits also in terms of taxes, cuts and other taxes. I'll stay through my hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36276	It's a match for the esteemed Mattelian.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36277	Here, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you and I for this replica because I can now commend the Government of the Republic of Croatia for showing interest regardless of the political denominator of certain municipalities and cities, so that it grants funds or investments regardless of the political resemblance which was not exactly the case in the previous government. I thank you for that, and I will also use it for pre-election purposes and for the European Parliament, and it will help me best in my local elections because, let's say, I have failed to get that money in my municipality for some other reasons. And as for infrastructure in the village of Gacelleza, once again, you know your own indicators, meaning the budget of $43.5 million per 12.5 thousand I believe that it allows you, meaning the city of Vodice in the village of Gacheleza, to create an infrastructure that has been built at European level. It's your business, and it's not a matter of national level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36278	Next line, dear Joseph Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36279	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Mateljan, we pass this law for technical reasons because before that we have passed a law that we have established the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing. Now there is one problem, the returnee community of Croatia also opposes this bill for several reasons. A lot of efforts have been made to bring this issue down to one ministry, so far at the Ministry of Regional Development and European Union funds. The current draft laws and issues will be dealt with by the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, Offices of State Administration, Local Administration and Self-Government and APN. And now an interesting question, the problem of donations of construction material under the new bill, belongs to the Real estate transport and real estate intervention agency. So what's the problem with the donation of construction material to the agency and how it's going to solve these issues if the agency itself has been dealing with the purchase of property, nothing else. So these are issues that are now put into question that this law will really solve the real problem of housing, and we see that budget rebalancing has reduced resources, and according to the 2012 reports, nothing has been done in the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36280	The replica matches Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36281	I will only point out once that, according to us, this legal framework enables, first and foremost, the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds to concentrate on what is most important, which is getting money. So withdrawing the funds that are most important to the problem of housing. I point out once again, so it is also the responsibility of the ministry to attract funds primarily of structural funds and to direct that money into housing. So that is, for me and the purpose of this bill, except for the harmonisation itself, and that way we will get a lot more funding than these millions and several thousand kunas that are not enough for quality housing. Let's be honest, so they really aren't enough, and that money needs to be enriched exactly... money from structural funds that nobody talks about when they talk about local self-government or when they talk about regional self-government, nobody really wonders what local self-government and regional self-government can do to make them stay out of the ministry all the time but do something to attract that money to their local self-government units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36282	The last line is Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36283	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Matteljan, I will refer to that part of my town and the village of Komarevo. I'm not happy that you have a guilty conscience, just when you said it, I was glad that you would accept this, but you said further in your debate that you were convinced, almost 100% convinced that the village of Komarevo as part of the town of Sisak would be included in the new law in this area. So if you are so convinced, if you have knowledge that we do not have, then why not now, and at this point we are discussing this law, the amendments and additions to the law at this point was precisely an opportunity for which counterpart Novak stated and why the Komarevo local committee has now launched this initiative was a good reason to change here one word only and to include the Komarevo settlement in another group of areas of special state care.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36284	The replica matches Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36285	Dear colleague, it's not that simple. In fact, if we accept the reasons of Komaraev it is possible that we would already have 50 requests of equal quality at the next session of the board, they have the same condition as the Komarevo settlement and we would actually have to solve something on the board that needs to be dealt with by the law. So this is not a question that will be resolved on boards in a partial way so that you or I who have influence and who can and who are closer, or who are members of this House and who have the opportunity to put it on the board. So it's not a question that needs to be addressed by the Committee on Local Self-Government, but it's a question that must be fully resolved by law. Only for that reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36286	We continue to discuss clubs, so I invite respected Zoran Vinkovic to present the positions of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36287	Thank you. It is indeed a HDSSB club, not a folklore association with the fact that I do not intend to offend cultural and artistic societies because they preserve tradition, play a positive role in Croatian society. The HDSB Club will open several issues here that are related to the areas of special state care and I can responsibly argue that, but above all, thank all the members of the Committee on Local Self-Government, and I hope that this will continue to be a practice of this committee that we will unanimously refer to in the parliamentary procedure proposals relating to the laws under the responsibility of the Committee on Local Self-Government, and then normal solutions in accordance with the opinions of the Government and the debates in the Assembly on the basis of our own views normally and on the basis of political views of political parties. I, on behalf of the HDSSB Club, responsibly argue that this law, especially the Law on areas of special state care, but also another law that is related to me would say life because we ladies and gentlemen representatives live in two Croatias – one rich and one poor. When I tell a rich man I speak conditionally to a rich man, because compared to the EU, he's not that rich. However, this undeveloped part of Croatia is indeed rich and developed. Therefore, this second law, which is also related to the Law on areas of special state care, is also the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas. And here I am, on behalf of the HDSSB Club, expressing, therefore, dissatisfaction with the fact that one of the first proposals that entered the parliamentary procedure was just an amendment to the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, which is related to the status of the town of Novi Vinodolski, and we see in this agenda is somewhere sixty-two, fifty-eightth or I don't know what point of the agenda. But mostly at the end of that agenda. I would like to remind you that in that law, the only criterion where the Government adopted an opinion under the law of the existing Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, and this issue is closely related to the Law on Areas of Special State Care and the only criterion there is the number of inhabitants per square kilometre. Here is the only criterion in the law to enter the Law on areas of special state care you gave at the time of the Homeland War you were in occupied part of Croatia. And now you have a lot of settlements that have been occupied for five days, five days under Croatian authority, were on that front line of the front line where many of these settlements practically deserve to be in the field of special state care. But at this point because since the Homeland War, since the end of the war from the liberating and magnificent action "Storm" has been 18 years, it is obvious that today in the Republic of Croatia for criteria for the Law on the Fields of Special State Care should also enter some other criteria. It's primarily a degree of development. That is why I say we live in two Croatians – one rich and one poor. With the development of tourism, we have settlements, municipalities, cities of between 3,000 and 10,000 inhabitants who have multiple higher budgets than local self-government units, towns in Slavonia and Baranja, which have 30 000 inhabitants. And it's not about who's out there in power, which is the political option in power. These budgets can be changed in a statistical error and up to 5% not only thanks to these Linic tax reforms which additionally took about 30% of the funds to local self-government, not on purpose, but above all because it had not been in mind that it was playing with income tax by exchanging all that inside it could not bring an increase in these funds, and if we take also a drop in industrial production, GDP decline, a reduction and far less pay in those areas that fall within this undeveloped part of Croatia, if you take the payment power of the population, and here in Vukovar-Srijem County, it is 3300 euros per capita, therefore annually. There are 16000 euros in Istria. So, I mention Istria as one of the developed and perhaps most developed part of Croatia which had not been fortunately had and did not go through what many regions have at this very moment been left behind and the poorest parts of Croatia also had their function in the Homeland War. Not to mention the City of Zagreb, which has about 19,000 euros in paid power per capita. Luxembourg has 97,000 euros per capita, and it is likely that every person in Croatia can reach that payment power of 97,000 euros. So these should be the criteria of the new law and the HDSSB club is initiating an amendment to this whole law. Just as it initiates the amendment of the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. Because the hand on the heart today is almost 90% of Croatia, Croatian territory is and should be counted in the Law on areas of special state concern. And there won't be any Ministry of Regional Development. It may be just a bright example that should not be praised very much in this European Parliament campaign because these are the signed contracts, which are not signed, I am talking about the town of Vodice. These are the obligations arising from earlier governments. So, no Ministry of Regional Development, no funds will be able to compensate for the state of development in Croatia, but it is fiscal decentralisation of Deputy Minister. Because if it is, and we now have the Ministry of Regional Development for as long and as many years, we have had the Regional Development Fund, so why so much underdevelopment and diversity in the degree of development in Croatia? I will return to this law, first of all, wishing that indeed this is when we from Slavonia, and here are those from undeveloped parts of Croatia, Dalmatian mountain, individual islands, come here to Zagreb, we know from Slavonia when we now come to these new collection houses that are probably made for this IKEA, and we come before Rugvica and we just say that they don't put a sign on us yet welcome to Croatia. Because Croatia has obviously forgotten Slavonia and Baranja and all of Slavonia and Baranja is an area of special state concern, at least it should be. All municipalities and all cities, can only exclude Osijek as a large city that has around somewhere with decentralised funds somewhere around half a billion kuna budget, and the city of Djakovo with 30,000 inhabitants has some original about 40 million kunas. This is not enough for any smart investment, and from the Regional Development Fund, regardless of what one exception confirms, the rule will be very difficult for you to extract certain funds you can even sign a contract. So I have signed the EIB 2 with the Ministry of Regional Development and Cobankovic and Pankretic, and I guess now Greece will sign the contract annex, but there is no money. There are no 2 million kunas because Vinkovic obviously wasn't like him at the time, and he probably wasn't. There is also the European Commission's position on the establishment of this agency. Yesterday, Minister Linic spoke of efficiency, saying that because of efficiency or inefficientness in the reconstruction, the funds for 86.5 million kuna in the rebalancing of the state budget were reduced. So that 86.5 million isn't just a number and a number. Behind these signs are the fates of numerous families and returnees and victims of the Homeland War. There is a question of what it is with the fact that no funds are provided in the state budget for the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing. Here, these two examples clearly show the government's great coordination in a narrow sense and competent ministries. So I fear that a new law aimed exclusively at the Ministry of Regional Development and the entry of certain areas, supported areas and responsiblely argue that 90% of Croatia must learn in these areas, that fiscal decentralisation must be carried out in Croatia, that it is embarrassing that we are centralized as the former Soviet Union, that in Croatia we are obviously only KGB, Beriya, because all the funds, 97% of the funds end up in the state budget, only 3%, even Schuker was better, were then 96, and 92.8%, even Schuker as Minister. I'm talking about funds being poured into local self-government units and the state budget. 3% including the City of Zagreb and how any area, regionally, units of local self-government, municipalities where you have no developed tourism, where Czechs, Germans, Poles, Australians will not come, etc. where you can't charge a tourist tax, where you don't have accommodation facilities and hotels, where you don't have the Adriatic Sea and the Ministry of Tourism 99% uses means to promote only Adriatic tourism, not continental tourism. You have a replica, so call me back, so it says in a strategy that's the same about 58th point of the agenda, and the season begins. The pre-season has long begun. So, to conclude, having in mind and opposed the community of exiles and returnees of the HDSSB club, but also the issue of overall efficiency and non-intentional and government and ministry to move towards radical changes to the amendments to this law because A, P, P, N will not launch nor launch regional development, nor will the ministry do so because the funds have been reduced in the Ministry of Regional Development, the funds in the rebalancing of the state budget have been reduced, not increased to equalise this injustice. The HDSB club will be abstentioned by this law, and will therefore support these two initiatives that are related to Komarevo and Gacellez. One sentence to Agent Novak, if it weren't for Komareva, might have been a really free trip to Zagreb, but if it hadn't been for Đakova and Slavonia, Zagreb and Vienna would have fallen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36288	They're following the replicas. First respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36289	Thank you very much, Vice President. Col. Vinkovic, you rightly warned about the question of the criteria when it comes to the work of this government and you said that you should only respect the criteria and that everything would be clear. But then you mentioned a mountainous mountainous mountainous area, i.e. This law, which is the 53rd point, has been one 6, 7 months and why this cannot be discussed. why the Government does not respect the criteria. He does not respect the law because I find it "politically" inappropriate, because it is there because it refers to the City of Novi Vinodolski where HDZ holds power. And to make things worse and one of our parliamentary deputies wanted to be mayor of the city, and it comes from the SDP, and of course, in that situation, it's best that we don't even discuss this law, that we don't have a position even though the figures are clear. The city has so many inhabitants and the only criterion you've talked about is the number of inhabitants that allows it to become a mountainous mountainous area. That in this way, using the possibility of this law in its budget, there is still additional funding. However, this government does not want to give him this as well as these two settlements where in Sisak HDZ is in power, where in Vodice HDZ is in power, it is the only criterion, all other explanations that have nothing to do with anything. And I said the reason, because someone wanted to be mayor too. The SDP is inconsistencies here, i.e. She's saying that they work for everyone, and not just for their own, it's basically working for their own, not for everyone. And that should be said once, because it's a shame that we're pulling this bill six, seven months on the agenda and we can't discuss it and it's very simple. And then it's not controversial, let's say a census in Vukovar when a Cyrillic is to be introduced, But it's a controversial census when it comes to giving someone the status of a mountain-mounted area, and then we find 17 reasons why we can't give it to them. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36290	This replica will be answered by counterpart Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36291	Turn it off, but I'm not the Tanjug to stop me or the Reuters. But in any case, I agree with you. So, I was also on the board, as is called this where we should sue ourselves if something is not related to the Rules of Procedure, or to the Committee of Law, where the Government's opinion has also arrived and where it is except for one member, that I must say to this committee that opposes such decision-making, that committee, therefore which should protect and monitor the laws of the Government which says that, apart from the law, I am talking about the case of the New Vinodolski, that there are other criteria that are not written in the law. Now, I don't know who wanted to be mayor of New Vinodolski, who else wants to, but I think the citizens of New Vinodolski will decide, as will the citizens of Đakova. With me being able to say, the one in Djakov who has a chance and who doesn't stand a chance. So, there are these, so I would say, politicians like this in 2 weeks, and I'm thinking about you from HDZ who left this tambur playing, and I'm going to do politics, but they don't stand a chance because there's no way against Vinkovic in Djakov, but what I want to say is that the government of the Republic of Croatia respects the laws passed by this Croatian Parliament and that the only criterion of automation is that the city of Novi Vinodolski must be in mountainous areas because it has 19.23 inhabitants per square kilometre. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36292	Before we continue with the replicas. I will read the notice of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. With regard to the phonogram of the eighth session of the Croatian Parliament of 10 April 2013, it is clear that it is in accordance with the provisions of Article 211a(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Representative Dinko Buric, announced that the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system would be asked to give an opinion on the infringement of Article 110, 184(2) and 216. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have been prescribed that the request must be submitted to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system in writing and reasoned within 24 hours of the execution of the action subject to the request. Since MP Dinko Buric did not submit the request in question within such a specified period as was established in the review of the video of the transmission of the eighth session of the Croatian Parliament of 10 April 2013 in accordance with the provisions of Article 211(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, he lost the right to speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament until the end of the eighth session of the Croatian Parliament. Chairman of the Peja Grbin Committee. We'll continue with the replicas. Why are you throwing a colleague to Vinkovic? [[Agreement: Thank you for the information on behalf of the club.]] And it's important that you know how to use the rules of procedure, your club. [[/Intruding Vinkovic: I do not throw, thank you. It was so important that the whole of Croatia knew.]] Stephen Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36293	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Vinkovic, I am pleased that you respect and respect cultural artistic societies because they cherish our true values and should really respect that. Of course, it requires and certain support, materially whether cultural artistic societies, all of course it belongs to the burden of units of local self-government because we see that it's just worse and there's no such hearing anymore. But good about this cultural work since you spoke of this part of the Law I agree with you that these mountainous mountainous areas have special difficulties in life and in all other difficulties but certainly those who have survived war destruction and in that part we agree but there are also many environments in ours that could also meet the criteria of the very part where you spoke. Mostly rural areas, mainly those dealing with agriculture because of their relations with agriculture. Because of their difficult condition, they are surely in immense difficulty, and they will surely have a hard time surviving. In that part of yesterday's budget rebalance speaks in favour. When the finance minister says that agriculture has not survived, support will not be reduced, so the minister said less, the support will not be fully paid. So that's what he's saying, without talking about floods that have actually done wonders in many areas, and at the water and flood protection position, they've done immense damage. And in this work certainly when it comes to the even development of Croatia, I think there is no r of even development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36294	In reply, esteemed Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36295	There is a respected colleague Milinkovic, I come from Đakov, the heart of Slavonia, the city of Đakovske vezova, Storsmayer's cathedral, the city of those Lipipans, and I have in my blood to keep tradition and to help and these cultural artistic societies, and even tamburasses, regardless of whether some have run for mayoral candidates. But they don't stand a chance. They may sing better than I do, but I'm better at politics. But I absolutely agree with you. And that is what I argued on behalf of the club that 90% of Croatia at this time unfortunately did not bring about this, but above all Croatian government policy was created by two Croatians, one rich in the European frameworks it is not rich but in the Croatian framework it is extremely rich compared to 90% of the Republic, the territory of the Republic of Croatia and therefore we are in favour of amending this whole law. Not only the law on special state care but also on mountainous mountainous areas, as other criteria should apply today. It's a degree of underdevelopment. It can also be who was occupied during the Homeland War. But these criteria have to expand, it's been twenty years. And as for the Rules of Procedure, I still don't know which is valid, this minor published in the NN or this Lekin not published in the NN and I don't want to be kidnapped with either the Prime Minister or the President of the Parliament or the Vice-President of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36296	Next replica, the esteemed Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36297	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your colleague Vinkovic will present to you the bill for the election campaign you are campaigning on, you are not afraid of it. No, I don't. You said this government took local self-government 30%. For your information, information to the Croatian public, this government has not taken a single kuna to local self-government and the HDZ government is 2010. She took 800 million kunas to local self-government by changing income tax rates and decapitated local self-government as a chicken for a corpse that is information for you and for the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36298	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36299	Thank you. I'm glad to see that you're coming from the political option that I once belonged to, so I've been talking here for all 20 years about decentralisation, so at the time I belonged to social democracy. Now I am a socialist, unlike all of you who have gone to the neoliberal, that we understand each other because what you are doing to Croatia is not made by the Social Democrats but by the neoliberals. But that's another story. As for the campaign bill in the Croatian Parliament, so what are we going to look at here and fill our crosses or we will run politics and discuss politics. As for that time, HDZ was that profit tax and it was not a good solution to go to the company headquarters because all the headquarters of large companies were in Zagreb. The only one profited from the city of Zagreb. However, HDZ but I also argue in agreement with the SDP who then voted in favour of the law, except for me who then debated in the Croatian Parliament, you can look at the phonograms and see who voted to stop Milan Bandic is either Rajko or Bero will not stop him, then that tax on profits has been transferred exclusively to the state budget which Mr Schuker knows who opposed it and said that the profit tax must be the income of local self-government, whether it is a fund that will be divided by the head of the population or where it is achieved etc. That's what I'm saying right now for VAT, is we don't have to go to Austria, Germany. We can go to neighbouring BiH and see that part of the VAT goes to local self-government, and here everything is centralized, even public procurement from the Croatian forests, so you must seek the opinion of the Director-General to obtain toilet paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36300	The last replica in the esteemed Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36301	Dear counterpart Vinkovic, you supported the initiative that the Gacelleses and Komarevo should join the area of special state concern and thus become a politician because they say it is politics. But it's not politics, say, when it comes to real estate tax, and when it's said, we're going to discuss that tax after local elections because it could take away our political points ahead of local elections if we open a debate or don't let God make some decisions, it's not politics. Let's say when we talked about it last year before the end of the year about the budget and when we said there would be no growth of 1.8% and we at the Labour Club, but also many experts who said that there would be 0.7, 0.8 maximum growth then we were politicians. Yesterday when we talked about that we are against the privatisation of HPB we are also populists because Mr. Linic said there are no 800 million kunas for the recovery of the bank or for the recapitalisation of the bank so that we can reduce interest. However, when I said last night that citizens began to report that they had invested 7 billion kuna in banks in the last year that they would capitalise on the HPB only to remain in the hands of the Croatian state and Croatian citizens, there was no response. So please don't join the army of politicians and demagogues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36302	And this replica corresponds to Zoran Vinkovic. Thank you. Now the position of the SDSS club will be presented by the respected representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36304	Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. First, today's debate is a united debate, this very important three legal texts, and it would have been good if, in particular, this Law on areas of special state care had been obtained in a kind of refined form, and that it had been in some way no-technically arranged would have made this matter much more transparent and accessible for analysis. But what's there is. I think, and you all think, I suppose you're all sharing that opinion that this is a very serious topic, the suggestion is to go by emergency procedure, into one reading. And in any case, by its weight, this could be discussed one more time. However, given the circumstances I am going to talk about and given the fact that it has been a long time, it has passed since the realization of the jobs that should have been completed in accordance with these legal texts and this has not been done, we will simply be in a way, in a way we will have to accept this legal text on this proposed form with our two amendments that I will talk about later. Because we can't afford to stop the whole process with some kind of non-acceptation of this legal text, we're talking about a law on areas of special state care. The facts say that in 2012 we spent all this stuff on some kind of administration, that we analyzed the problem, that we were controlling the priority lists, etc., etc. In the end, Mr. Deputy Minister also confirmed it here yesterday. When it comes to one of the colleagues, what were the effects of this whole process in 2012. Now in 2013, we came to the 5th month, we're doing the construction of a new organ, so a new body that needs to be involved in this business. In view of the dynamics we have given ourselves, given the fact that this Office, the Office of Reconstruction and Housing, has not yet been registered, that we have not appointed or appointed the executives to lead this entire procedure, the organisation of the office. In view of the deadlines set in the law itself for the adoption of organisational acts, regulations, etc., we doubt that by the end of this year we will have completed some significant part of the work related to reconstruction, housing and the whole problem. Confirmation of this is also yesterday's position as Minister of Finance, which is on many issues regarding the depravation of the 86.5 million kuna from the position we are now talking about very clearly, we do not expect in view of the organisational problems that this job will end by 2013, and so for now we are temporarily taking from that position this means, if we need to return them, which is technically very, very questionable, because of course, once the considerable funds are recovered in a particular position, it is difficult to restore them. Therefore, for this reason we do not want to stop the application of this law. Otherwise I say, the State Administration Office has one very serious job ahead of it, no matter how we look at it, it needs to end up somewhere else about a thousand 213 housing claims in the PPDS, two thousand requests outside of the PPDS, a thousand 280 requests for the purchase of the apartment, somewhere about 6 hundred demands for rebuilding the house. It's a huge job. And that office should do it and start doing it as soon as possible. It is not good if we are entering the European Union and in 2013 we still have people who do not have a set roof over their heads. It is not good that we are still entering, on the threshold of joining the European Union we have children who are studying in Grazac, going to primary school and learning by candlelight. So these are some things we shouldn't have allowed ourselves. Now something more about the legal text itself,... from the whole of this law is therefore the adaptation of the old legal proposal, i.e. the legal text to the new concept. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The concept where we're going to organize our business in a way that we have a state administration office, that is, a renovation and housing office, we have organized services in state offices in the county, we have APN, we have local self-government. For some, it seems to be something that isn't effective, and for some, it seems to break one concept of the previous one. However, there are all the good, of course, and good and positive as well as discussional sides. So I'm going to say something about these positive and negative sides, the implications of this law. First, this way, in this way, we think there's going to be a pooling of the database, the database will be centralized, which is very important to us, so additional quality. We think there's going to be a serious job in one place and it's going to be a greater interest in updating these jobs in such a orderly way. What is good is taken over in the end of Article 23 is said by all employees who have worked on these jobs so far, therefore, people who are in trouble, who are professionally verifiable both in the state administration and in the APN. It's a good thing it's built, which is a double decision being established, so a second-degree body will be an office as a body. And we think that it will solve administrative procedures more promptically, second-degree administrative procedures than it has ever been within the ministry. We think it's good because it remains defined in law and control by the Ministry of Regional Development, because it gives an opinion on the annual housing plans proposed by the office and that is regulated in Article 9. So that's something that's good in this law. In any case, too long deadlines for the establishment and adoption of sublaws 60 days plus 30 days and now we've already entered in 5 months, so it's a de facto question whether this office will function in the right way this year, that's Article 22. We think it's an insane law with sublegals. Such a serious topic should not be exaggerated by sublegal acts, certain things should be as clear as the criteria that need to be defined by law more clearly. The validity of the documents shall be bound by a duration of 6 months. We think that this deadline should be extended to 12 million months because if the requirements are submitted from year to year then it would be logical for these documents to be valid even after 12 months or up to 12 months, that 6 months is too short. What is not good has been erased the possibility of temporary housing. We have an example of Vukovar, which has already selected contractors for the rehabilitation of certain residential buildings where returnees live, and those buildings are seriously damaged. And so since the living buildings are unable to access the recovery of these buildings and time is lost, and at the same time we have empty facilities where they could temporarily be settled until the end of that recovery, but it should be legally prescribed as a model. It is not good that it is also the status of the householder, so the category of former tenants is again determined by some government regulation, we return to the beginning and the matter is being extended again, the time is running out, and certain categories will come for some revision which we do not think is good in terms of trust in the legal system. It is not good that the implementation of the list of priorities is linked to the current budgets, i.e. the change in the application of the list. It's also one thing that puts unrest into the category of people who compete for certain lists. And the key thing for us is the two amendments that we have submitted, it is an amendment to Article 12 of this bill, where we are asking in that amendment to delete the complete paragraph 4. For what? So in the proposal of the Proposer, it is correctly said to delete the deadline, that 30-day deadline for the delivery of the final report by the supervisory engineer in the management body, etc., which we think is, of course, good, where the user undertakes to move in after that report within 30 days. If he doesn't move in, then he stays in some sort of state, sanctions of ownership restrictions are withdrawn. So it's erased and it's correct. However, in the second part of you have still one very controversial fact, which is that it remains a restriction on the right of ownership where it must reside in a restored private house for at least 10 years, otherwise it cannot, it cannot be estranged over the course of those 10 years, it cannot be sold. We don't think that's good, we think it's a matter of private property first of all, of restoring private property. The people's private house is ruined, they've already paid the price, now their house is being restored, they can't handle it according to the principle of inviolability of private property. So they've been punished twice, twice cut off. In addition, we think that this makes people necessarily apply with a residence in that building. We think that's how we limit the freedom of movement of people. Therefore, in order for this problem to be fully resolved in full quality, we propose to delete the entire paragraph 4. In Article 21, we propose that paragraph 2 be deleted. Therefore, because the applicant here says that applicants for outstanding housing claims included in the 2013 priority lists have the possibility to complete the applications submitted by 31 March 2014. We think it's unnecessary. If, by the date of entry into force of this law, someone was in a certain legal situation and had certain valid documents, had a position on the list of priorities, the list must be respected, and new situations should take effect with the date of entry into force of this law. So let's not force people who have already made efforts and collected certain documents under the applicable law to do this thing again now and to reassemble some kind of document supplement by next year. Is that how we prejudge and the fact that we are not going to solve this year's list of priorities that we've formed? And in conclusion, we in the SDSS think it's a reconstruction and housing that they play a triple role as a category. First of all, it is one property-legal category, and then a social category because living today without electricity and without a roof above the head is primarily a social category, having unsettled property relations and unreturned own property is an property-legal category. The other thing, it's also an economic category. Let us not forget that the reconstruction meant the engagement of a construction operation in local self-government on the ground and that many people worked, earning wages while being engaged in the reconstruction process. Also, the last thing we obviously forgot, the whole thing, the whole job was one of our obligations to the European Union. This was one of the key closure cards of chapter 23 when we set ourselves some of our action plans as a serious state, which we will respect and therefore give us a positive opinion. So let's keep track of this seriousness and this whole business, except for this legal norm, and let's give the effect, so let's finish the job in rebuilding housing in the way it's supposed to be done. But I'm not going to talk here about the category of purchases of former tenants' housing rights, but I'm just going to, so where is the totally unregulated sphere, where we have apartments outside the PPDS by one regime are sold, within the PPDS by three regimes. There's general chaos, that thing needs to be standardized but the question of the economic category is whether someone calculated how much the budget was damaged by still not allowing people to buy the apartment and thousands and thousands of apartments are unrepurchased, and we're talking about budget holes here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36305	We usually switch to replicas. First respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36306	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Horvat you asked yourself in your debate regarding the new reorganisation and establishment of the new State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, but also yesterday's rebalance on whether a housing programme will be implemented because your money has been undisputedly taken from you. I don't think that, regardless of the possible improvement in that part of administrative or bureaucratic behaviour, where perhaps faster given the number of people who will be dealing with the problem in that state office, it might be a quicker solution. However, there will always be the other part that is important, which is money. Now let me tell you about the comparison we burned to when we talk about the Ministry of Regional Development. The 2011 budget, when called the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, amounted to a billion and 850 million kunas where the two components of forestry and the water economy were 250 million kunas. They went into reorganisation, but there are a billion and 600 left for regional development. After yesterday's rebalancing, the Ministry of Regional Development, which should be the bearer of rural development, has a budget of billions and 50 million kuna. The Ministry of Culture has 850 million kunas. Can we understand what importance the Government has given this most important current ministry to prepare and enable the use of both European funds and funds from these funds, but also address these burning issues that are being discussed today, which is housing. How do you do that with that money? No, because it is simply obvious that there is almost nothing happening in this area except that the projects that were in some way still being projected during the former government through certain loans or were in some kind of construction phase. So he talks about housing regardless of the government's good desire to speed it up through the administration, i.e. The state office to resolve complaints, etc., that in that part of the physical settlement will remain, means through the construction itself in the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36307	The line matches the esteemed Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36308	Thank you. A colleague in any case, you've said a lot of things I'd like to confirm. I'm not going to talk about the total budget projection, it's about the rebalancing yesterday, it's a lot to talk about until late yesterday. I'm just repeating the fact, so the finance minister made it clear yesterday that he denied 86 and a half million kuna from this position because he expects these funds to be spent by the end of the year and can be interpreted in several ways. I'm interpreting one very simple. We didn't organize to spend these funds, and they exist in the budget. It was also said here by a colleague that last year we didn't have enough funds for that thing. We had an intended position last year, but we didn't do the thing. I won't analyze the reasons, I won't analyze the reasons, I won't call anyone. I'm talking about facts. We had money, what we did were exact things, measurable things. We also have in the budget we've brought a position for this year. The head of finance estimated that because of the reorganization business would not be completed and he directed those funds where he thought they would be more useful. It's a fact of fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36309	And another replica of Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36310	We both live in Slavonia, and we know very well what this 86.5 million kuna reduction means in the restoration. It's not just money that targets the restoration of Slavonia, but we also know well, which means a total reduction in agriculture of nearly 2 and a half billion kuna in these two budgets. And here's another appeal, here's because you filed the amendment yesterday to secure funds for the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing I also appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia because I don't know how they'll treat you, whether they'll treat you in a coalition or like us in opposition, so they won't raise their hands. But that is, in order for that office to work, you have to have the resources in the state budget, and that simply speaks of one thing that there is no coordination at this point. You have a minister, or a government that proposes a budget, you have a ministry that proposes the law, an office is established, and there is no means for the office to function in the state budget. It's called non-coordination in a normal world in this culture. And with us in the people's house there would be a ride, and a great one; if I didn't say, here is a fellow who reminds me of the word of the schlamper. And what I particularly urge to see is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Regional Development understands that we must move to a new, completely new Law on areas of special state care but also the competent Ministry of Mountain and Mountain Areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36311	The replica matches the esteemed Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36312	Thank you. So this isn't just about depriving funds, it's about depriving funds for social care and other categories that we're not repeating ourselves right now. The fact that it was done and that it was done. You said how we'd be treated, we're partners with the government in this matter and we're trying to be useful in this partnership. We have information and we have professional people who have been dealing with this problem for years and we're making ourselves available to the government and this new office, and we think we're going through this kind of partnership one shift. It's not good, I repeat, it's not good that we came into a situation to stagnate with this thing for almost two years, but we're optimistic. We think we're going to run something when we're done with this constitution and when this regulation that we're going to bring in today is a pro-functioner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36313	Thank you. The time foreseen for discussion on behalf of the HDZ club will be shared by three colleagues, Davorin Mlakar, Branka Juričev-Martinčev and Ivanka Roksandić. I'd like to invite the esteemed Mlakar to come to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36314	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister. It seems to me for the first time in the House that a debate has been brought together on a single law that has three proposals from three different proposings. One is the government, one is the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and one is a fellow representative. Interestingly, we have received a report from the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds, which concludes after the debate that it does not accept the proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Fields of Specific State Care proposed by the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, and then does not, of course, accept the proposal to supplement the laws proposed by counterpart Mladen Novak and, of course, accepts the very proposal put forward by the Government. And the government made a proposal for a law that we said would happen as a result of the unnecessary amendment to the Law on the Part-Corruption of Ministrys when the government decided it seemed to be designed by only one person this time by the Deputy Prime Minister that, given the inherited portfolio of his ministry, it would not be allowed to bother and deal with matters that were in the jurisdiction of his ministry, so they decided that some of the jobs of the current ministry would be transferred to a newly formed, newly formed state office. And that in itself would not be worrying if we hadn't warned about the fact that the state office in the state administration hierarchy or in the state administration system has less power than the ministry has, that it was so many serious problems and issues that it was good for the state ministry to be competent, not some lower body of the state administration, and even worse than that, after the many problems we encountered in regional development, it was the state office that had yet to be teamed up and yet to be formed. But then these issues on areas of special state care must de facto be shared in the jurisdiction of the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing and the Office of State Administration at the level of regional self-government and local self-government and finally at the Agency for Transport of Real estate which will now deal with not only the purchase and purchase of real estate but will also encourage the housing of individual categories in a way that will deliver construction material to people who themselves will go into building their own facilities. It is not clear to anyone at all how the Agency can do this and where it needs capacities in general and primarily people and arrangements to be able to deal with it, and then material resources and to question the legalisation of illegally built facilities that exist in areas of special state concern, etc., etc. Except that we are unfortunately here as an opposition that does not seem to suggest anything that you would be inclined to accept, except that we have objected to such solutions, and I believe the Government, among other things, has turned to Croatia's returnee community, which is appalled by the fact that in this way it wants to address areas of special state concern. Well, with some of the objections I've made, we'll start again in order and say what they're complaining about. First, what unfortunately never came to the understanding of the ruling facts that this law too was adopted by an urgent procedure. The explanation is that it is a monitoring process with Chapter 23, which we all know is a closed chapter. We all know that here we are only 2 months from the entry into the EU and it seems to us, and that reason for the urgency of the procedure is listed in the next two laws we will discuss after this, which is the Law on Reconstruction, the Law on Persecutors that the reasons for monitoring the process for Chapter 23. In addition to being inconclusive, I must tell you that this is not even true because the European Commission has also suggested to the Government that it does not go into such changes to this law, to retain the power of the ministry. Unfortunately, no one took care of it. And all of this in itself wouldn't be terrible if it didn't reveal one tendency of the government that actually wants to solve concerns about areas of special state concern, and that is clear to read when you read these two laws that we will later have in the debate. And not only that, the government set up the State Office for Housing, but interestingly in the budget, and even this rebalance did not provide for the funds that should be available to the office, and with all that still reduced the funds so that some colleagues, 85 million kuna, remained in place, 349 million kuna for the whole job, although the previous governments had invested much more to address the issue of shaving areas of special state concern. But, no wonder, it's no wonder that this stubbornness of the government to go to such regulations is just that we're afraid that the results will be that we'll be a state of special state concern, it just takes a little more time for them to become aware of it in the government as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36315	The debate on behalf of the club continues, a respected colleague of Banka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36316	What we're walking about is the same thing going on in time?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36317	As far as I'm concerned, you can fly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36318	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the areas of special state care proposed to include Gatcelez in the area of special state care of the HDZ club imitates and cannot accept the opinion of the Government explaining that the Gatcelezes were not occupied during the Homeland War and that this is the reason why they give a negative opinion on this bill. The inhabitants of Gachelez are bitter, and they deserve to be corrected for years of injustice, because they were occupied at the time. The town of Vodice has 4 settlements in its backyard, Pure large, Pure small, Grabs and Gacelleses. Due to its geographical location, the same course was during the Homeland War, however, these three Pure Greats, Pure Smalls and Grabers were already declared an area of special state care unlike the Gacellez. The drawers are three kilometers away from Grabovac, 4.5 from Pure Small. For those who do not know 220 people live there and believed that this injustice could finally be corrected, but this explanation caused them even greater pain, old wounds and old memories were awakened. Just briefly, on September 16, 1991, at 4:00, enemy forces stormed and occupied the Gacellez. Afterwards, they went to the Sibenik Bridge, stayed for 8 days, and were again stationed in the Gacelleses, there they remained until October 8th. So it is certain that from September 16th to October 8th, the Gachelese were occupied. On several occasions, our forces tried to free that settlement, the first time on September 29th, killed defender Darko Black from Zaton, several wounded. In a second attempt on October 7th, second defender Zeljko Grbelja of Vodice died. And still during the war, the Gatcelezes were the front line of the battlefield and the inhabitants were exiled. I sincerely believe that the Government will once again review its decision, give instructions to the city what to do, how to complete this request and that in the 2nd reading, the Government will also give a positive opinion to both the Gacellez and its inhabitants that injustice will be corrected, that they will be declared a final area of special state concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36319	This debate on behalf of the club will be concluded by respected counterpart Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36320	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here at the beginning of the HDZ club will support the proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Fields of Special State Care, which includes Komarevo as part of the town of Sisak as part of another group of areas of special state care. In his proposal and on the initiative of the Local Committee of Komarevo, so the citizens of Komarevo themselves presented this proposal and said, and reminded all of us that the Komarevo settlement belonging to the town of Sisak, at the time of aggression, was on the very line of the battlefield, the separation, that it was people who were mostly due to the part of Komarov who had been displaced. However, they were almost all defenders, and all the time the aggression in Croatia remained in their homes, defended the City of Sisak and all of Croatia. In the war, 80% of housing and commercial buildings were destroyed. I want to visit you that Sisak-Moslavina County is unfortunately the second to war damage in Croatia behind Vukovar-Srijem County. The reconstruction is over, the residents have received part of the reconstruction aid, but why this proposal from the local board now? We have also heard from counterpart Novak, just one other law has caused residents to try to regain the status of special state care because the Law on Legalisation is in force, which really requires a lot of disbursement of the financial resources of our citizens. There's something else I have to tell you, we all knew and we're all hearing about the fate of the Sisak Ironworks. Most of the residents of this village as a suburban settlement were just relying on work in Željezara Sisak, in the INI refinery Sisak. So, those economic operators who have fallen, who are almost lost and who are not there. And now here's this law that's going to make it really hard for them and the little funds they're making now in most of their agriculture business and working in some of the seasonal affairs. Today in this suburban village, which is not a small settlement, lives 830 inhabitants in 259 households, so according to the last of this 2011 provisional census. And because the vast majority of the population has really come a difficult way, the path to reconstruction is still waiting for them and this time legalization, there is a lot more to go on. In this, I'll say, my colleague said I don't know if it was Mateo or Klarin anymore, Sisak was once a really big industrial city. Sisak has until recently truly maintained all his needs for citizens and social needs and needs, public needs for citizens. However, it is becoming more and more difficult because the budget is getting smaller, the inflow from economic operators into the budget is becoming less and more difficult to help its residents. The city of Sisak has also freed the municipal fees in this legalisation but it will not help the residents much, and therefore we cannot accept as a club what the government thinks, which is said to see the list of war-threatening areas of Komarevo in the list of crisis areas. Well, that's the facts, so we know that's why we're asking him to come out of this group of crisis areas and it really belongs to the area of special state care and the HDZ club will support this. And why are colleagues more and more of these demands? Well, the government itself opened up and we opened the Pandora's box. Someone here said this had nothing to do with the bill on amendments, additions to the laws on districts, cities and municipalities. In this one of the proposals there is also a change in the status of my municipality of Popovač in the town of Popovač. That is exactly what positive opinions today are an incentive to other citizens when I talked to people why at this point, with the explanation I gave you, I got the answer. Others too seek and receive a change of status from the municipality to the city, change of deeds and belonging to another municipality or city, so we try. So this is what we've done, and the government has given some a positive opinion, some don't. I hope the government will understand that Komarevo is indeed one of hundreds of places in the Republic of Croatia that defended Croatia in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36321	The HDZ Club will now be replicated by a member of the HDZ Club, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36322	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mlakar, you have mentioned legalization and it is certainly a big problem in areas of special state concern, but also in other areas mainly rural areas, and for several reasons, the first one is certainly financially because it costs a lot, second and state of the catastra and grantovnica where people also have certain problems and the fact is that people experience this law as one particular fear and experience it as a law of destruction. And the Minister of Construction at numerous presentations sometimes welcomes both the inconveniences and the protests and in some ways unfortunately sees her as a minister with a bagger. A particular problem is, of course, in the northwestern part of Croatia, the clients, where this is known to be a certain tradition, a way of life, and there our citizens have also filed constitutional action to do so. And I'm kind of surprised because many of our now honored pensioners have been building this, saving, building for years, and building their Gorica clients as we say in our sub-level neighborhood that the simple party of the pensioners is silent about not being manifested, and surely these people who are one way of living healthy, life in nature with savings realized that there is no simple voice or support for those people who are now in such difficulties. And the fact that it won't end until this deadline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36323	A member of the HDZ Club will respond to a replica by a representative of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36324	I'm sorry, but I have to answer the line to my esteemed colleague Milinkovic because I don't think you're right. The minister is seen more as a secretary with a sailboat than as a manager but in addition, the manager started and I think he stopped his activities and I believe that it was also a form of using ministries for pre-election purposes and will likely stop activity on further destruction of objects.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36325	Another member of the HDZ Club wants to replicate his club. It will be Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36326	That's right, Mr. Vice President. Looking at you in the previous term, we learned that it's good because sometimes you need to supplement something someone from the club might miss to say. And that's why there's a replica. And that's you, Mr. Vice President, as well as a fellow representative of the former, and the current minister has worked very well. As for Mrs. Juričev's exposure, she's right, the Gachelez were an occupied area, and it doesn't matter if it's a month, 3 days, 15 days, a year, the law is clear there. If he was occupied by him, his status as PDS belongs to him. But then we get to the higher level, the government that won't give it to him. Not because they want to respect what it says in the law but simply politically, because it's not good. Because the positive effect of such a bill is always at a local level among those people whom many SDP deputies will now come and say that they should vote for but simply are not able to meet their wish at present, so if they meet their duty and vote for them, they may, in the seventh month, debate in the same law and then be in the area of PPDS, such settlements for both Komarevo and Gachelezi and then not to talk about the mountainous mountainous area. These are the problems we are facing because simply in all that forest of these laws that come to us and now I hear today the government is coming back to some laws, changing the status of certain areas, local self-government, and then doing kindergartens, because people don't pay us I don't know we've changed one law that one settlement passes to another community for kindergarten so they don't pay a higher price here where there's a clear law I don't give but there SDP and HNS solved their problem so they can and here HDZ wants to solve their problem by law but we can't. That's the government's relationship... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36327	Thank you very much. If it's to trust Bratoljub Klaic, and I think we should trust him, replicating someone doesn't mean supplementing him, but expressing our disagreement with what he said, so I'm asking you to consult... That's what it says. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] It's a dictionary of foreign words. And it would be good to respect language experts. Next replica, the esteemed Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36328	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrs. Martinchev, it may be somewhat incorrect to commit to the emotions of the Homeland War and to present the names of the dead in order to strengthen the impact of your proposal to amend and supplement the Law on areas of special state concern because the same emotions could be called, for example, by the citizens of Karlovac who was on the front line all the time, was bombed almost daily and also has a large number of victims and is in a much worse situation financial and various situations than the town of Vodice. The city of Dubrovnik was on the front line, we all know what the city of Dubrovnik had experienced but fortunately the city of Dubrovnik is a city that does not need the support of the state budget because it came to these branches... that it does not need it, happiness itself. And if someone needs to compensate for the damage to the locals of the Gatcelez, then I'm surprised why your two previous governments didn't do it when you were very compatible with the government, and now you mention the SDP doesn't want it and HDZ doesn't want it the way it wants it. So why didn't HDZ do it when he had the chance? And Mrs. Martinchev, as mayor of the city of Vodice, you have the tools to help the inhabitants of the Gacellez. And my question is, how much of that 20 million kuna investment that the state invested in the town of Vodice how much of that amount of money did the town of Vodice invest in, say, these Gachelese? Well, maybe you could explain that to your residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36329	You need to pick up, listen to me. You have to answer that, you have to pick up the plate while he was telling a colleague what you didn't do. It was seen by Mrs. twilight sitting in front of you. ... Answer the replica and learn to use the tile in the meantime. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36330	I can see that you have a bit of a conscience about the names you've just spoken, your conscience and the fact that the Gatcellez will be occupied. This is how much the city of Vodice invests in the Gacheleses, come and take a walk, and you will see. I already told you in the first line that what we're asking for the citizens of Gacellez to get those rights that can't allow them the city of Vodice, which is all based on the restoration of development, legalization, taxes and these duties. As for the construction of the infrastructure and now the investment is worth a million and a half kuna in the course of construction in the Gatcelez. As far as the previous governments are concerned, I would only remind you of what you said and your party a year and a half ago coming out to the elections, that everything that the previous governments did was wrong and that it was wrong and that you would correct all this injustice. Now you have been given the opportunity to correct this injustice against the inhabitants of the Gachelez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36331	The last replica of the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36332	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My replica is directed to Mrs. Roksandić. You looked back in your discussion at a debate between fellow Matjanians who made a difference between those changes that cost nothing to budget, so he mentioned some other areas, and you mentioned calling for that on Popovac. But what I'm trying to say is that there is one important difference here, the population of Popovci from this change in the status of the municipality to the city won't make any use. While the population of Komaraev, who has suffered a lot of casualties throughout this war, do not want to re-prove the reaction to names but the fact is that the entire population was either within the Croatian Army or was displaced from there, that they still have more than that is the town of Sisak, which is totally on their knees, whose ironworks have failed where most people have worked. All other companies are also more or less failed, it's practically a city that's exhaling. And now we have a chance to change something about it. But I wouldn't characterize this the way you said it. You had eight years of opportunity so why didn't you do something, but now you have a chance to correct what they did wrong. The fact is that you have and this will be your political point, the election campaign is your decision, no one can make a decision except for the ruling majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36333	Ivanka Roksandić responds to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36334	Thank you. I have referred to the change in the status of the city of Popovaca, and you have said well other than what will be called citizens eventually, and otherwise some of the costs of the citizens themselves about the change in the status of the city and the institutions themselves that live and work, however, it will not bring anything to the citizens or locals of Komarov. I'm so tragic and black, I don't see the city I live in. He used to be a big industrial city but he carries the fate of all of Croatia, he was hit by the economic crisis and the financial crisis, but I think that the city is still very well worn in these areas that need to be given and so is the village of Komarevo. And that's why I'm worried that a few colleagues from the ruling furniture are going to say, and the government's opinion is that it's going to be settled in some new law. This was an opportunity when we are already changing the existing law, to accept Mayor Vodice's proposal and a proposal from the Committee on Local Self-Government and your proposal as a representative to put these two places in special state care. Because today we're discussing changes to the law. And when there will be some new law that we all agree is necessary because there have been major changes in Croatia, there are differences in Croatia, that Croatia, however much we want to be whole and that it is equally developed, we are aware that it is not, since then. We'll talk about it when the bill comes. But let's make it possible now that at this moment when the amendments and the addition of the law are already in place then for those who want to change, who want something better for their own territory, let's give them and accept it. If we've already accepted a few changes in another law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36335	We will also hear the views of the HNS Club and the esteemed representative, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36336	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development. Surely this is a very important Law on amendments and additions to areas of special state concern. Although many years have passed since the release from the Homeland War, 18 years, still right, with a lot of emotions from colleagues and colleagues coming from these areas react, which is appropriate and should not be condemned. What is certainly good is that this new bill tries to unite everything that was quality in the 2008 and 2011 laws and here adapts it with a new way and a new form of work with the Government and the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia. This Law on areas of special state concern also provides for specific measures to encourage reconstruction and development. Also here, when we talk about this law, we must always remember that the Republic of Croatia, by population, is one kilometer square among the weakest populated countries of the future Europe. If we're talking about the Republic of Croatia. If we're talking about areas of special state concern this time, we can say that these indicators are even more drastic, several times more difficult. And if we take that to the question of employment in those areas, then we'll see that these areas that bear that name of special state care deserve even more. What may well be the moment and time to mention both the economic moment and the state of the Republic of Croatia and the state of the Republic of Croatia and the budget of the Republic of Croatia tells us that those financial resources and those measures that should be put into operation as soon as possible both with the population and with the economy. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the state budget of the Republic of Croatia cannot finance this to the extent that it would be to the satisfaction of all these areas that have passed in the Homeland War in one of the most difficult ways. What has also been done in the last few years since 2008 until today, it has been taken care of somewhere over 9,000 households. This is a financial significant number, significant funds have been spent on bringing these objects into operation and on providing certain categories which under this particular law have the right to do so. It is estimated that somewhere around 27 thousand people have been taken care of and under this law the right to special care is particularly treated by refugees, exiles, returnees, Croatian defenders, members and soldiers of the Croatian Council of Defense, persons with special needs, victims, persons who are victims of violence. And it's also a newspaper and it's good that local self-government units in agreement with the Ministry of Regional Development can also be part of objects that are so-called. Human resources can also be used to bring quality... to these spaces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is also important and important in all the laws and thus in this law that the list of priorities is a publicly visible document and that you can see exactly every year a list of priorities and the exact state of which the request is in and at which point the request will be processed. What also burdens this Law is a matter of household rights, former tenants who had an obligation of up to 30. 4. submit applications and they are after that, they entered into a normal procedure to resolve their status. What is particularly commendable is an initiative that is being addressed at neighbouring countries, namely the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Serbia, which have signed at foreign ministers' level a declaration that at the same time they will try to address this issue that is affecting these areas. It is also important to note that with this declaration and that certain funds have been raised, that is about 584m euros, and that the Republic of Croatia will have about 15m euros to handle and resolve these PPDS in these five years. What is also important, this law provides that part of the work of the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds is to be transferred to the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing. We do not think that this is just a technical change, but we also think that it is an organisational change that will be able to monitor fully all the activities that are related to solving this problem in a more quality way. We've also touched here on the implementation and adoption of this law that we're afraid we won't have enough resources. I said here that on the one hand that the declaration has also brought in a donation of funds from the European Union and friends, we have some of our own resources, and some of the funds are expected by donations. Also with the IPA programme, component 1 will be able to resolve this part this year, and since the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union this time we will be able to use some of the structural funds. What this law will certainly do well is that more rational use of state budget and property owned by the Republic of Croatia will be possible, better planning and control of the conditions of use of state-owned funds, a precise and clear process of care for all categories of users, progress in meeting the requirements covered by the monitoring of the process of the Republic of Croatia when entering the European Union. That's for Chapter 23. Justice and fundamental rights. What I would also point out on behalf of the club, that this part that has been negotiated and negotiated with the European Union, Chapter 23, is that at the level of the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to even the procedures itself that we do not happen in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia to have the same legislation and different interpretations. What I'm going to say is that the HNS Club will support and welcome this law because we think the law is clearer, more precise, more accurate, more accurate, more accessible. And as for the two requirements that come from colleagues from Novak and the Committee on Local Self-Government, otherwise related to Vodice, I have to say that they would not like to open new questions because if we make a concession here to position the places of Komarevo and Gacellez or four settlements in the back of Vodice, we are opening up an area of injustice towards a large number of local self-government and government units that were on the front lines and were falling. There are those in the environment where I live a lot of places like that that aren't on the lists. But in any case, as a club, we will support that the competent services and the competent institutions of the Republic of Croatia pass all those places that were on the front lines of the defense, which are significantly damaged and that we do not make new injustices because we cannot obey the laws of the mood as far as we are concerned. In any case, I would raise my hand both for Vodice and for Komarevo but that time, there are many other places in Slavonia, because almost one big line of about 50 km in Slavonia, all those settlements were on the front line and they would be unfair. This House must not pass laws that will be unfair to citizens. If we go into that change then all the settlements that are in the same situation as these two settlements that we've listed, we should... then we'll support it anyway. We'll support the bill as a club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36337	Thank you. There are 8 replicas reported to this exhibit, but we'll hear them all at 3:00 when we resume the session. I now declare a lunch break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36338	Good morning, let's all wake up a little bit 'cause obviously there's very little of us. It's three o'clock. We've been left with seven replicas since last session, but I don't know how we're going to deal with them since most people seem to be missing here. Then let's take it in a row. The first replica was that of Reverend Davorin Mlakar. He's not here. He's losing his right. The next replica was reported by the distinguished representative of Branko Box. I can't see him either.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36339	I'm here, I'm here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36340	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36341	I'm not so small you can't see me. Here's my thanks, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned to your colleague Mandic that it was a positive thing. I agree, but I think we have a negative moment here that I'd like to point out. I think that's the most controversial part of the amendments to this law, and that's what applicants for housing will have to file every year if they don't take care of themselves. So, if someone submitted a request, I don't know January 1st or January 5th 2014, and it's, or it's, entitled to housing, it's given consent to housing. I don't see the need if housing didn't happen in 2014 that he had to apply again in 2015. So he's got to get his papers out again, etc. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So he's talking about priority lists. That's exactly what you mentioned. I don't know. I think it should be deleted in a way that when a man exercises his right then there is no more application and additional documentation. That's one thing. And secondly, I think the Head of State's Office will have too much power over the rules of the game since the law does not say under what conditions someone has the right or does not have the right to provide housing. So the rules of the game will be brought by the head of the body. I don't think that's good, I don't think that's good, and it's supposed to be prescribed by law. So, there are a lot of laws in this topic and it's said that I don't know one of them is, for example, referring to tenant rights holders where the government still had to bring consent. I don't know in other areas. I know when to bring an annual housing plan which is less important than what we're talking about right now, also the competent minister had to give an opinion. But in this case here means we don't have the rules of the game by which the head of that body determines who has the right, who doesn't have the right to live care.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36342	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivica Mandic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36343	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. Well, my whole debate was focused on making it easier for all users and the paperwork itself and the paperwork itself. In my opinion, I agree with you and your remark is in place that if the request was received neatly he is valid and would not need new documentation. The only thing that this new proposal for a law on the field of special care is that from that moment on, from the handover of the complete documentation each month of waiting brings a certain number of points. Maybe in that sense, the number of points should be added to that waiting list, maybe that should be complemented. But anyway, I agree with you that you wouldn't need the whole paperwork again, that the paperwork was fully received. Unless something new happened to that request. That's why I think it would certainly be good for the legislator to accept this remark of yours that I fully agree with. And as for the head of the Department of Management, I think the law is quite clear and it should be precise and what are the powers of the head of the office, that it should not be left to him to determine according to his will how it is. That should also be settled legally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36344	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36345	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mandic, at one point when you spoke about the objectives of these amendments and the addition of the law, you said that the law will also help settlement in the area of special state care. Unfortunately, I fear this law will not help settle, but I believe that the fundamental goal of all of us living in areas of special state concern and who are involved in the behaviour of government and in political life is to stop emigration. Because we have a situation where our kids go to school, they finish colleges, high schools, and they don't come back. It also happens that it is impossible in both elementary and high school to organise any extracurricular activity especially in the afternoon because teachers come to us in the morning at seven o'clock in a column in those areas and after two or four hours they leave. Therefore, this process is not only the result of the war as someone might think in the first wave but simply live in such a time that the whole of Croatia is practically reduced to 4 major cities of Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek and their gravitating settlements, and unfortunately the areas along the border remain empty which I will talk more about in my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36346	Thank you very much. Answer, distinguished representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36347	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My esteemed colleague, my entire debate, was essentially encouraged by events in these special areas of state concern, which were more or less all areas threatened by war, and I also linked those spaces to a very bad demographic situation in the Republic of Croatia. If we look at the birth rate of the Republic of Croatia, it is among the world's top 10 countries after population growth. Here I was talking about the problems of the state's special concern that, in this way, by fast solving these areas, we will return one part of our citizens. Also, what this to the problem that you point out is that teachers and teachers are coming to those areas from other places and that they are doing it and that they are going back to another environment with this law is that units of local self-government in agreement with the state office can solve a part of the space for people who want to permanently settle in that space. It would be the best solution because these employees or teachers, teachers would raise that space and culturally and engage in life and leave a large number of people behind. But it must be a common policy not only of the Ministry of Regional Development but of the entire government, parliament and all the institutions of this state. Because we as a people with this population and with this many numbers don't have much security for survival because more of us in one year are always dying than we are born. And these are major problems, which, among other things, the Ministry of Regional Development must take care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36348	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed MPs of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36349	... Given what you said in your reply to the replicas in many ways, we will seem to agree, but it will not be contrary to Klaic and Klaic's dictionary, it will be in accordance with our Rules of Procedure which says that the representative who wants to answer the other MP can do so. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] And Klaic also says that the replica can be an opposition but also an answer not necessarily to the opposition. So, you mentioned a regional housing program here. You mentioned that according to the regional programme signed by foreign ministers of around 580 and some million are the funds needed for the programme to mostly be collected from donations and so on in the programme and it says that around 260 million will be, there are already solid donations. But let's not be fooled, it's not some donation new than I don't know where, 90 percent of it's pre-accession funds from the IPA program. So they're not the new ones we think we're gonna get, which we're not counting on. But what I don't see from the program and what's confusing me, and it's signed to say that these funds will be secured from donations and participation by participating states. However, as we can see from these charts, only the Republic of Croatia will almost double the resources from its own funds compared to donations, and then we do not know what the criteria were and why Croatia has in some way agreed to pay more than double the other countries of the agreement out of their own funds as a percentage compared to donations. Since we didn't have this agreement before the Parliament, we couldn't even comment on him, but here's the thing. And that's why I'm holding it, and I see that's why we agree that this law, which unfortunately doesn't go into two readings, is why we can't even expect that something in it will change, and it would be quite a reason for it to go primarily to the Law on the status of exiles and refugees in two readings, article I will, just to finish the sentence, so Article 8 is certainly inadmissible because Article 8 is typical legislation and the content of the legal terms and conditions is left to one state office and to a sublegal act which is inadmissible. [[Intruder Reiner: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36350	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivica Mandic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36351	Here, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, what I think is certainly good that with a declaration signed by the foreign ministers of the four states of Serbia, Croatia, BiH and Montenegro that the same laws apply to all four areas of interest. So it will not be possible for individuals to resolve their status both in one Republic and in another Republic, or in one country and in another country. I think that's good. As for the funds raised when the declaration was signed at a donation conference in Sarajevo in BiH, 260m euros were collected. Of these 260m euros, 230m euros were EU funds. What Croatia is obliged to do in these five years, I think it is 150m euros for these projects. What is certainly good is that with its accession to the EU from 1 July 2013, the Republic of Croatia will be able to use the Structural Funds, and so far it has been able to use IPA component 1 concerning housing care and everything else. I think the Republic of Croatia will know how to use these funds and withdraw them because they are the rights above all that enter human rights, that it is essential that a man for his life has his own home and that he can begin to build his life and his existence. Otherwise, with most of your findings, I fully agree, and I think this is a problem that you should all and council clubs and all MPs agree on because these are areas that are particularly sensitive because in this area will live citizens of the Republic of Croatia and there every injustice is generated several times because if problems are harder then people are harder to bear and any injustice.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36352	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36353	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You said to your colleague Mandic in your debate: "That we would not like to open new questions because if we make a concession here to position the place of Komarevo and Gacellezi or four settlements in the hinterland of Vodice in another way. This time we open up an area of injustice towards a large number of local self-government and government units that were on the front lines and which were falling. I would not agree with that finding but we are reducing injustice, I agree that we have not fully corrected it and that there are still settlements that have been left out on this list, but the fact is that we have reduced the injustice. And second, about this proposal from the government, I'm asking you a question, but I don't mind having my deputy answer or his associates answer me, which is changing with this law, which is now going to allow what's not done so far? In particular, if the house that APN bought is available, if it is empty, if there is a man who is interested in renting that house, for entering it there are all the preconditions that these reasons were that APN has so far made it impossible for him to do so and that it is waiting so long, it is a really long period, and now this law is going to change that something. The law itself will not change anything, whether we obey the law or not, or whether we act on it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36354	Thank you very much. No, by mistake, I understand that it was a mistake for the Rules of Procedure, but for the reply to the replica, the respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36355	Here, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It was supposed to be yellow. I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Novak for asking. What I said was that I did not question at any moment the justification of the demands that came from the local self-government unit of the City of Vodice and the City of Sisak on this matter, but I was willing to accept the opinion and reasoning given by the government. The government has made too much of an explanation and said that according to the criteria it has these settlements could not come into this category. I don't think it would be directed. And then I explained the reasons why I didn't support these two cities because such cities in the Republic of Croatia and such settlements have a lot to offer, and then they would do new injuries and new injustices again. That's why I said that in any case, we as a club support the revision of all those sites that were on the first lines of the defence of the Republic of Croatia, where there was no life except for the military's actions that also deserve certain attention and certain rights, given that they were areas of special interest to the Republic of Croatia. And as for questions for the Deputy Minister, if he wants to answer yes, I wouldn't answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36356	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36357	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Mandic, I will repeat once again, you said you would support the inclusion of Gatcelez in the area of special state care but that this would only bring injustice to all those who were the front line of the front line of the front line. In addition to being the front line of the front line for a long time, they were occupied from September 16th to October 8, and why are we even afraid if there are more such settlements that have been unfair for years, they haven't been given this status to correct this injustice now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36358	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Ivica Mandic will now respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36359	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, thank you very much, dear colleague. Well, I'm not that institution or that institution of the Republic of Croatia that will determine the actual state of affairs, neither would I, nor do I have those rights. I will also tell you that the formula that this government probably did not formulate is currently being run by Prime Minister Milanovic, that it is probably some of the governments that are from that time that they made and described exactly what settlements they are. If I were to discuss it in such a way, whether I should, should not, I should be, but be sure then we open at least a few hundred other settlements that were on the first line, which were not with the residents and which should certainly be learning with certain other rights. And yet we must say that we have a budget of the Republic of Croatia that hardly meets the needs of the one they have now taken over, so I am afraid that with any new revisions, we have a significant impact on the position of the Republic of Croatia's budget. We are the ones who are making the budgets, who we reject, and we are equally co-responsible and those who vote against the functioning of this country and the functioning of the budget, but I am against it if we accept the obligation without fulfilling it because I mean this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36360	Thank you very much. The last individual debate of the respected representative, Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36361	Thank you. Here's the esteemed Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Minister with the assistants. I actually volunteered to support my colleague Novak as the promoter of the Law on Areas of Specific State Care because he intended to introduce Komarevo into this description of P2 areas of special state concern. I think the Government should have been as correct as Mandic was, in an explanation, so let's just say, here's what we can't give to the Pants and the Komareva for what they're going to look for. Because this is the explanation the government gave me here at the time of the rejection is totally unacceptable. Here's my colleague Branka explained to the Gacelles that they were occupied, so there's no such thing as the thesis here in this government response, and also when we talk about Komarevo, I can say that only the place so the houses and roads were not occupied in Komarevo during the war, but it's 200 meters lower, so in the area of the Catastrian municipality or the settlements of Komarevo were enemy trenches from which they were fired. It was fired from 91 to 95, so it took four years. The mosquito hasn't moved the front or the front line in four years. About the importance of Komarov’s colleague Novak spoke, and so did colleague Roksandić, and I don’t think there’s a particular need to explain it, but I think I’m going to say one more time more correctly to use this term because I’m not inclined to have any harsh expressions that would be far more correct to say we can’t let you be in this area of special state concern because there will be another 50. That would be far more correct. However, I am glad that these three bill proposals were united, then I can say a few things about these amendments to the law on the area of special state care as you know I was born and lived and lived in Glina, an area of special state care, a city that had before the war 23 thousand inhabitants, according to the 81st census, had 24 inhabitants, in 2001 had 9,000 and 800, in 2011, it had 9,000 and 300, so not only the city but the entire unit of local self-government. The mayor once told me that on the main street in Glina, about 500 meters long, 9 families live. You heard 9 families on the street. That's what I'm saying to illustrate, in fact, the situation in which areas of special state concern are located. I said in response to my colleague Mandic that the columns of civil servants come in the morning at seven o'clock from Sisak and Petrinja in Glin, Topovski and Iron, and at 4 o'clock in the afternoon, the officers come in, the teachers come in, teachers come in, the afternoon they leave. No law, no office, no state measure can inhabit anyone by force, can even attract him. We had another illustration of the situation today that we had heard from a lady from Ogulin who called the front desk when she got a chance to get a job in Karlovac, she went to Karlovac, and Glina lost her head. Here's what I'm talking about, Clay. I can spread it to other areas. Mr Janjic is here, he has visited, we have even been in some meetings together, we have visited the Iron, between the Gline and the Castle there are 57 km and you can drive along that road so that you do not meet any vehicle, no man, 57 km and that space is the border, that space will be the European border in a few months and that space will be the Schengen border towards Croatia becoming the EU border country. So these are the problems we're talking about, the problems we're facing. We have seen the solution, and for many years I have advocated the decision that the state is decentralisation its institutions that can decentralisation. I also thought that a great example of the Clay Penitentiary, which now has about 300 employees, had over 500 prisoners inside and was expected to actually help the development and life of the region. Unfortunately, once again, one law stimulates another law to detimise. So we have the Public Procurement Act where public procurement is being made for the purposes of the penitentiary, so let's say the bread for the Penitentiary in Clay is being imported from Karlovac, and also when 80 officers were employed for the purposes of the Glina Penitentiary, about 2200 candidates appeared, around 1100 met the conditions, were received by most people who were not from Gline in the field of special state care, and then we have a situation or to travel and generate additional costs, none of them will settle, nor and can wait for the opportunity to open up in any other judicial body a place that they leave. So, what did we get? Nothing. Where are we going? Nothing. The additional thing and the additional problem I would like to say is unfortunately the situation with the construction of this highway Zagreb-Sisak, that my colleague Roksandić and I, on several occasions, talked about that road, asked questions, fellow Novak also, we always got answers that the highway was being built, that it was going but it was being built since '99, so it was being built for 14 years and never reached. And it is very important when it comes to this highway to say that this is not the Zagreb-Sisak highway, but that this is the Zagreb-Sisak-Mosčenica highway, therefore, an area of special state concern. And that's the only chance if we have infrastructure if we have a population, if we have someone to build for while we're building people, because it's gonna happen to us that we're not going to have someone to build for because we're going to have youth gone, because people are going to leave us, and we're going to have an empty and empty country while our cities are being overcrowded, and while we're going to look at those sad pictures that our people in particular are digging through containers looking for bottles, and here they have a chance for a good life, but there's some barrier that I don't understand, and that's all in big cities, and in smaller places nobody. I'd have so much to say, but I expect my colleagues to replicate, so I'll probably have the opportunity to answer and explain what I haven't said so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36362	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused two replicas. She's the first one to be a respected representative of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36363	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Shantek, you said that it might be more correct to use the right expression, so we're not going to approve this, we're not going to allow it because then we're going to have to use others. I don't think that's the right answer. The fact is, it's not the biggest problem. I think there was a possibility that this question that hurts these people the most now to be solved in some other way. The proof of this is exactly what I said earlier, I'm talking about legalisation, proof of exactly how it was solved for certain national minorities, which I'm stressing again has nothing to do with it, but it means there's a possibility that this problem could be solved in another way, at least in this case, if it doesn't want to hit the Law on areas of special state concern with an explanation that would make it even more confusing. I think at the end of the day that it wouldn't make more confusion, only that it would probably cause a reaction to others who were also damaged by this part. And this second part that you've been talking about in these areas, or people's migration, is unfortunately the reality that we've seen. It's not long after there's been a demining debate, you know, when you don't live in such an environment, when you don't have that touch, then it doesn't really hurt you, you don't have any big problems about it. And on the other hand, if you're in such an environment every day, then it's really hurting you, then that's the biggest problem of your life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36364	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36365	Well, here's my dear colleague, so I'm glad you've once again pointed out exactly what's important. So Komarevo and Sunja is a symbol of the defense of Sisak-Moslavina County and Komarevo is also a place that has not moved for five years, so the front has not moved a millimeter, and there have been terrible attacks in that place. If anything, that's all this was supposed to be done in this law. And I think it's far easier to supplement this law and support your initiative than to promise some law that will solve everything, and we can see that no law can solve the situation unless people want to stay in some space. But people go away for a variety of reasons. A lot of people die, a lot of people are born. People leave for work, and that's why these areas are in exactly the way they are. I will support every initiative of every MP who will help to make living there easier, but I believe that this whole complex of issues that we have opened today is far more complex and that the government should really engage more strongly if it wants to address this situation. And it is also in the interest of Zagreb that this situation is resolved that we do not have a situation of overcrowding Zagreb, and that we have everything around the desert, especially that we have a desert area along the border. For example, I have 20 seconds left, for example, I will say that all previous countries from Austria-Hungarian countries have further solved border areas. Austro-Hungarianism also encouraged her, she said teachers would come to those areas. The former state ordered factories to build plants so that people could stay there. And that's why I'm in this one of my own, and I don't know how to say some kind of effort to help say that the current state should decentralize what it can, which is state institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36366	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36367	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am encouraged by the discussions and colleagues of Novak, as well as by my colleague Shanteka, and since I was in the days of the Homeland War and I can say that really Komarevo can't say it like Vukovar but for that end of Sisak-Moslavina County symbol and the city of Sisak's dam. But I must also say that here, and you have extended not only to Kumarevo but also to the rest. There is also this problem of this whole wide area that there is if you count all together and you said the road Dvor-Glina 57km settlements have and tables but you don't, you can't see living souls on that road. That so-called. ... The belly of Croatia that was once the spine of the Croatian state and of the Croatian kingdom. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if I were to ask someone here if he knew where the first Croatian money was made, so-called A banner that was forged by Zrinski's banks. And you don't know, normally, it's in the Iron Tree, it's on the Dvor-Glin road. So if I were to ask where Zrin is, few people would even know where Zrin is, and they don't know it. So, of course, when they don't know, they don't even know in the government that this area that God has given for many economic, economic activities, especially livestock and organic agriculture, that there's no interest, there's nothing to say to investment or interest in starting that end and finally on that part that's a long border, so on. The dry border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia has finally triggered something. That's the end he deserved. And the highway not only was it supposed to go to Moscenica, but it was supposed to be a date on both Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then the area, like Lika, through which she passed the highway towards Split, would have come to life and we know that Lika-Sen County and those places that were on the highway really came to life. It's like this, just to say just extinction, there's no more valuable economic object there. And I'll be in favour of this proposal. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36368	Answer, distinguished representative Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36369	Here, dear colleague Grubisic has actually confirmed what I said that each replica actually opens a new topic... the problems that this area is facing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Indeed, the Court area, otherwise, is the largest municipality if we exclude those who have seas, therefore, the largest land municipality in the Republic of Croatia and has about 5,000 inhabitants now. We can also talk about the problem that Petrinja faces. We can also talk about the problem that both Glina and Topusco and the Iron or Vrginmost are facing now as it is called according to the latest. We can also talk about the areas of the Lower Kukuruzars, which are also rich in problems, the Majur municipality, the municipality of Croatia Dubica which suffered terrible damage in the war, Croatia Kostanica as well. So I'm going to say once again, actually appeal here publicly to the government. The situation is far more complex than a law could solve or one agency could solve. We can also open a topic called settlement. Unfortunately, people who stay very short, stay very short, or while their children finish school or until they get a chance to get a job, then leave that property. If you drive this road at night, on the other road from Glina towards Karlovac or from Karlovac towards Glina, you will be shocked when you drive the settlements, where, say, Vojnic is one-third, in one-third of the house there is no light burning. Also, when it is winter, when it is snowing, you will see how many gardens are uncleaned, so no one lives in them. The houses, also a colleague, we've reopened the new topic, rebuilding the houses, the houses are empty, they're out of function. These are all topics that need to be discussed and in which I think it would be better to approach more seriously than it has ever been.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36370	Thank you very much. We've come to an end with discussions. Now I'd like to ask if the promoters would like to take the floor? We have three proposings, one representing Dr. Jaksa Puljiz, one Mr. Honorable Representative Mladen Novak, is the third representative, as I understand it, authorised by Mr. Vinkovic, the esteemed representative Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Do you want to take a word for it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36371	... The debate, there were a lot of constructive proposals. [[Specially enabled.]] Indeed, it must be said first of all that the amendments to the law on areas of special state care were primarily intended to comply with the recent amendments to the Law on the System of State Administration, i.e. the Law on the Establishment and Circumstance of Ministries and other Central Authorities. With the primary goal of enabling a new body called the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing to be put into office as soon as possible. And that is the goal of these amendments to this Law and the next two laws we will soon have a chance to discuss. Of course, always a topic such as the area of special state care is complex enough and complex enough to challenge a number of comments and observations concerning much broader, much broader topics such as regional development, such as the question I would even say to save the development of certain areas of the Republic of Croatia, formulating quality long-term development policies. Because what my colleague Shantek was saying, I can really agree with those findings just housing that this country has invested a lot, so we estimate that it's almost 5 billion kunas from 96 to today. It didn't work out what we wanted. So, on the one hand, we have achieved our return, Croatia can be raised, commended by the highest rate of return of the population when we talk primarily about exiles, the weaker the results of the return of the refugees, but are truly unique in world terms. However, such investments in housing infrastructure are not sufficient because it is shown that there is a need to have a much wider context in mind, a context that will create this sustainable atmosphere for people's lives, and above all concerns the number and quality of jobs. And that's why the challenge for this is greater how to actually, in addition to housing that is complex, which has really resulted in very high-quality results for me, how to complete this programme with a series of other measures. And this will be the topic that we will be dealing with at the Ministry of Regional Development, so I can now announce that by the end of the year serious changes will take place regarding access to less developed areas, above all through the Regional Development Act. There was one thing pointed out here several times, first of all, to edit the framework, the framework concerning the identification of less developed areas. Right now we have three systems, we have a PPDS system, we have mountain-mounted areas and we have assisted areas that define the development index. And we have to decide, so we can't move forward with three parallel systems. What's the problem with PPDS? That system was passed in '96. the year, so at a time when the important areas of the Republic of Croatia suffered terrible destruction and, of course, it is logical that the first and basic criteria were occupying and thus identified the areas themselves. Today, however, it is 2013 and is really asking whether it is justified to continue in areas just because they were occupied in '91. '95. or, in a shorter period, they have the right to continue to be under the special law of the State. In this period, there have been very significant changes in a positive sense in some areas. Hand to heart, it should be said, most of these areas remain the weakest developed territory of the Republic of Croatia, most of the war-torn areas remain at risk of socioeconomic areas and should be dealt with. However, we already have this system that gives us objective criteria that are absolutely and in line with the positive practice of the European Union applying socio-economic criteria. In the case of cohesion policy, GDP per capita, however GDP per capita is something that is applied at the so-called level. statistical regions of NUTS 2 levels between 800 thousand and 3 million, so one criterion which is at a much higher territorial level than would be good for the Croatian context. That's why we have a development index that we monitor and calculate at local level, so at the level of units of local self-government and at the level of regional self-government. And then, of course, when we already have it objectively by all estimates, it's the scale of development, so let's totally apply it. So the changes we are going to propose by the end of the year will go exactly in this direction so that the development index becomes the only criterion for identifying areas lagging behind in development, less developed areas and that should enjoy special support from the country. So the government's response to the MPs' comments on how it is necessary to coordinate both mountainous and mountainous areas and PPDS and create a long-term single framework, the unique approach to identifying less developed areas is that, the government will do so, the changes are already in preparation through the Regional Development Act. These changes will also be realised or possibly through a special law on assisted areas, and we will see more about this. I want to thank everyone for the amendments, so all the amendments will, of course, be considered, the Ministry will take a position and will propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I think that we will have the position of the Government in Parliament next week, higher than the proposed amendments. The issue of implementation of housing programmes and the issue of slow implementation is mentioned. So here I want to highlight two things: one issue is implementation in terms of the implementation of the solutions already established for housing, so I am talking about cases where there is already a solution and another is the issue of implementation when we are talking about the adoption of new solutions. I'll just give a few figures concerning the ministry's work results from last year to today on solving those cases where we already have a solution. So in the last year, 455 new housing units were provided for the implementation of the housing programme, close to 300 million kuna was the total execution for housing in the budget. Within these 300 million kunas there are 721 sets of building materials, 402 completed family house renovations IV to VI category, 1491 household equipment with furniture set, 170 renovated apartments in buildings. So these are the results of the period 1.1.2012 to 10.4.2013. And to mention more state property management models. 739 donated family houses and apartments and 573 realised purchases of state houses and apartments. So when we talk about the implementation of the housing programme, it was very much worth the results. The stalemate that took place was with regard to the approval of new solutions. On the one hand, as I mentioned yesterday on the current clock, this was the result of certain checks that we had to do on procedures and revisions of procedures regarding the definition of the list of championships, and on the other hand we must recognise that the situation in the state budget and the necessary reduction of the state budget had to be reflected in some way also in the dynamics of resolving new requirements. Because any approval of new requirements means increasing the obligations of the state budget, and you know how it is in the Law itself on areas of special state care that housing solutions are brought in line with budgetary opportunities. As regards the comments on the APPN, therefore the Agency for Transport and Real Estate Intermediation and Transfer of New Functions to APPN, there was a comment on whether APPN was able to assume those functions, whether it was good to transfer certain functions to the APPN. Now that they're relative to the situation where they're concentrated in one place. So first of all, I would like to point out that the only new function that APPN assumes refers to the assignment of construction material. Everything else APPN already implements and has no fear that the APPN will do this part of the job less than the Ministry of Regional Development. However, this strengthens and centralises the implementation of housing programs in one place, which I think is very good. APPN has a very high experience in the implementation of housing programmes, and no problem will be taking over the role currently addressed to exactly three people in the Ministry of Regional Development. As for the comments on the submission of the documentation necessary to resolve housing care, I must mention the following. Since each year the list is established, again the list of championships is primarily due to the fact that we have two sets of conditions that we always have to take care of. On the one hand, these are criteria that potential users need to meet in order to get on the list of championships on which we determine what number of people is, and the other criterion is the state budget which determines how many persons on the list of championships can be taken care of. Of course, there is then a result of the fact that there are a very large number of demands and a very large number of solutions to budget options mean that a very large number of people who meet the living conditions will not be able to be taken care of in the current year. Next year, there's got to be a new list. Why? For the simple reason that over the course of time of a year, changes are possible in the circumstances that lie ahead when making a list of championships. Of course, it is possible that during the year, people on the list of championships may come into a situation that or fulfil some additional criteria, have the right to some additional points or lose the right to certain points due to the newly created circumstances and thereby automatically influence their position on the list. And therefore, of course, new documents need to be submitted. However, the submission of new documents is regulated in the law in a way that applies only to documents concerning the property situation. Therefore, the other documents do not need to be submitted again. As regards the proposal to amend the law on PPDS and the inclusion of the village of Gacellese and the village of Komarevo. I personally and the ministry absolutely understand that there are situations such as these two and probably many others in Croatia, settlements that were on the first line of the defence of Croatia and which were killed, which were also restored by the basis of the Law on Reconstruction, but which were not included in the Law on the areas of special state care at the time when it was decided, which was '93. A year. '93. The year was established on the basis of which the Law on Areas of Special State Care was then adopted in '96. A year. That was '93. A year. We're 20 years later now. I say again, I can understand that you want to take a certain step to help people in those areas who really died during the war. However, we are in 2013, we stick to the findings and conclusions that have been valid for 20 years and we are in a time when we are ahead of a major reform of establishing an area of special state concern and we really do not feel that there is a rational reason for them to now go individually to expand the areas of special state care at the level of individual settlements. And it is certainly what some MPs have pointed out that in this way resolving the expansion of the area of special state care would cause an avalanche of additional demands and that is not the way. The way is what I said at the beginning to form a unique system of identifying areas that need state aid, which according to key socio-economic indicators deserve the help of the state. Measures such as unemployment rates, such as budget revenues per capita, such as demographic structure, education rates, salary levels. This should be the main provisions for making decisions that need special assistance from the central state in this country. One good news for the people of Komaraev you probably heard will be announced tomorrow. So, it is planned to launch production in Željezara Sisak, planning 300 new jobs. I believe and hope that part of the job will also be given to people from the area of Komaraev, which I think is the best way to help these areas. And that is actually what is crucial if we really want to help those areas that were killed in the war, which are facing a high unemployment rate the best way that we can help them is to provide them with the conditions for additional investment, and that is what we will continue to do further, taking into account, in particular, the opportunities that provide us with European funds. We are already in the ministry through various programmes to support certain areas. In these programmes, we have already applied the development index that we use, which is the sole measure in determining which areas we will help more, and we hope that very soon, especially in the next year when extremely large funds will be available, this stream of new investment in infrastructure, in public infrastructure, in business infrastructure, and consequently private companies' investments in these areas of the Republic of Croatia, which we have talked so much about today, leading to the positive trend and shifts we want, which is the reduction of the gap that is really big and that exists in the Republic. Once again, thank you to all MPs for their constructive suggestions. We'll consider all the amendments and see which of them we can accept. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36372	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and EU funds. Your exposure caused three replicas. The first one is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36373	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's the esteemed deputy I've been listening very carefully to, so I'd like you to maybe answer some questions that I'm going to ask. You were talking about some kind of strategy of the Ministry of Regional Development in terms of the concept of policy towards assisted areas, you mentioned the PPDS mountain-mounted, you didn't say anything about islands, so I would like to hear that we know that there is the Regional Development Act that you are talking about and which is essentially general and exclusively reduced to indexing the entire area of the Republic of Croatia i.e. I'd like to ask, how do you see it, after the 1st of July, the application of these laws? Are we going to end them, are we going to change these laws and give them a whole new one, or are they going to stay in the form they are now, with the indexation and the Regional Development Act, and let's say the area with just say some infrastructure through, or EU funds, loans or anything that comes from the ministry's budget? This is one question because we have a number of questions from the terrain and people are afraid, especially mountainous and mountainous areas where the law was passed in 2001 and it was let's say intended for the Gorski Kotor the most, and then they entered into another series of certain criteria, which is the number of inhabitants per square km, where certain privileges were intended for both the population and local self-government. The indexation does not resolve the question of those other benefits. So that's what people want to know. Shall we, for example, continue to be able to count on free transport, water supply subsidies and all other rights arising from this law, regardless of the indexation or, by entering the EU, we will be left without all of it, and we will exclusively devote ourselves to infrastructure, construction, etc. By the criteria you will then set? And I'd like to ask what indexation this part of yours refers to, is it from 2011, 2010 or 2005, where the Regional Development Strategy is based?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36374	Thank you very much. Here, the Honorable Deputy Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36375	The main instrument intended to help develop less developed areas and other specific areas such as islands will be the main instrument of development programmes. So it's our intensity to move away from the various reliefs of tax and other measures that have been channelled by most of the funds in these areas and first of all turn to projects. So, as much as it is possible to allocate funds to projects that we will thoroughly finance from EU funds to actually create one critical investment mass that will boost development and less developed areas. Of course certain tax reliefs will certainly remain, above all for the public, for sure one part of the fiscal transfers will continue to occur from the central state to local budgets since local units in these areas simply do not have enough original resources to participate in any development projects in their area at all. However, it is also certain that we will review absolutely all measures. So, you now have some absurdities that some of the richest municipalities in Croatia simultaneously enjoy benefits from the transfer of funds from the state budget to local budgets. It's inadmissible and it's not good. It's counter-regional development, it's not small funds, and clearly, with such units, we're going to have to do something. That we're going to have to apply some objective standards because every kuna that goes into, say, the wrong hands at the same time means kuna less for a number of units that are now out of any help system. If you take the development index and pair it from mountain-mounted areas and PPDS you will see that there are a very large number of municipalities, over 100, currently outside the PPDS and mountain-mounted areas whose development index is significantly smaller than the national average. And that's an imbalance, and that's actually an injustice that we kind of have to address. As for the amendment of the Law on Islands, the Law on Islands will certainly remain. So, the islands as special areas will continue to be treated in particular in the law, but of course we will try to revise the measures with amendments to the law in order to increase their effectiveness to really assess what measures are of sufficient quality to be maintained, which measures should be redefined in some way, and we will see if there are measures that should possibly be abolished and replaced by some other instruments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36376	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36377	Well, I don't think the government had the courage to take that decisive step. You well know that the criteria for obtaining EU funds are primarily economic and social. They come from virtually everything. If we do not make these criteria for certain infrastructure projects, it will go to the head of a number of connections or something like that, virtually no PPDS will be able to obtain EU funding under these criteria. When we talk about tax deductions, only with the basis of income tax returns and a practically complete profit tax belonging to PPDS... some 700, 800 million kunas we make from special care units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we wouldn't have had much of this debate today if we had stuck to social and economic criteria who could and who couldn't be in the PPDS. There was a time of pornography when it went according to this, however very interesting that today the suburbs can say about the Croatian concepts of large cities are located in the PPDS which by no means belong and take some of the funds that unfortunately do not come where they should come. Even though we don't have the courage to say it, then we're going to have a very difficult 1.7 show up or some kind of market game so we can withdraw the money. Because Europe will not recognise this sentiment that we are talking about here today, simply the facts, simply the fact. And if we want to lift Banovina, if we want to lift east Slavonia, if we want to lift one piece of like then we just have to do it. And finally, what no one here has said today, many have applied in the PPDS field fictitiously just to make tax reliefs, and it needs to be cleared out as well. From the area, in fact from the list and the list of voters only deleted various people but perhaps we should have deleted these first because they do the most damage to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36378	Thank you very much. The honourable representative will respond... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36379	Here, I can only express my satisfaction that the esteemed representative Shucker agrees with the government's approach to establishing the socioeconomic criteria as the only real criterion for determining the areas that need help. And as for these anomalies that really exist in the system, these are definitely anomalies that last for years, false PPDS residences and other types of irregularities that we will deal with, of course, as well, but still making sure that that part of the population that deserves real help doesn't do any damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36380	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the respected representative of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36381	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, you said the socioeconomic criteria, including unemployment rates and demographic movements in certain areas. Unfortunately, the dead in the clinical dead can't be helped. Here I'll list some places in the Republic of Croatia, I won't look at the territorial structure, now it's here and Slavonia and Baranja, but there's also a lot. Let's start with Slavonia and Baranja: Black Stream, Pavlovci, Lipovac upper, lower and middle, Surevica, place, now let's go to Banovina and Sisak town Zrin, Trgovni, Gvozdansko, Žirovac, Maja, Goraj etc. There's no unemployment there, there's full employment because nobody lives under 65 years old, so you don't have unemployment rates there at all, nor can it be considered at all. This socioeconomic criterion is an ad act for such places that are actually as much as I can pull doves and grandmothers that live there and that's it. So, despite the good intentions and the creation of some kind, not to say a solidarity fund like it was in the former Yugoslavia for such areas. Many of these areas can no longer be helped despite your good intentions. I think we're quite late going into these to say actions or strategies, 20 years after the Homeland War, that is, after the creation of the Croatian state, here's what we have, we have completely empty areas that you can give money to but there's no one there to spend, no one to get a job, so they won't go to work at the ceramics factory in Rujevac at 70 years of age. No more factory, no more factory.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36382	Thank you very much. The next promoter is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak, would you like a closing statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36383	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Associates. Well, I'll be brief, since you said the way that can help this, primarily these two settlements that are now apostrophe is making a complete law. 15 months were an opportunity, this is what we've potentiald, what we've potentiated is harmony, or the problem that comes up now with legalization. These areas are related to it, we can't say that every ministry works for itself, every ministry is an integral part of the government. Is there a possibility that the two ministry bugs co-ordinated, to find a common solution to at least this part of the word, that's number one. And under number two, you're talking about an area which, now you've provided one information, or one information on the launch of production in the Sisak Zeljezara. On 31.12.2011, in Sisak, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Prime Minister Milanovic and Cacic were announced in symbolically over a few months, do you think these people believe more in promises? And this is something concrete that needs to be done because there's no, you know what it is with the wave of people who are from the hardware store, they worked at the Sisak Ironworks, they spent the severances. Now get into some investment from wherever, and legalisation is up to 30.6., it's motivated by that no politics, no, after all, what I said to the ruling majority is making a decision, all the credit goes to them. But it's people, you don't have alternatives, you don't have other jobs, you simply don't have Sisak's whole environment, there's no, there's just no companies, there's no place to work. These people would be happy to come to work in Zagreb only to have money for that. In the end, they say I'm going to be realistic and I'm going to ask for the impossible, so I appeal to the representatives of the ruling to think about this one more time, all the credit can only be to those who make such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36384	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Honorable Representative Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36385	Thank you. Mr. Novak, let's be completely realistic, completely open that, let's say, your settlement has become an area of special state concern, Komarevo has become an area of special state concern and in the 1990s it is still not a guarantee that this would lead to the development of this place. The proof of this is, unfortunately, what Mr. Shantek said to you, mentioning the Iron, mentioning Clay, mentioning Topusco. All these settlements have been from the first day of the field of special state care. What did we get? We have actually received unreally large budgets, regardless of 30% non-employment, 40% of total unemployment, these budgets are greater than many units of local self-government that have unemployment 5% or 4% and we have got there 3, 4, or one mayor, or 3, 4 deputies with salaries that are bigger than us wasteful and arrogant fellows, we have cities that have official vehicles that are much more equipped and more modern than our park's vehicles in the Assembly, and in fact this law on areas of special state care has not received those results that need to be obtained and this actually says that this law is bad and that it needs to be changed. You need to think projectfully, I'm convinced that Komarevo, which is a happy place of life where there is a cultural art society that is active, there's a volleyball club, there's a good elementary school, so there are people who want something. And this action proves that these people want something. So I believe that in this Komarevo there are projects in small and medium-sized enterprises, that there are projects in tourism and I think that Komarevo and all other places should insist on it through its local self-government that such projects are implemented and pressured on the ministry and on its local self-government to create these projects, to create new jobs, and this will be a much greater aid to you than being an area of special state concern.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36386	Thank you very much. Here's the answer, dear representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36387	Thank you very much. Very short. Are you aware that the vast majority of agricultural land in Komare is talking about the rural area, the rural settlement, that the vast majority of today is not even demined, do you think it can be solved by the local community? And this particular move right now is about legalization, okay. adopt a regulation that legalisation is extended for these areas which are crisisous, which are not areas of particular national concern but are crisis, that they are subject to a certain period of time until a final solution is adopted or what you have proposed, the final law. The clean stuff is about a specific settlement, a specific case and talk about it in tourist development, what am I going to take tourists to minefields? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36388	Thank you very much. We ended up discussing the text of these laws. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36389	We move on to the Final Proposal for Law Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Areas of Special State Care, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 325. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 166. I am putting the Rules of Procedure to the vote of the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 110 votes to be cast, the conclusion that we discuss and decide the amendments to the government. The amendments will be explained by Deputy Minister Jaksa Puljiz. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36390	I thank the esteemed vice presidents, distinguished MPs and MPs. The amendment reads as referred to in Article 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. paragraph 2 is replaced by the words "the regulation is prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia". This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Paragraph 10: "The Rules of Procedure shall be prescribed by the Head of the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care" shall be replaced by the words of the Regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.". The explanation of the amendments is as follows. The amendment relating to the regulation of benchmarking criteria for housing claims which are included in the list of championships in Article 9 of the amended Article 12a(2) of the Law is proposed. The amendment concerns the adoption of a sublegal regulation in the implementation of a programme of assistance from the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the return of Croats to Bosnia and Herzegovina, the donation of building materials for the reconstruction or construction of damaged or destroyed houses in Article 9 in the amended Article 12a. in point (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: A bill of law. From the point of view of the legal certainty of citizens, the establishment of this matter by the Government of the Republic of Croatia instead gives greater legal certainty.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36391	I'm opening a debate. Club representatives can participate in the debate. There's no interest. I am voting on Amendment No. 1 Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most of the votes of 85 votes in favour, 20 against and 6 abstentions have been accepted by the first amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the Deputy Minister to explain the second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36392	The second amendment refers to Article 22 in the first sentence: "The Rules of Procedure of Articles 7 and 9." the words ‘the rules of procedure referred to in Article 9 shall be replaced by the words ‘the rules of procedure referred to in Article 9’.". In paragraph 2, "the regulation" is replaced by "the regulations". It is proposed to adopt amendments in order to align the content of the article with the amendments proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36393	I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most of the 86 votes for and 25 abstentions were accepted by the second amendment of the government. Now we move on to the amendment review, we have a table, please also Deputy Minister to declare the amendments. 1st Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36394	The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36395	The amendment becomes an integral part of the law. 2. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36396	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36397	Who's going to explain?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36398	An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36399	Yes, explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36400	This proposed amendment would allow legal housing to be provided for the award of construction material to co-owners in co-ownership, except where such consent cannot be obtained for justified reasons. For example, medical condition or unknown residence of co-owners. We believe that the proposed rule would create assumptions for violation of the right of ownership in certain cases, by giving discretion to the competent authority to decide on the justification of the reason. And so the presumption of liability for compensation for any damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36401	On behalf of the promoter Dragan Crnogorac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36402	Here, thank you. Dear Deputy Vice-President, here we are on the Committee on Human Rights, and we have considered this very proposal to amend and supplement some of the suggestions of the people, and among other things, the new Attorney General, given that we have very many examples of people who failed to submit within certain deadlines because they failed to obtain these consents, but also for the reasons that we have justified, we thought that the law should be complemented by this part that you have now explained and actually refused. We think it will, but with all the changes and additions, we agree that we think they're going in one better light in one better direction. We hope that there may be more opportunities, so we may be able to modify these things and some other ways or regulations, but from all these things, we think that we are improving the proposed changes and additions. Therefore, I request a statement under this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36403	Who is for the amendment of the Club of Representatives of National Minorities which the Government does not accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to the 3rd Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 8(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36404	The government accepts the amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36405	It becomes an integral part of the law. 4th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 10
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36406	The amendments to Article 10 shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36407	It becomes an integral part of the law. 5th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36408	The Government shall accept Article 11. The Government shall accept the amendment of the SDP's Club of Representatives to Article 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36409	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36410	I'm sorry, I'm just saying, he accepts, with the changes in the expressions necessary for the legal clarity of this provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36411	So the new text accepts it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36412	It shall be adopted in such a way that Article 11 votes out: "Article 13(1) adds a new paragraph 2 which is exceptionally referred to in Article 9b paragraph 5 of this Act to beneficiaries who, by 1 May 2013, are residently provided for in the lease of a family home or a state-owned apartment, exercise the right to purchase in full the entire residential area of a family home or a state-owned apartment at the price prescribed by the Regulation referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article." In the current paragraph 2, which becomes the third sentence of the Minister of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Head of the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Management is replaced.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36413	I find Article 5. The SDP representative club accepted in the modified form. Moving to Amendment No. Six. The SDSS representative's club shall be referred to in Article 12(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36414	The Government shall adopt an amendment to Article 12(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36415	It becomes an integral part of the law. 7th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of National Minorities to Article 20
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36416	The Government does not accept amendments to Article 20 below the following reasons, housing claims in which they were not decided which were not updated until 2 June 2012 are not included in the 2013 Championships and in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fields of Special State Care of NN No. 57/2011 was set to be rejected in that case by a solution. All applicants to whom the request has been rejected shall be entitled to submit a new application in 2014. In the event of the adoption of amendments, such requirements could not be made in line with the new criteria which raises the question of the implementation of housing according to the proposed model.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36417	I'm a colleague of Dragan Montenegrins.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36418	I'm pleased with Mr. Deputy's explanation, and I'm not going to ask for a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36419	Amendment number 7 National Minority Representatives Clubs has been withdrawn. Amendment No 8 of the SDSS Representatives Club to Article 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36420	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment under the following explanation, the amendment proposes to exclude applicants for housing care listed in the 2013 list from the completion of the applications submitted. However, Article 9 of the Law amending Article 12a, and in accordance with the proposed amendment 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, gives power to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate the benchmarking criteria according to which the list of the 2014 Championships will be established. Therefore, in the event of the adoption of the amendment, the applications already submitted could not be made in line with the new criteria which raises the question of the implementation of housing according to the proposed model.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36421	Who's going to explain the amendment? Mile Horvat. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36422	Thank you. I'm just going to say that we wanted to avoid the situation with this amendment, that because of the score-sheets already in place, we did not lose in 2013 in their realisation as we de facto lost it because we felt that the score sheets had already been established according to some criteria under the existing law. If you feel that the government regulation will make this solution more qualitative, we accept it and do not ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36423	Thank you. Amendment number 8 of the SDSS Representatives Clubs has been withdrawn. And the 9th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of National Minorities to Article 23 or new Article 24.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36424	The government is proposing to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36425	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the final draft of the law who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most votes 86 for, 23 against and 1 abstentions have been passed a law amending and supplementing the Law on the field of special state care in the text, as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36718	Now we'd move on to the next point, which is 9. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Reconstruction, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 327 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've all received the motion for an act. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No one's answering. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ Representatives' Club first called for the debate. On behalf of the club, the representative is Ilija Filipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36719	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to begin this brief introduction of my short law in a way that we could unite the discussion of this law, the next law, the next point and the previous three points because they have a completely identical goal, which is to bring it into line with the provisions of the Law on the establishment and detachment of ministries and other bodies of the state administration. But here it is, this legislative proposal has kept two basic models of reconstruction, which are the legacy of HDZ governments, and these two models are repairs of objects with damages from the first to the third degree of restoration of objects, and there is still a possible return of funds in repairing or rebuilding the house, as well as replacement of renewed property for adequate real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, and it is important for all those who are still waiting for the implementation of the war-damaged, destroyed material goods for the purpose of returning to areas which during the Homeland War were exposed that we often say to the destructive and truthful actions and the consequences of these actions from the very beginning of the great Serbian Yugoslavia until the end of peaceful reintegration. In this proposal, the act provides in a very intense way data on the total number of fixed housing units in the Republic of Croatia. It is said that by all models, about 150 thousand homes and apartments have been renovated in total, returning about 500 thousand family members to their prewar dwellings. From this data is not visible and it would be good to see it or if the applicant had told us in a certain way how many refurbished objects from one and how many from another model of reconstruction, another model of recovery from the 4th to the 6th degree of damage and how many objects are still waiting on the ram to know how much we need and how much funds. We've seen that the draft budget for this purpose has not been quite issued, so I don't know how this process is going to continue at all. It would still be important to know how much we need until the end of this job if we could say here we finished this process of rebuilding and returning all displaced to our hearths. I know that this is a bill of law amending and supplementing the law, that this is not a report on the work on restoration and that it's practically impossible to hear all these quantifications, but that's why we have a proposing here that, eventually, if the grades were necessary, we could talk about it. Furthermore, the tendency was to believe that this Rehabilitation Act, which he saw, was brought by the Croatian Parliament in '96 and changed and complemented twice in the same year, and in today's changes up to four more times. Its aim is therefore to bring this law into line with the provisions of the current Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of the work of the ministries, namely to position the newly founded state office and to win and to act practically. I believe that these budget items will also find some space for this activity because if we want to continue this activity we must have funds somewhere positioned for such a thing. We heard from the promoter's representatives when he gave the opening remarks on the previous three laws we discussed, we heard that we were expecting the effects of implementing this law in two directions. In one direction, we should get a faster return to pre-war residences and a permanent disposal of users of the first objective and a second goal of creating assumptions for a more effective completion of the overall reconstruction programme in the war of damaged and destroyed housing units and, of course, in accordance with the means available. Now here we come to a small trap, we come to a series of discrepancies or an unclean norm where there is a clean colitision in this now which is the goal, and that is in point 2 and in point 3 where the estimates of the source are spoken of, says that the implementation of this law is not necessary, and then said in paragraph 2 of the renewal programme will be provided annually in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. It was very burning, interesting, and I was told by my colleagues by the morning debate on the rebalancing of the state budget, and I don't know exactly what will be on our benches tomorrow when we vote on what the amendments will be and whether they will be positioned or changed at all. If there is any means, then this is indeed an unsettled provision and does not speak to each other in relation to the objective of this expected effect that I mentioned. The State Office for Reconstruction and Housing takes over the work accurately writes planning, organisation, preparation, supervision of the reconstruction of housing units destroyed by war and in the jurisdiction of that body the transfer and resolution of the refurbishment right in secondary proceedings. I must admit that a very ambitious task has been put into the jurisdiction of this state office, and according to the legal proposal, the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation takes over from the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds some of the jobs relating to the technical implementation of the procurement and reconstruction and construction of housing units for the purposes of the implementation of housing programmes, as well as equipment, food and other documentation, means of work, financial resources and rights and obligations and relatively undertaken jobs, as well as state officials and subsistences found on these jobs. And when a man reads this, he thinks, just think, and what he'll do when these crucial things get out of the resolution ministry, what the ministry will do resolutely about these issues and how it will be implemented at a lower level of the organisational form of the state administration if it can't stay in the ministry, especially if we know that right now while I'm talking about the body that should be realized, it's neither human, nor materially secured by the resources of the state budget. I think it's practically impossible to talk about the law that I said about the renewal without touching the question of the previous three laws or laws that follow us. Because who are we rebuilding for? So for those who have been expelled, scattered, spread out, scattered across Europe and around the world in hundreds of countries. So the people of BiH say that 2 million 200 thousand people have been displaced into hundreds of countries in the world. A large part has passed over Croatia's soil, a good part has been kept in the Republic of Croatia and today it is here and still do not know when and where it will finally be returned or will leave its bones in the white world. I said that this law goal was not to bring about anything special and anything important, so I think it could have been in a package with these remaining four laws, and so I would say a few words about regional co-operation on this issue regarding the restoration and return of displaced persons, therefore, on this issue. Since during the Homeland War in the Republic of Croatia and the wider area also affected by aggression, this nation has therefore survived our fate, has been debated and displaced in BiH alone more than 3 million and BiH, Montenegro and Croatia, so more than 3 million people have been displaced outside the borders. Only four countries in the region have mentioned this in earlier laws, discussing, in BiH, Montenegro, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. It is logical that, it has remained and still persisted as a problem for these countries of the region, but also for the European Union. The efforts of the countries mentioned and the support of the International Community, with the aim of ensuring voluntary return and reintegration, as well as the local integration of refugees, you know that one very important Sarajevo declaration from 2005, and then it became a joint declaration for the regional housing programme, making it a commitment to the government's cooperation with the four countries I mentioned. And this joint regional programme consists of 4 national programmes, so each country has its own programme and aims to provide permanent housing solutions for about 74,000 people or for 27 000 households in the five-year period from this to the end of 2017. At least that's how it's in the program. And it would be necessary to provide for this story 584m euros for its realization. The donor conference, which was in Sarajevo last year, we know that 260m euros were secured, of which the European Union donated 230m, and you could see in the bill the program is managed by the Council of Europe Development Bank and in this direction the Republic of Croatia envisaged, prepared and planned to implement three housing models under the national programme: building housing facilities, buying apartments on the market and reconstructing homes for old and powerless persons in order to definitely bring this programme to an end in the Republic of Croatia. All of this is on the trail of intensive interstate cooperation in the region, among the signatories, not witnesses as they often say, signatories of the Dayton Peace Agreement, in order to speed up the open issues of reconstruction and refugees and finally close these issues through the affirmation of the rule of law and strengthening and respecting the rule of law in the field of JI Europe, is in one of these documents that I mentioned. And all this is nice, I'd just like to know from what means to be provided and bring this story to an end to the happiness of all these unfortunate people who are still around the world waiting for their roof over their heads. And I don't expect much from the State Office, the right to tell you, for renovation and housing, because if it works like all the other state offices that someone said the other day in the debate when we were discussing this particular state office, that these state offices have become one impotent body, so where is it simply created then one doubt about the effects of this state office that I'm talking about right now. It's not good to freak out or reorganize something, so both give one very bad effect in the end, and we're doing exactly that thing that's not good with the transfer of powers from the resolution ministries to some newly created state offices and agencies, we're hoarding new employees, we're creating new costs, and we're simply creating a new mistrust in a three-way administration where things aren't going to go faster, I'm sure of it, but it's going to create another problem. Well, I'm certainly not happy that the funds are being fucked, so that's what we heard in last night's debate on the state budget. I'll be very brief. [[Intruder Reiner: Time.]] Related institutions of Croats in BiH and outside, and I am not very happy and that all over 700 000, 750 000 Croats from BiH and from around the world, from the diaspora, will not have the right to vote in this and next elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36720	Thank you very much. The following came to the debate on behalf of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36721	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Puliz with his colleagues and us 20 MPs here. Yes, we deleted 750,000 Croats, not me, but Bauk, but when it was a referendum to join the European Union then they were on the list, now that voting is to be voted on, it is better, it is the electoral body of the ruling. But it's not the subject of today's debate, it's the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Reconstruction, which is being conducted in these afternoons, although I would like it to be in the morning so that it can be a wide-ranging television transmission in connection with this very important topic. Why do I say important things? Before the match between Barcelona and Paris, Saint Germain, which was broadcast by BiH television and PTPC television, so on Cyrillic Radio TV Republika Srpska. I include an earlier programme on the PTPC and a live broadcast on the implementation of a regional programme on permanent solutions for refugees and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. An interesting show, a talker from Sarajevo, Minister of Reconstruction, is being watched by the Minister of Reconstruction and Human Rights. Such a ministry is likely to exist in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and on the other hand, its counterpart from Banja Luka. And the show says that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, for this purpose, the reconstruction of destroyed facilities, housing, refugees, so they call it, refugees and displaced persons, 260m euros were provided through a 230m-euro EU donation, the US 10m-euro and the bank of which a fellow of the Council of Europe's Development Bank spoke 20m euros and hopes for further donations to that end. The application says Sarajevo's construction facility already has 3,000. We're talking 27000 here. It's intentional, so it's planned. Now I'm asking you. Who, in Croatia, should I say a citizen and refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina across our country, primarily in Brod-Posavina County, then in the Carlovakia County and other our border counties, so Croats who have fled and we know that a large number of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina have fallen by these after the war by 300,000. Who knows he has the ability to apply in Bosnia and Herzegovina to rebuild his destroyed or alienated facility or apartment? Did Croatian television and Croatian government conduct a broad debate and inform the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina through the media that they have the right to do so? It's not. It is important that I heard on Croatian Radio the other day that the deadline for extending applications for returnees to Croatia was August 1st. The Croatian government has published this only in this regard. And Sarajevo gentlemen say the deadline for applying for an application in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the deadline for saying May 7th, to translate in May if anyone does not know. That's not even 20 days until May 7th if it doesn't extend. I don't know if it's extended. When I watched the show, it was said on May 7th, the deadline. If this concerns the Croatian government and the Croatian public at all, the media about those people who have either invested their money that they have managed to transfer to the war wind from Bosnia and Herzegovina and have made some byte, house, home or haven't taken care of at all, and definitely, or the APN has given them some object in Krnjak so they can't buy for 100,000 euros to work 100 years in Krnjak to keep sheep from APN. Does anyone worry about informing these people that they can have their own house in the country they've escaped from that they'll have, the money I'm going to give them, from this 260 fund, for the time being, 260 million euros. No, it's not in someone's interest and that's the problem here. Renovate. It says here that the goal is to restore a sustainable return. What does a sustainable return mean? Sustainable means a man can be held there, that he can live there when he comes back. He can't be held if he eats his own house, and that's all he has left because there's no work to do. A sustainable return. What does "sustainable" mean? For a sustainable return to the past rules in Republika Srpska, none of the 1,000 Croats on top of their heads have returned, and 30% in the Posavina area, etc. And more than 30%. Secondly, today in these areas, we talked earlier about how it was a wasteland, a demographic wasteland with a border along Bosnia and Herzegovina. Cettingrad except for that Shaman Hodak who hit even Sanader with some things, so we've got some other couple of miles of Claudou in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a country that we consider to be an economic, economic and political after Dayton no state, but you have 45,000 inhabitants there, before the war was 15. Today is 45,000. Cetingrad is almost gone. Well, Klasum was caught up with Sisak, and in Bihaq you have a university. Bihac has 100,000 inhabitants, like Osijek. Who would have thought that today a Bihać is a population like Osijek or Bijeljina, for example. What does that mean? Has anyone run the wrong policy to make it so. What have we done? In Brod-Posavia County lives 25,000 refugees freshly to say after this Homeland War escaped from Posavina. Some have not solved their housing problem. I believe that many don't even know that there is this fund in Sarajevo or in Banja Luka, they share what I know in what way and what ratio I can get my houses back. It was also said literally to repair their facilities that still exist, and they do not, and the devastated have no windows, doors, not even cables, installations. They took everything they could to those who live there now. They have the right to 8,000 euros. For the rebuilding of the facility from the beginning, they are entitled to 15000 euros from the foundation. Who knows that here in our public, and we have, how many refugees and displaced from Bosnia and Herzegovina in Croatia. And we all keep our mouths shut and it's an afternoon transfer. That's why I'm saying it would be good for them to at least hear from me here when no one's going to tell the Croatian government to write in the evening, give an ad to pay for the advertisement on TV, that there's a show about it so people know. No, there's no such thing. Someone's not even in the interest of having it. Now we've come to the restoration of 149 thousand and 600 family homes, which allow for a return of 500 thousand of those members. Now I'm asking you if an object in the municipality of special state care like Kopanica the Great at Slavonski Brod in our county tells me to the host who is building a house because it's written on it by Ciglan Kikinda, that the gravel was driven across from Bosnia because the man who brings the gravel can't buy the gravel, can't take the gravel out of our stranger, but the Bosnians take it out and ours and their gravel and sell it to us, that the brick also came from Bjeljina because it says it has a brand on bricks. There's a lot of irregularities, so we've been able to do business since... but someone's doing business, but they've gone into private pockets in the wrong direction. That's what I've talked about here a few times, and no one's even pulled this HDZ government before it was all about how cheap they were buying materials, and they were showing the state office now before the agency was, is that how they spent the money to rebuild. The ones who got to say the reconstruction concession. And there's been a lot of things. And a lot of money was spent, it's true. Both the Croatian state and Croatian citizens paid it with their taxes. Despite me being here, me and my colleagues warned about what to do. I had the receipts from Kickinda as he drove in from Kickinda, the corpus delicta, but for nothing, everything. Yes, in Bosnia there was a time, Bosnia and Herzegovina, not to forget my Herzegovina, so in Bosnia there was one slogan – each one to his own house. Here they seem to be doing it, and they intend to accomplish it regardless of all three peoples who are. So what now? What about this law? The State Office for Reconstruction and Housing is being set up and we have settled, that is, it says here that about 150 thousand objects have been solved as my colleague said before me and that I heard from Mr. Box yesterday in some other debate that there are still about 15 thousand unsolved cases of which half of them are in the process and half of it has not yet been considered. Well, it seems to me that she was sort of a slow fixer, that there was one stalemate. The stasis is justified by the lack of money in the state budget that decreases it is true. Let me also point out, so that money still declines year after year. However, Croatia is a signator of a joint regional programme together with Serbia, Montenegro, so that I do not forget those who have escaped from Serbia from Srijem, etc. and came to Croatia, so with Serbia, Montenegro, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are the signatories of what I was just talking about. And all four signatories are all the returnees who, as my colleague said, want a voluntary return, and do not have to have a voluntary return unless they have achieved housing care in Croatia, have the right to their facility in BiH if they have invested their funds. It is important to know what are the conditions for obtaining money from this regional programme in BiH to build a facility. So it's not a condition of exclusive return. And another thing, if a man moved with four underage children at the time of the Bosnian war, he escaped from Bosnia and Herzegovina each of those children have the same right if he is now of age. For it was his house which was now destroyed, and what the family had extended thanks to God let them also have the right to do so. And that's what people here should be told once. I'm not going to tell our law anything, I just wanted to warn you about this fact that's a fact. I spoke to a journalist yesterday, and I can't write it. Oh, yeah? And it's about the MPs of the Parliament not to tell the rich that you can write it, though it's all legitimate artis and by law and all receipts. No kuna has anyone outside the council's pay and what belongs to the law. You can write about it, and you can't write about it. I won't be long, I don't need more time, but really for what he just said, it's gonna be hard for us to resuscitate those areas. I was in Krnjak and personally visited these people, I was in both the Iron and the Glina and the Vojnić and the Castle, the Croatian Kostanica, the Kuruzari, the Majura, all of which I visited as a soldier, i.e. a special officer and, in peacetime, because I was interested in the paths of mine to say war, so I visited those parts. That's sad! Regardless of the new houses that have a tag called the village is so Cosibrod K1, K2 but there are no lights at night in those houses only here and there on weekends come to life. And I don't know, I think Mr. Pugliz will be to you, you'll get the Nobel Prize if you revive those areas or you'll earn it. But this chemistry is hard to go, especially with this understanding and this kind of surveillance towards these parts, towards Croatian people and those who have been forced to avoid, to spread out, etc. And what it says is a sustainable return, it's a floscula, it's a real demagogy. So what kind of sustainable? So you can build him a house in the Uncs, Cosibrod or I don't know where he's got nothing to live on, there's nowhere to do what he's gonna do? He says to the ironworks, so whoever else from Komarev, the grandmother and the dominoes are not going to work anymore, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We'll think more about the law, I didn't want to think about it at all because it should be accepted or not, but we'll think about it a little bit for the final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36722	Thank you very much. Will the Proposer's representative be? Go ahead. Dear Deputy Minister of Regional Development and EU funds Dr Jaksa Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36723	Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Just a few information since it was primarily about the holding budget and the regional housing programme. Therefore, the Croatian Government today adopted an amendment to the state budget, which provides for a 264 million kuna for the newly established office of reconstruction and housing, so that there is no fear that the office will not be able to implement housing programmes. As far as the renovation itself is concerned in this year, a total of 70 million kunas are planned, when I say rebuilding then, first of all, I think about the remaining facilities that need to be restored, it's about, we're talking about a number of 150 thousand objects, there are about 300 other objects that need to be restored. However, there is a periodical need for renewal, for example, of objects that have passed a long time ago, but, of course, in time, there is a need to invest certain funds primarily in buildings, more residential buildings. So 70 million kuna for reconstruction is secured this year, up to today about 14.5 million kuna has been spent, and the rest is of course planned by the end of the year. As for the regional housing programme and this mention of financial amounts for Croatia, a total of 584m euros were planned for Croatia, 120m euros, of which 120m euros were planned to make 90m euros from donor funds and 30m euros were planned for the participation of the Republic of Croatia. To date, approximately 11.5m euros have been provided from donors, and the rest is planned to be provided in the coming years. In total, it is planned that around 7.5 thousand people will be taken care of through this programme in Croatia, the 3.5 thousand families are mentioned, but one part of these families is already taken care of through national programmes already funded from the state budget. As far as information on the regional housing programme is concerned, I would only point out that this information is not true, therefore, that there is no sign of information in Croatia. Only one information, 3.4, was visited in the diary by counterpart Mario Nenadić, assistant minister at the Ministry of Reconstruction and Human Rights of the BIH, so in the Croatian daily where he explained the possibilities for the care of Croats from the BIH, but we must note that this is about the care of people who have not already been taken care of. So that's the principle of regional housing. The users of the regional housing programme can only be persons who have not already been taken care of, and that is why the number of potential users of Croatians from the BiH currently in Croatia, and can potentially be taken care of in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is relatively small, less than a thousand people. That's it, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36724	Thank you very much. The replica was reported by respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36725	Thank you very much. Yes, it is true that Mario Nenadic, therefore from Bosnia and Herzegovina, is a show that I have watched for an hour on CTUC, right, TV show Radio TV Republika Srpska. And it's not true that it's just that only those who haven't solved the housing issue in Croatia are the ones who invested their money in Croatia, they have the right to return money from this fund that I've been talking about since 206, so I've been listening, and I guess I haven't been sitting on my ears, if I'm standing there and you don't wave your head. Furthermore, a Republika Srpska gentleman said the same fund applies to those displaced within Bosnia and Herzegovina. Do we have faces displaced inside Croatia? We have, how come we don't think about it here? They said that he escaped from Glamoc, so the Serbian nationality man left Glamoc or Grahov, came to Banja Luka, and he has the right to housing. What are we doing? And we, we are totally insensitive to our people. There are people who went from Knin, went to Istria, to Zagreb, which I know where everything went. We have internal Croatian migration, not only do we have migration from neighbouring countries or settlements, but we have migration within Croatia, but we don't worry about it, we don't even talk about it. So, if this fund is 560m euros that we are talking about and Croatia has 130m euros at its disposal, and it is undercharged, obviously Bosnia is much better filled with its funds for this regional housing programme. Here I don't know, it's 10% as far as I know the donation so far has come from the planned funds in the Republic of Croatia, for those 7.5 thousand as yet, but this number of 264 million kuna for the office is that for the office or for the same purpose that we've been talking together all day?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36726	Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36727	Or just for office work, so they'll be fine living with 264, if that's just for the office and forming an office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36728	Thank you very much. We ended the discussion of the text of this law. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36729	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Reconstruction, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 327. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like to ask Deputy Minister, colleague Yaksha, to make a statement on Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36730	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36731	It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most of the votes, 85 for, 21 versus and 4 have been abstentions to the Law amending the Law on Reconstruction in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36732	And now we would move on to the following law, the following law is: - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Status of Exiles and Refugees, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 326; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds and the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government. You've received reports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go, dear Deputy Minister of Regional Development and EU Fund Dr. Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36733	Proposal for a law amending the law on the status of pagans and refugees. This legislative proposal harmonises the law on the area of special state care, i.e. the Law on the Status of Expats, Refugees with the Law on Designation and the Part-Circular of the Ministry and other central authorities of the State Administration adopted at the seventh session of the Croatian Parliament 22. March. This legislative proposal shall transfer first-degree procedures in matters of establishing the status rights of refugees, exiles and returnees to the jurisdiction of the Office of State Administration and Countys and the competent administrative authority of the city of Zagreb. By means of a normative solution, the creation of assumptions of impartiality in the conduct of the tasks of that administrative area shall in an adequate manner seek to protect the rights of persons in the status of refugees, exiles and returnees and, in accordance with the recommendations of the Ombudsman's office and the positions expressed in the practice of the competent courts. In the course of the period of adoption of the law in 93 years, the right to recognise refugee, exile and returnees and, in accordance with the provisions of the special regulation, to retain persons of those categories for persons registered in the databases of the competent authority as refugees or exiles, there is a need to redefine their rights and those statuses can no longer be determined by new applications from the entry into force of the amendment of the Law of 99 years. Given the time since the last revision of the status of exiles, returnees and refugees need to carry out a new review of the status of all the databases of the audited persons and an update of the database now managed by the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds. Following the said provision of the laws governing the conduct of the competent authorities and the rights and obligations of the persons to whom a certain status has been recognised and which were applied during the Homeland War and during the peaceful reintegration, it is proposed to delete it as inapplicable because the number of persons in the status of exiles, returnees, refugees from the former 600 thousand on the 1st of March 2013 is reduced to 988 persons. Of these 988 persons 514 persons are in private accommodation, 474 are in organised accommodation, and according to the status of 301 people still have the status of exiles, 104 people have the status of returnees, and 583 people have refugee status. Those persons who have not yet been assumed to determine the termination of status should be successfully integrated into the Community. To this end, a special regulation on housing establishing the priority of providing specific categories of users with the planning of the closure of the remaining facilities and in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth is planned and the regional housing programme plans to finally address the issue of the care of the persons to which this law applies. The following are necessary to adapt the legislative framework for the implementation of those transactions. The establishment of a state office for renovation and housing and the implementation of a regional housing programme will allow for the intensification of the activities of the resolution of the remaining persons in the status of refugees, exiles and returnees in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36734	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the first one will be representative Marija Rapo. Here you go. I forgot to ask if the committee's reporters wanted to take a word for it, but I don't think there are any, so thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36735	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected gentlemen representatives of the Croatian Government. The proposed amendments to the law on the status of exiles, refugees redefine the concepts of refugees, exiles and returnees, and in a different way regulates the responsibility to resolve under the requirements so that they are responsible for resolving in the first instance the public administration's office in the counties, and complaints about solutions in the first instance are resolved by the newly established state office for renovation and housing. No matter what the proposer claims, I believe that these amendments will ensure the effectiveness and expertise of deciding on the administrative area of the establishment of refugee, exile and returnees' status rights, which unfortunately will not happen. All these legal changes regarding the jurisdiction to deal with refugee rights, exiles, and returnees will further slow down the resolution of their status rights and thus address their life problems. At present, there are 15,000 housing claims, of which 8 thousand were processed, but the appropriate solutions are either slow or virtually not issued. In the last year and a half, only 50 solutions have been issued, so I don't even want to guess at how much of this kind of pace it will take to solve all these demands. Obviously, because of all these legal changes and their coordination and expectations and the adoption of appropriate implementing rules, there has been a stalemate in solving these issues for the lives of many important issues. This was claimed by all MPs who participated in the debate in the proposal to amend and supplement the Law establishing ministries and other state bodies of the state administration. We believe that the establishment of this state office is actually a step back in the management of refugees and exiles. In the past year and a half, if there has been such ineffectiveness in solving these problems, which has been in the part of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, which must have been infrastructure and staffed in particular in terms of building and solving the problem of municipal and social infrastructure, we can hardly expect that a state office that has not yet de facto established or has already established, I did not understand well, to contribute to the acceleration of the problem of refugees and exiled. It is really hard to expect that a new state housing office can do jobs that have not been done by the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds. The ministry, apart from the minister and deputy minister, has five other ministerial assistants. One of them is also the assistant minister of housing and status rights. He is in charge of operations carried out by the administration of exiles, returnees and refugees, which has regional offices for areas of special state care in Karlovac, Knin, Petrinja, Slavonski Brod, Vukovar and Zadar. Persecutors, returnees, and refugees who have had to move from house to house three times since 1992 at the end of the country receive an offer of purchases of houses and apartments in which they live or pay rent. After so many years of uncertainty, many could no longer endure, they did not return to BiH either in Vojvodina or Kosovo. They've gone across the ocean from where there's no more going back. But I will take this opportunity to remind us all together that in the last decade, the Republic of Croatia has met the problem of refugees in the worst possible way possible. On the one hand, I was a country victim of aggression faced with the problem of my own exiles, and on the other hand, it was pressured by a large number of refugees primarily from BiH. In 1992, more than 500 thousand refugees and over 300 thousand exiles were recorded according to the MUP. During this period, large funds were spent for the care of exiles and refugees, almost $2 billion including of course health care, education, etc. From that amount, international aid through the then exiles and refugees' office reached just over $200m. This does not involve the assistance of international humanitarian organisations as well as the assistance of domestic organisations or other forms of direct assistance. This great burden and financial effort are hard to find in recent history. The Republic of Croatia has restored nearly 150 thousand housing units, 19 thousand houses have been returned to its owners, while permanent housing has been secured with 35 thousand families. In addition, the Republic of Croatia participated in the reconstruction of 3200 returnees in the BiH area. In addition to rebuilding houses to Croatian returnees in the BiH area, the Croatians also participated in the reconstruction of infrastructure. Unfortunately, however, there was sometimes a lack of gossiping coordination between renovations and infrastructure housing so that some renovations of houses did not follow the restoration of infrastructure while only a few houses were refurbished largely invested in the restoration of infrastructure. All of this is one of the reasons why the return of Croats to BiH is particularly slow to the Republika Srpska area. I will remind you that there were 142 thousand Croats in the area of today's Republika Srpska according to the 1991 census, while there are fewer than 12% of them in the area today, about 8% of the pre-war population. In order to further encourage the return of Croats to BiH, especially in the area of Republika Srpska, in addition to the reconstruction of houses and infrastructure, it is also necessary to ensure employment for returnees, i.e. the source of regular income for the dignity of family life. Without these three parameters, it is difficult to talk about a real and sustainable return, everything else is a partial solution that exhausts human and material resources and does not achieve real effects. Unfortunately, most returnees lack at least one of these three parameters and this causes their justified dissatisfaction and thus sends bad messages to potential returnees. Therefore, if we really want to ensure the sustainable return of exiles especially in the area of Republika Srpska, it is necessary for the Croatians in BiH to focus on the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship for certain environments where people would get employment and that would be the sustainable return. In all this, the role of the State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is extremely important, which should in fact co-ordinate all these activities to achieve a sustainable return to BiH. However, the formation of the State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and its transfer from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to another location took more than a year. In this regard, it is necessary both to co-operate and encourage BiH institutions to engage more than ever in the business of returning Croats to their hearths. Often, the only aid to returnees in their return sites was provided by the Catholic Church in BiH. The problem of returning Bosnian Croats could be more contributed by the European Commission, which should push for the implementation of Annex 7 of the Dayton Agreement in agreement with BiH authorities, as well as enhanced supervision of the fair distribution of European Union financial assistance. The biggest actual enemy in the future for the return of Croats to BiH will be time, given that 17 years have passed since the war, and that they have been in the territory of the Republic of Croatia for 20 years. Unfortunately, Croatian returnees in the last two years are getting less and less support from the Republic of Croatia, a large number of people have contracts, but they have been waiting several years for the delivery of material so that more than 200 buildings in Republika Srpska are waiting for construction material. Let us hope that in the next period, the assistance of the Republic of Croatia to Croats in the Republic of Serbia will be greater because there are about 4,000 demands. For the reconstruction of educational, cultural, scientific and health programmes, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has secured around 100 million kuna in the last five years, of which only 10 million have been targeted for Croats in Republika Srpska. This sometimes seems understandable since Croats in the Republika Srpska area are significant, but not much less than in the Federation area, but in this way, the distribution of Croats in the Republika Srpska area will be even less. For example, only last year, Croatians in the Republika Srpska area were granted a little more than 2 million kuna aid for problematic projects in Tesla and Prijedor, which will be difficult to realise without the help of the local community. The accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union opens up the possibility for many Croatian companies to invest in BiH and to open their production facilities there, which would contribute to the sustainability of the return and survival of Croats to BiH, and thus protect strategic Croatian interests. If it does not work in such a way, I fear that the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union will stop not only the return of Croats to BiH but also contribute to the further migration of Croats from BiH. Finally, although it may be necessary to highlight this at the very beginning of the survival of Croats in BiH primarily depends on their equal constitutional position and institutional and territorial equality with the other two constituent nations. Ensuring the equality of the Croatian people in BiH is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, which also guarantees special care and protection for parts of the Croatian people in other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36736	Thank you very much. There are no other clubs, so we're moving on to an individual debate. She reported for an individual debate by respected representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36737	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I called first of all to express the disdain that this law, like this one, is being passed by an emergency procedure. The applicant calls for the business provision of Article 159, although none of the reasons for the business as mentioned above have been met, and has not made an effort in the light of the law to state that this business condition has been met, but it is not important. It calls for monitoring before joining the European Union, so this monitoring takes another two months. Nothing in the implementation of these laws in those two months is going to happen and can't happen that would be why they are being brought in by an emergency procedure. And even though I might agree with the Law on Reconstruction and there is no reason to go in two readings because it is of a technical nature because it is mostly coordinated by these bodies of the state administration in accordance with the changes in the structure and division of the ministries and other bodies of the state administration. But unfortunately, this business reason does not exist, so I suggest that we amend the Rules of Procedure and add it in a way that we say when it comes to minor technical changes to laws that are not touched by the essence of the law and its meaning politically, then and in that case, the law can be passed in a shortened procedure but unfortunately there are no such business provisions yet. But this second law, which is the Law on the Status of Expatriates and Refugees, is not technical changes, although some authorities are transferred from the ministry to the offices of the state administration and to this Office for Housing and Reconstruction, I think that's what it's called. So, but it's about some fundamental changes and I would say, and maybe it's the interest of both small representatives, although it shouldn't be, we're actually talking today about laws that have weight from the part that's falling out of Croatia, but it also concerns Croats outside Croatia, so of these 584 million kunas that are projected to spend on general housing care in these four countries that are covered by the regional housing programme. A prerequisite for this housing management of course determination of status, personal status. These changes and additions, according to the Proposer, redefine the concept of exiles, refugees and returnees, and how they redefine it in my opinion in a completely wrong way. So, the law so far defined in its article the second term of refugees and exiles, and then he talked about the person who, with the war of the endangered area, escaped from the internal affairs of the Ministry of the Interior, the military headquarters and avoided the immediate danger of living in front of aggression and other armed actions, and now says that the exile in the sense of that law has changed from one place in the territory of the Republic of Croatia to another place in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and the refugee is the one who escaped from the Republic of Croatia abroad. These amendments delete this, so there will be no more definition of exiles and refugees, and changes to the law provide that refugees and returnees are said to be registered in the databases of the competent authorities for the status rights until the entry into force of this law which do not determine the termination of the status. Until the law of this or that law comes into force. In the text as it reads it because the article second, meaning that law, until the entry into force of that fundamental law. And even that definition of defining the concept that the concept is defined by what's in some database. It is possible that you have come there unwarrantedly, and you will now review how you propose these amendments to the law, that you will review these registers, and you have said that you define it by saying that someone is registered in a register. What are you going to audit for when you don't have a basic definition of refugee and exile? For return status, something is said in paragraph 2, but neither this law nor any other I see that no time limit has been established until and how one can decide to be a returnee, that he will return. Is that pro futuro? Now it's been 20 years for the next 20 or 50 years I don't see it from this law. Otherwise, nomotechnicalally unorthodox, it is not technically unusual for certain articles of the current law to be changed, so they are not deleted but changed by a completely different theme. So, which isn't even close to the content of the former article of the law. Therefore, it was not technically necessary to delete these articles, and then introduce a new set that would talk about a completely different content. So here I am if it were to be the first reading I would suggest how it should be done. What is further inadmissible and this is important and it is almost undetected, that the articles so far are about 13 to 20th of the current law established the material rights of exiles. They are now deleted from the law and it is all said that Article 8 of the Head of the State Department for Reconstruction and Housing will now prescribe the conditions for determining the status and loss of status, content, scope and manner of exercise of the rights of persons who have established the status of refugees and exiles, etc. etc. So, to say in the law that they will be left to one head of the state office to adopt one regulation that will establish and prescribe conditions for determining status and loss of status, so the status rights of citizens are inadmissible. Paragraph 2 says the Government of the Republic of Croatia will by decision determine the type and level of financial support for persons, and this could still be, that the Government determines by decision the height and the species, although I, I think, should determine only the height and the type of the law. So I think it's inadmissible. The conditions for review, therefore for eradicating certain acquired rights, therefore this should certainly be governed by the law and I am surprised that none of the MPs notice it in this Croatian Assembly. Furthermore, I note that Article 5 states that the authorities responsible for resolving the procedures laid down in this law are authorised under official duty to request data from official records and other state bodies. No matter why a special law gives that authority when they are unauthorized, but they are obliged by the ZUP to do so, they must do so by the ZUP and if they do not then violate the ZUP, and we hereby give them a special authority by this law that one state body may ask another state body to give him information from its records. So completely unnecessary. I see that in these articles you change with a completely different content, or not a different content, but a topic that wasn't in the former articles of the same numbering. It says, for example, the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing provides protection of housing data from the electronic database on refugee status rights, exiles and returnees in accordance with specific regulations, etc. and their availability with a reasoned request and so on. I also don't see why there's special protection for this register when we have the Personal Data Protection Act where it's known how to handle personal data from a register owned by information owners. So here. But since it is a final proposal that cannot be intervened, it is impossible to intervene with the amendment menu I am extremely sorry because it seems to me that everyone should be in the interest that we have quality and enforceable laws and therefore I am sorry that this did not go into two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36738	Thank you very much. That's what we ended the discussion. And on behalf of the promoter, the closing word will be given by Deputy Minister of Regional Development and EU funds Jaksa Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36739	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I must say that some of these suggestions we have just heard from our colleague Lovrin will certainly be considered. Therefore, first of all, I would refer to Article 8 where it is said that the Head of the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing provides for conditions for determining the status and loss of status and content, scope and manner of exercise of the rights of persons who have established the status of refugees, exiles and returnees. So that's where we go with the change in the way that through the Government of the Republic of Croatia conditions are prescribed for determining the status and loss of status. And as for the questions of the base, so our position is that the base really includes all those people who still have that status as exiles, returnees and refugees. So, it is about less than 1000 people and it is not really possible for a new case to appear in that status, but the only thing we need to do is to make sure that it is more precise and changes to this law and doing so is to specify the end of the established rights and amendments to Article 4 that have been made, more precisely and more qualitatively, to define provisions that end the status of refugees, exiles and returnees. The rest of your suggestions will be considered and we will see if there is any justification for putting them in amendments to this law. We thank you for your suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36740	Thank you very much. We have a replica of Anne Lovrin's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36741	Thank you very much. Well, I'm glad you're gonna think about some suggestions, but here's why I'm sorry this isn't the first reading. If this were to be the first reading, we could do much better to streamline certain provisions. I don't think that's the solution, that's certainly a degree higher, or better than what's now in the law to be a regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but I don't see any reason why the Croatian Parliament, within the framework of the legal text, shouldn't, or should lay down those conditions. I was quite well-intentioned about the definition of concept. So, he could have stayed quite calmly, could have remained the current definition of refugee and exile, it would have been necessary and for the purpose of reviewing who it was or is not a refugee and exile and defining who is in the register or not in the register, of course, those who met those conditions are in the register and have not been deleted. So probably all those who have consumed their rights from refugee or exile status are then or should at least be deleted from this register. Here, not to say again, I think the existing formulation was better and it was good and you could have solved the revision and the other provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36742	Thank you very much. There's no answer? No need to answer, thank you very much. Yeah, we see how unhappy it is sometimes when he insists on an emergency procedure. But in any case, with this, we'd end up discussing the text of the law. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36743	Final draft law amending the law on the status of exiles and refugees, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 326. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 166. I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that, with 86 votes in favour, 20 against and 4 abstentions, it is concluded that we are discussing and deciding the amendments of the Government. I'd like Deputy Minister Jakshu Puliz to explain Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36744	The government is proposing the following changes. In the amended Article 2(1), the following words are deleted before the entry into force of this law: until the date of entry into force of this law, they shall be replaced by the words: by 1 May 2013. In this way, the provisions defining the concept of exiles and refugees and the obligation to verify the records proving that status for the purposes of nomotechnical processing and expression shall be amended.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36745	I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I am voting Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most votes, 84 for and 23 against, were accepted by the first amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please explain Amendment 2 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36746	The amendment referred to in Article 12 shall read as follows: in paragraph 1: the Regulation referred to in Article 8(1) of this Law, the Head of the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care shall be replaced by the words: the Regulation referred to in Article 8(1) of this Act by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The explanation is as follows. Instead of the regulation of the head of the body responsible for implementing the rules, greater security would be achieved where the conditions for determining status and loss of status and the content, scope and manner of exercise of the rights of persons established by the status of refugees, exiles or returnees, as well as the procedure for carrying out the audit referred to in Article 11(1) of the Regulation were prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Article 12 is also laid down in the deadline within which the Government of the Republic of Croatia will adopt the said Regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36747	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most votes, 83 for, 22 against and 1 abstention, have been accepted by the 2nd amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We move on to the amendments submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. First, the Committee on Legislatives, Amendment 1 to Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36748	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36749	It becomes an integral part of the law. Both the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the amendment to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36750	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36751	It becomes an integral part of the law. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most of the votes, 81 for, 6 against and 18 abstentions, have been passed the Law amending the Law on the Status of Persecutors and Refugees in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36752	And now we'd move on to the next law. That's 3. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 241; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You've also received reports from the board. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you are, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Young Mrs Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36753	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here are very few sentences about the second reading of the Law on maternity and parental support. We are in line with the directives, i.e. legislation and with the acquis of the EU. This law harmonizes the duration of parental leave of an employee and only an employed parent, the transferable and non-transportable part of parental leave and the conditions for the use of parental leave by one parent, the duration of adoption and parental leave for adoptive parents, regardless of the age of the adopted child and in accordance with changes in the duration of the application of parental leave, shall be equal to the amount and compensation during the application of each right, respecting the total level of rights so far. This law will create conditions for a slightly greater involvement of fathers in the care and care of children. According to the first reading, it is noted that the compensation for the entire duration of the parental leave is determined at the same amount. It is also noted that further in the complaint the Directorate of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance is being resolved as it is governed by the applicable law. Given the large number of complaints and the fact that about one quarter of complaints are adopted, so that the courts are relieved and the parties come faster to the achievement of all rights. Here's so, very short on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36754	Thank you very much. Here, we heard a brief explanation. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We've got a replica. I'm sorry. I didn't see the replica. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36755	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, I just have to react to this because I'm simply repeating it several times, so maybe I'm boring to some, it's not true that these amendments to the law, because they don't really have, they don't have any important changes, and even here, that this law creates conditions for a slightly greater participation of fathers in raising children, as you said because of the bill, the proposal for this law is that parental leave is the second part. A leave of 4 months for the mother, 4 months for the father if the father does not decide to use his 4 months the mother can take over 2 months from that, so we come to this parental leave of 6 months. In the current law, the provision follows, that 6 months of 3 months to the mother, 3 months to the father, they can agree which of them will benefit, but if the father uses 3 months, so even a more stimulating measure for the father is in this existing law because for the mother to receive an additional 2 months bonus, in order to reach these potential ones, in order for them to reach a potential total of 8 as it is now, the father must use at least 3 months. So if the father uses 3 then the mother gets 3 extras, so let me make it simple. What's in current law 3+3+2 now is 4+4, the sum is both in one case and the other 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36756	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here, the intensity of the amendments and the addition of the Law on maternity and parental support, we heard this and from the minister was encouraging fathers to use parental leave. And we at HNS think it's good for fathers, we think it's good for mothers, we think it's good for their children. We believe that taking part in childcare or childcare from the first day on will significantly reduce conflict and dissatisfaction among partners who often result from the mother’s feelings of overwork and father’s misunderstanding because the first year of a child’s life is the time after a child’s birth is a clear time of great happiness, but also a time of stress, a time of great stress for parents in which it often happens in the first year, so the lives of a child are falling apart just those marital or extramarital relationships. We are aware that today's fathers do not have a very long tradition in the role of parents who are responsible for raising and caring for children and household jobs because their traditional role did not include that kind of responsibility, but life, lives of women and men as we know change, family relations change, labour market relations change, and laws change, or we change them. So the Family Law but also one reasonable, one fair, one collegiate, one partner relationship and approach determines that parents equally, jointly and agreedly care for the child or children. However, the fact that the percentage of fathers in Croatia who used or used parental leave is measured in prominence shows that the promotion of gender equality requires much more work, not only in the public sphere but also in the family sector. Although men today work in the house more than 50 years ago, or 100 or 200 years ago researchers claim and statistics show that the process of slow adaptation is. that men and women negotiate more slowly on the new distribution of home affairs than women enter the world of work, and unfortunately for women's damage. There is still prejudice that the family is placed as a woman's thing, and child restraint is also a duty, but also a privilege of both parents, and therefore even discriminatory in relation to the father, we can consider some existing provisions or prejudices that commit the mother and give the father the opportunity as if in this most difficult but even most beautiful job in the world, which is to be the parent's father has no equal obligation, as if he doesn't have the same rights. The benefits that the Government has given parents in 2011 to amend the law that we are discussing today by adding, among other things, 2 months of parental leave if the father is with the child for at least 3 months a year. She increased the number of fathers on parental leave, but significant changes did not, unfortunately, occur. We hope that these additional changes will change that. And we at the HNS will closely monitor the impact of the law on parents' decisions. And if the next period shows that these options passed by law did not encourage fathers to use parental leave we will have to propose some different methods, perhaps apply provisions or examples of some countries that have prescribed that parental leave be required at least in one of their work, perhaps 10 or 30 days, a month, two for both parents, therefore mandatory for both father and mother, both for fathers and mothers. In an ideal society, in which gender equality would truly enjoy parental leave, both parents would benefit, but processes like we know shifts in the improvement and quality of society take place very, very, very slow and small steps. We think that this amendment of the parental support law is a small yet significant step in this direction and therefore the HNS club will support the proposed law. We will also support it because the law provides for what we particularly welcome and equalising the duration of adoption and parental leave for adopters regardless of the age of a child. Of course, this is not crucial and it will not be crucial in the decision of those who want to adopt a child or children but it is simply more fair because like other families and they are getting another member of their community. The adoptors, as we know on the way to the desired child, face many bureaucratic problems, and therefore we are pleased to hear announcements from the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth that are currently making many changes that will facilitate and speed up the adoption process. Recently, as we know, a unique register of potential adopters in the area of the Republic of Croatia, which we hope will help many future parents and children to achieve their dream, has been built on the basis of social care centre data. But even after a long - term and often psychologically difficult adoption process, problems may arise because many are the challenges that foster families face. For example, difficulties during child and family adjustment, difficulty in creating attachments, the question of developing a positive identity for children who are in some way rejected by biological families, the question of feelings of abandonment or uncertainty that some children may be going through. All these possible questions, i.e. problems are not insurmountable and need them, for them it takes of course a certain time, whether or not they have adopted children for two, three or four years. Therefore, it is good that the time of parental leave for adoptive parents increased or evened with parents regardless of the age of adopted children and thus allowed parents who adopt slightly older children who may need even a little more time to adjust to spend enough time with them in this as we know the sensitive time after adoption. This is also proposed by the Associations to support adoption in the public debate on the draft law we are talking about today, and it is good that these proposals and the intensities are accepted in one good way, one good intention is understood as well as we in the HNS club understand the good intentions of this law which, among other things, harmonizes our legislation with European legislation which retains the existing level of law and improves the possibility of fathers and therefore we will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36757	Thank you very much. The next speaker will be Djurdjica Sumrak's representative on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36758	Here's an esteemed colleague and a colleague of mine, just as we were yesterday little when I was talking about rebalancing when we were up to 1 and something, of course none of the interested public even published the press, none of us in today's texts in 24 or protected us. I hope that the President of the Parliament and the Vice President will still respond to this kind of shoeing towards all of us MPs and MPs, of course. And here today is this Law on maternity and parental benefits, and as we always see the same faces, and I think we can already start and socialize privately as much as we hang out here in this assembly, and it might not be good, because we seem to be the only ones interested in some things. Here is the last time I said that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was also an article of Article 64 that Croatia was committed to the special protection of motherhood, children and young people and the creation of social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions that promote the right to a decent life and give special attention to the protection of parents and parents. All measures in the area of family population, health, tax and economic policies should in reality strengthen the family in fulfilling its unique social role and provide all possible support for child care. And now we've come in reality to family and, of course, to children. Here I was just talking about that all the measures that are tied up must be related to giving strong support to the family. Unfortunately, however, because of the crisis and also because of politics, this will now look a little political or political, but I have to say that today, 40% of young people are on the market, 40% of the total number of unemployed people, and there are around 370 and some thousands, that 40% of young people. Well, then it's no longer worth the fax-to-work stuff, unfortunately they're going from college to the stock market. Those who work seem to me like we're gonna be working until we're 67, 70, who's gonna be less fortunate, you're gonna be driving from work to a cemetery. Those who are retired can have a hard time living from that pension. They'll hook themselves up somewhere else, I guess. I have to say from my own experience, but from the experience of my acquaintances, today children live with their parents because unfortunately they can't afford to pay for their apartment at all, they can't even get to a state of mind, let alone something else because they don't have work to do, so they're all tied up to each other and then. Unfortunately, everything is collected from the directors, VAT at all, food has been collected, and I must say that there is a general hopelessness in our Croatia that is really beautiful and I really think that we should do and do our best to make sure that in this Croatia everyone wants to live and I think that there is much more to be done and that there is no need to spread some catastrophic spirit. But unfortunately it's hard not to tell the truth, we need to be aware of the truth so we can work on what we really want to improve. We also know a lot of young people who have jobs and who are in a good business, but there are young people or married couples or in a married or out - of - wedlock community who have other priorities. First they want a good apartment, a car, a career, kids come to the last place and usually when they start thinking about children then it's already too late because women are no longer of childbearing age. Unfortunately, Croatia has a very bad demographic picture and it is expected when the borders are opened and when we enter the EU and we need to be afraid and we need to keep these same young people, we are afraid that these young people are not leaving. I personally don't think he's going to leave because it all depends on how we raise them at the puppy and that they will still stay in our Croatia. Well, this is exactly how one birth and parental compensation bill was first passed in '94, so then the amendments and additions and different legal regulations that were introduced into it were made. But in 2006 the Government of the Republic of Croatia also ordered for the first time a scientific study which is the fundamental features of the democratic development of Croatia, which was as one balance of the 20th century, but this was first adopted in its history and strengthened the population policy programme, in 2006 the population policy programme is still valid today. We hope and I said this last time that there will be a new programme of national population policy. And it is precisely the Law on maternity and parental support that one of the important laws I would say, but also the most important one that came into force on 1 January 2009, which included in its content all the basic rights of employees, self-employed, unemployed mothers and parents. He referred to maternity leave and benefits prescribed by the Labour Act, the Law on maternity leave for mothers who carry out their own activities, unemployed mothers. Moreover, a whole new way of applying all rights and rights to adoption leave was prescribed in the law. This was for the first time in 2009, this law, which is still valid, until this law enters into force, a birth benefit is a means to most parents who help them to get over the period when their life costs are almost doubled because of this little, beautiful newborn. Although this is not any addition to parents' incomes so far, it is an amount that substitutes the mother's net salary over a certain period. But I would say that at that time one of the major papers of the law was also sharing leave on maternity and parental. We've already adopted these terms, so I'm not going to tell you about them now that I don't owe you any more in the debate. Today we have a law and a final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Birth and Parent Assistance, which we can say that these changes are not great because exactly this is what my colleague Lovrin was talking about: 3+3+2 and 4+4 but we must be pleased that the Government left existing parental rights which, in the opinion of mothers or parents, are minimal because they hope that in some better times, they will be able to achieve greater rights and I am sure that they will. This proposal amends the existing law in the section relating to the duration of parental leave in order to comply with the provisions of the EU Directive and the part of the equalisation of the duration of adoption and parental leave for adoptors because of the proposal's opinion that this will improve and speed up the adoption of children. It is because of the leave after the child's birth that will take 14 months, 6 months will last parental leave, and the parental leave of the current 3+3 I said on 4+4. However, the father will be able to transfer half of his parental leave to his mother. It is precisely because of the financial situation that many fathers now have passed their parental leave on to mothers, so there are some data that last year only about 500 fathers in all of Croatia used the right to such benefits offered by such a law. Since the fee for an additional two months is even lower, the question is how many fathers will benefit from the provisions of this law because they will benefit in reality from those who have less wages than their wives or who do not work, precisely to get some compensation. In the end, I won't really owe it because last time we talked all about that law, so what I'd say would happen again and read the same things in the phonogram. But in the end here I would like to say that in some ways I am sorry that the family is for us, for me personally, and for us in HDZ as a party is a cornerstone. He's actually the source of everything. And I'm sorry that the Ministry's title in reality left out that it's also the family ministry because I think it really should have stayed that way and that it would have shown in some way that everyone else and we appreciate the same family we came from a lot more. However, the situation of a family in modern society is becoming more and more difficult and therefore they need to be encouraged to learn about their irreplaceable role and to accept it by witnessing in society the beauty and joy of both marriage and family life, as well as parenting. And here I would just end this debate with words, that is, with a message from Pope Benedict XVI on the occasion of 1. The national meeting of Croatian Catholic families held in Zagreb on 5 June 2011, very short, very summed but so good a message, said the family be brave. I think it has a lot to do with the whole situation in Croatia, given the difficulty of living in view of all the doubt in all this is really a message from the Pope Benedict of the family be brave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36759	Thank you very much. The following will take part in the debate on behalf of the Croatian Labour-Stranka Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party, the distinguished representative Nancy Tyreli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36760	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with assistants. My dear colleague Sumrak, I'm very sorry not to have just a few MPs, now I've been trying to calculate the percentage, there's a little less than 10% of us so I can make it easier for these journalists to write these reports, from parliamentary representatives, but I'm glad that there are 56% of women, so at least let's have more women somewhere than men and be it in such discussions. At the Prime Minister's meeting today, he seemed to have told me and instructed the ministers to come to the current watches, that they had to discuss and answer questions at the current clocks and that they could no longer come to their deputies, so here you might just tell the Prime Minister from this pay phone that for the second time in the cabinet session he also told the ministers that they would listen so that they knew what to answer because while you fellow Members of the Sumrak spoke to you very little. Minister, I'm sorry, but here I have followed and seen what I think is not good if we want to be constructive, if we want to make quality, bring quality and how satisfying the laws. I'm going to talk about this law very briefly, given that we've analyzed it a lot in his first reading. I am particularly pleased that the applicant accepted the proposal discussed and presented to the Committee on Gender Equality, that Article 9 amending the items of Article 24 is accepted, which is paid for the full period of application of the right to maternity leave of 100% of the basics for full-time wages that cannot be more than 80% of the budget base. And certainly this practice justifies the work of all committees and all those who listen to the profession and, in this case, civil society organisations that are certainly most competent to point out indeed the problems that exist. The applicant heard, among other things, the presentation of fellow Lovrin at first reading, which in the debate pointed to the need to enable the lodging of an appeal to the first-degree solution of the competent body of the institution in whose territory the applicant has residence or permanent residence in such a way as to resolve the institution's directorate as governed by the provision of Article 45 of the applicable law. This practice, however, shows how important it is for the laws of the Assembly to go through regular procedures, to be discussed in two readings, because only such practice justifies the meaning of both MPs and the Parliament itself as an institution. The practice of passing laws by emergency procedure and the practice of not accepting amendments is not good because it brings only one side and least for citizens. With this law, we have also made a major step towards equalising the duration of adoption and parental leave for adoptors regardless of the age of adopted child. But I wonder how much this means to us in this devastating truth of adoption travel through a maze of the indifference of everyday practice. Since this is the third law, or amendments to the laws that come to the Parliament of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, I will use this debate and the presence of our minister to point out this very big problem, which is only adoption. In Croatia, we have about 650 people who have been assured from their respective centres that they are similar to foster parents. At the same time we have at the end of 2012, at least we had, fresh data I don't have, 1170 children in children's homes without parental care and their concerns are in the budget item for this year planned funds of around 80 million and 600 thousand kuna. Last year, it was based on 84 adoptions. Social care centres burden the spending side of the budget with 227 million kuna. On the other hand, there are 650 potential adoptors who have to send letters to all these centers, more specifically to ask them if there may be a child in their area without parental care that they may be able to adopt. It practically looks something like this. Parents who want to adopt the child write a request and send it to 119 addresses of centers and branches, and parents have to send their application to all centres because people simply, potential adoptors do not know where a child is left without adequate parental care. If we assume that every single letter with an envelope and a stamp costs about six kunas, it turns out that your parents spent about 700 kuna each month for requests. The annual cost of future parents is around 8500 kuna, but most of them send their requests as recommended shipments to make sure they actually arrive at so many desired addresses, then spend about 14000 kunas a year and do not complain about that and such expenditure as I do, but we all complain about the practice of a centre that does not even fit these parents to respond to that request, and yet none of the parents knows whether these requests for a child sound ugly, but simple practice has come to us at the address of the competent centres. Why is it even important to make those requests? Because it is the only way that the centres know if the citizens are even interested in adopting children, because when they get into a situation to have a child, then all these requests are summed up at the child’s competent center and become the only criterion for parents to have a good or bad potential adoptor. Sad, miserable and destructive for all those parents who want to become foster parents. We have parents who have waited ten years to adopt a child and have simply no tools to reach a child except good will, good relationships and good, good lobbying with directors, or social care directors. They must know all the directors and directors of all these centres in Croatia in order to have any hope of knowing about them at all, because whether their requests are archived or thrown into the basket they simply don't know because the confirmation of receiving such a request simply never received. That's how long we've been talking about the adoption register, where we'll see exactly who's waiting for the child and who's got the right to the championship. What is it that gives someone at a social care center or in the ministry itself the right to say which is the man who wants a child and who gets all the confirmation that he can be a potential adoptor, better to adopt a child from someone else. This year, the system of information and maintenance of the social care system will be spent around 4 million and 600,000 kunas, and here I fully hope that these funds will be sufficient that this register between the centres and the ministry will finally be promoted, that we have a single register in which we will know the rules of the game thanks to which there will be some right of the championship to say so and that these parents who once entered the register as potential adoptors will have at least such information when it comes to order and that then this statistics on how many children there are in their homes in relation to the register that will tell us how many potential adoptors they can respond to their parents for how long or so they can become a happy adopter. The Croatian Labour Club will support these amendments to the law because here is simply how many changes are small bring better things and bring better things and certainly all that is good and better to be commended.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36761	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, colleague Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36762	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Minister of Associates. The SDP Club accepts the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support. Here are the comments of the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and are, of course, within this final law. We support him because he protects motherhood. We can also say that one of the elements of the most innovative policy is very important, facilitating the harmonisation of family and professional obligations. The aim of this law is actually to make parenting a better and easier start. This law regulates and harmonizes the duration of parental leave of a self-employed parent. In this way, all parents are treated equally, the transferable and intolerable part of parental leave is prescribed, the extension of the minimum duration of parental leave from three to four months for each of the employees and self-employed parents, and the inability to transfer two of the four months of parental leave to another. Of course that was the most common case for the mother of the child. It should be believed that it will be an incentive for fathers to, in accordance with their work obligations, still one part actually be with the child, gifts actually to their family. This legislative proposal also allows parents to extend childcare for an additional two months in accordance with their needs, or their decisions. There's also adoption, and here's a colleague outside talking about the issue of adoption. In this way it is actually encouraged, children with developmental difficulties are included, the duration of adoption and parental leave for foster parents is equal regardless of the age of adopted children. The facts say that in our tradition the mother is usually the one who is expected to be with the child most, to be with him from the first moment of his life and of course the truth is that the mother is extremely important to the baby and no one can make up for it. However, it is equally important that the father is a very important link in this because I cannot say the burden of parenting but the beauty of parenting should be evenly distributed. As legislators, i.e. the state, I don't think we can afford to ask our father to use parental leave legally to make it a commitment. My colleague mentioned it earlier as a suggestion. However, we should encourage the creation of such a habit. And I think that this is the way we do it because father's involvement in the first day of the month is very important, and we need to encourage her to repeat these changes and additions and do it again. Of course, men are usually better paid than women, thus surely the financial situation in the family dictates the use of parental rights. The creation of good habits and customs is now going through better support and conditions if fathers decide to use parental leave, which is essentially part of it and bring this second reading. However, the incentive will be greater when conditions are created of course. It is often heard that the first three months of a child’s life are actually a mother and child in symbiosis. The role of a father can often be seen from three sides. What has always been is that most fathers need to take over financial care for the family, but psychologists and I think that all of us who have some experience think that the role of fathers is actually interactive as soon as possible, that the role of fathers should be seen through the interaction of fathers and children, and very important that it is more and more young parents are conscious, and that is the role of family dynamics. In fact, the father and mother interacting with their relationship actually influences the development of the child. Therefore, the importance of the full presence of parents during the first days of a child’s life does not need much to be explained but equally the presence of parents in adoption and the possibility of being present regardless of the age of a child with him to actually be easier to move from some institution to a family, to make it easier for him to be integrated into a new family, I think it is very important that they be also adopters with their children at that time. At first, I said that the law is intrinsic, of course, it's not the end of creating and strengthening an intelligent policy here, but that policy needs to be constant so that we can actually be better able to mitigate these negative effects of natural growth. I can conclude that, by harmonising with European regulations, this law brings already mentioned encouraging changes that will stimulate the change of habits and certain attitudes and make a child's life that is always more quality, more joyful, more happy, just as it should be. I repeat, this law protects motherhood, facilitates the harmonisation of family and professional obligations, encourages birth and enables greater participation of fathers in early raising and child rearing. And in the end, one thought that might eventually come into some law, which is that I think that just the first month of life is very important for him to be a father to his mother. Just for the first month, to feel the first sleepless night and the first cry and the first cramp small and first bath. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36763	Thank you very much. Replica has a colleague named Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36764	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament. Respected and esteemed colleagues of Tatjana, you said that we as legislators couldn't prescribe something, and I assume you meant both parents' obligation to use parental leave in at least one part of it. We can prescribe it, but obviously we don't want to prescribe it so far. Some countries, and here in Europe, want to do so, and they can, for example. Sweden prescribed this a few years ago, and it proved to be a good law, a good wish because after that legal obligation, the number was reduced and I will say the breakdown of marriages and extramarital communities in the first year of a child’s life. I think that's what we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36765	Replication response, Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36766	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Members, I think we're thinking the same thing, that it's a need and that one day it'll come. But with us, this is not yet the time, this is the first stage when we need to work on raising awareness and giving the possibility that those who can do it, who want to do it, or who can do it in view of and at the end of the day, that they can do it. And there will come a time when in fact, and it may not actually need to work legal frameworks, perhaps it will work itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36767	Thank you. We're moving on to a debate, an individual debate. First of all, she's a colleague of Anna Lovrin's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36768	Vice-President of the Parliament, Madam Minister with his associates. Well, here's what I've reported for this debate, first of all, to take advantage of the opportunity to point out some other questionable or unresolved situations and beyond this very law, but somehow connected to it. And here's to commend, to commend the ministry and each time the legislator points out the proposals for legal texts in the 2nd reading. And here is this law, which apparently was small and minor changes, has seen its improvement, so to speak of the satisfaction of mothers and fathers to whom it will apply. First of all, I would like to thank the applicant for taking into account our remarks concerning the authorisation of an appeal for a first-degree solution, and for the optional reference to the court and to the administrative dispute and the equally adopted remark which returned this fee referred to in Article 24(2) to the existing legal solution, so that it should be in full amount, not 80%. As I said about the use and duration of this parental leave, it basically remains the same, I don't know if psychologically this is anything 4+4 different from that 3+3+2. It may somehow suggest and encourage fathers to use it. I don't think so yet, and it wouldn't be good to force the fathers to use that leave. It may be so in Sweden, but it would be interesting what kind of parenting is, then birth benefits, because probably one well-paid father then doesn't go down to some 2,600 or what it is. So, anyway, that's one of the questions, and I think, as was said here, that mostly they reach for the use of those benefits, those parents, fathers who have a lower salary or who are unemployed regardless, and I think that fathers in good and stable families are with their wife and child regardless, and if they work and have a part of their free time. I would certainly agree with my colleague König who said that promoting equality must come from family certainly because everyone, every representation of women in public functions, public life duties, in the business world primarily conditioned her that she could achieve this gender equality within the family. to allow her enough time to do business outside the family to the same extent as provided for by both men, husbands or partners. So, so much for this parental leave. Of course we also welcome this solution that introduces this leave for adoptive parents, increases its duration, it's not much but is a message, so regardless of the age of the adopted child. I also use the opportunity to ask the minister because that is one painful question she is calling for a solution, which is a question of adoption. So here is the assistant minister of Ms. Kelava who certainly knows the situation very well, how it works and what its legislative framework is but also what it is in practice. What I can say, and we heard today and Mrs. Tyrelli, a colleague of Tyrell's who said that it was certainly not a good condition. The minister has promised a solution, and here I read an article: "Will it finally be easier to adopt a child in Croatia? And says the minister launched non-workers from the welfare centre." Minister, it's good to move everyone who works in public services and they're on the state budget and they're not working, it's good to get them started to work, but I think there's something more to be done, and that's first of all to regulate laws and law enforcement. In a situation where we have here, as we have heard, 586 seems to me to have registered adoptors who have a belief of similarity to the adoptor, when in 540 children in homes under the age of 7 and when adopted in 2012, it seems to me that my colleague Tyrelli said 84 adoptions only, then there is something not good, because it would certainly be better for children to have a home, that they are in a family than they are in an institution, and on the other hand there are many potential adoptors, or parents who would want to adopt a child. It is inadmissible, so it is finally and I once commended the established adoption register, but it also seems unacceptable to me that today children who are ready for adoption actually have no one in any single register, so nowhere they are in one place to know where these children are. What happens, in any situation where there are far more than one, I don't want that term to sound harsh to say demand, but there are far more potential adoptors who have met all the conditions for foster parents than children who are ready for adoption. These are areas that are then subject to squabbling, corruption, dishonesty, relationships, etc. In a situation where there is no legal way, there is no legal way to find out if there is a child who is ready to adopt or has no child. In such a situation where the competent service or the state body does not have a unique data, it does not have a good one but has it all over not even 119 centres of social care but there is a danger throughout the children's homes and I'm sure it is not safe but probably it is happening, there is a danger that this information is piling somewhere under the table in an illegal way. Someone has some way of getting to them, then they're ahead of them, etc. So there are no clear criteria. What needs to be done and this is a particularly sensitive area, we talked a lot here when we talked about medically assisted insemination, about how much parents' wish, the desire for men and women to have their child is the same, and in the case of adoption, it is a terrible desire for parents to come to the child, to start their family and with this adopted child, and therefore there is a way to say for that the most important measure and the most important thing is in the fight against all the dishonest actions and corruption is prevention. So this is something that must be a prevention to clearly establish both the adoption register and the registry of course will not be publicly available but it will be in the state body of children in one place, children who are ready for adoption, to clearly establish criteria and they should be nothing but the length of waiting when someone becomes a potential adoptor, to be the criterion of length of waiting. Of course, some others are involved in delicate matters. When adopting therefore the compatibility of the child and adoptor, etc. These are details that I will not enter, which are surely familiar to you but that there must be clearly established criteria somewhere for why the child has succeeded in adopting a couple and not perhaps one that has waited more in that order than one who has succeeded. Here may not be the subject of this whole law, but I think the subject is worth the attention and I appeal to the Ministry that here's what promised that this area would solve and pass the law to do so as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36769	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the debate with that. The final word of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36770	Well, first of all, I'm going to thank everyone who took part in this debate today and, of course, in the debate about the first reading and thank you, colleague Lovrin, for actually seeing that regardless of what I was listening to, I didn't actually listen to the individual MPs talking. This is also witnessed by this amendment to the law and the amendment of the Nanny Law where there were indeed good and constructive proposals that we then adopted until the second reading. So we listen very well to the MPs. I've been sitting in the Parliament for years and I've been mad at ministers who haven't listened to MPs, so here I am trying to change that one policy a little bit and listen to what you're saying and adopt everything that's good and constructive. What we have only and where we only have restrictions are unfortunately financial resources, and they can't be much, they are as much in the budget right now and without the start of the economy and the new charge in principle at this point we can only be happy to safeguard the current rights of citizens in the social care system. You're starting to get a little out of this law but I understand the interest of adoption. I have to say that we made that register, that we finally know how many adoptors we have, that through this app that should cover all welfare centers by the end of the year we'll have that way. So every day we update who checked in and where he checked in and it won't be necessary for people to check into the table and some centers. It'll be one enough, and you'll see in all places their interest in adopting a child. We therefore, after having talked to all the directors of the centre and with all the information that we had asked them to launch certain actions against children within certain deadlines, and in some ways the consequence of this conversation with them was, in fact, some new figures are also some new indicators. So at this point, at the right of four months, 147 children are being initiated for adoption proceedings, so at this point they are either in court or in the process of being initiated by the welfare center. 30 children are already now, so it has all the conditions for adoption. But what concerns us is 60 children who have all the conditions for adoption but unfortunately there are no adopters who are interested in them. It is often a matter of times or of children from a number of families where we try not to share a family. So people are very hard to take four, five kids, they're going to take two, possibly three, but more than that hard. We sometimes have a family with eight brothers and sisters, and it is really now a matter of our decision to give them a chance to go to a family in some separate groups or to keep them at home just to sort of keep them safe. It's one dilemma that I think everyone would have in front of us and it's really hard. However, there are also children with certain damages, with certain developmental difficulties, and for this it is very difficult to find potential adoptors. So here's 60 kids have conditions, and unfortunately for them, we don't have people who want to adopt them. Whether our adoption criteria can be the length of waiting on the list, that's the same question. So a centre like a multidisciplinary team that estimates a family would have to have some sort of assessment of the best foster parent. So at this point, we only have a child in focus, so it's in our best interests to get the child into the family as soon as possible and to find the better and better family for him. I hope that this will contribute a little bit and a change in the Family Law in which we predict a pre-trial, so now it happens often that people come, get the right to adopt, but they don't have any prior contact with that child, and then there are some situations where we're going to end adoption, and that's the worst that can happen to us, it's such a big trauma for a child that really no child should ever go through. But the situation is also such that parents and potential adoptors do not have any preparatory phase. So we will now try or rather install into the Family Law this one preparation phase in which parents will have a certain opportunity to see if they have in any way met with that child or not, so people say, but also that they may be aware of certain things that can be known from the family history of that child to prepare them for it to be told, not to get something that is then a great unknown to them and do not know how to deal with it. I think that the much bigger problem with adoption is not so much the law itself and what we've been saying for three months of care and all that, all of us may be able to and may change that it's a big problem of practice itself, the very decisions of the people in the centres when we go on taking parental care and in that part of the Family Law, we may try a little bit better to help people in the center so that they can make a decision easier, that they know when they meet the conditions that they can go into taking parental care because that's what often leaves us too long children in institutions or foster families because the centre is worth taking away parental care or not. So much for adoption, and maybe just a little bit more about the found-out family policy. So we wear the name of the family ministry in the ministry or I don't think the family is the foundation without which we can't. Everything comes from family and good and sometimes bad things if that family is dysfunctional and it doesn't work. The family policy that was up until a while ago has expired, we are working on a new family policy. You'll have a chance and you here in the Parliament will discuss it by the end of the year. However, we must all be aware that we cannot expect much from this family policy. In fact, the family policy that was in place last year has had good measures, some have not been implemented but, unfortunately, the birth rate has not increased but has fallen year by year. Obviously, the measures we had but the measures we can take in the future to support the family question of how much they can give their effect. Mostly because the question of children and the number of children is the question of choice and the question of how you can influence it. So you can create conditions you can also provide people with jobs and I don't know how to get to easier living space but even the height of the maternity benefits won't affect more children because it's something that can only make it easier for a child in a year and what you're going to do for the rest of the time. Therefore, I think we need to be reasonable, family policy will be. We will try to install as many measures as possible that can help families to comply primarily with their work and family obligations, but it is indeed a matter of choice and many richer countries than Croatia that invest much more in certain services and also have a fall in birthrights. So obviously the problem is somewhere else. And finally, just one more thing, you said that it should be legal, so it's a matter of policy whether it's legal for fathers to participate and participate in these first year of a child's life. Yeah, that's a political question, but I also think it's a much better way to raise kids not in stereotypes like we're still raising them, and that's that mother is the one carrying the whole worry and burden in the family. So I think that somewhere in kindergarten we should start raising them, and that these two roles, both father and mother, are equally important in the child's life, that both of them have to be equally concerned. You have one piece of information that shows how often here I have to tell a man's escape from trouble. So parents who get children with multiple injuries leave the largest number of husbands in the marriage community and leave their wife to take care of such a child by herself. So it's an indicator of a little of that insensitivity, but it's something I think it's still built on small legs. So we have to have some future generations if we can't change our generations already. We have to raise some future generations that here, at the end of the day, when we talked about nannies, only one representative mentioned that men can be babysitters. I can, of course I can. I can look after the kids, I can take care of the kids, but most of the time on this non-verbal face-to-face communication was how male is now going to be a nanny. So these are some of our stereotypes of some of our prejudices. We are still a conservative society, and it seems to me that it is very important, and these discussions also contribute to raising the level and awareness in people that the father can and should participate in the life of his child and at this earliest stage that he can change his diapers so that he can feed on the bottle, so that he can do much that the mother can and can therefore replace can indeed be an irreplaceable part of the child’s life. Here's a thank you once again for all your suggestions and for, at the end of the day, and for this perhaps a little broader debate in which we exchanged some information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36771	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later on this bill. We move on to the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 241. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the HDSSB Representatives' Club. Deputy Secretary Darko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36773	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the proposed amendment with the following clarification, we point out that the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth with a whole series of concrete and active measures in its work daily encourages and strengthens parenting, but in this firm definition of course we must take care of the financial opportunities available to us. With special satisfaction, I would also like to point out that the proposal for this Act on these amendments and additions to the Law on maternity and parental support not only to monitor this law with the highest quality European gains, but especially to this law, we have regulated the status of foster parents, and we have enabled our fathers to actively participate in the earliest parenting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36774	Who's going to explain on behalf of the club? Drazen Djurovic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36775	Thank you. So this amendment refers to the following areas that have not been read, it has been applied so that it may be time to finally support parenting with active measures and to increase birth benefits for the first six months. Indeed on 100% salary, not 100% salary from tax base, and on the other 6 months from 50 to 80%. Because if we do, I think it's really time to do it in this country, the population trends are clear, they're completely negative. So if these population trends are the basis by which we introduce such a liberal law of artificial fertilization as we introduce it, then I guess these population trends and the situation in society should be a reason and that we really financially support the young families that in the first year, in the first year after the birth of children really survive and have a fee that will allow those children to actually rise in that first year. Therefore, I ask the vote and ask everyone to vote for is this something that really helps young families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-11-0.u36776	Who's in favour of the HDZ Club amendment that the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that with 97 votes for, 6 abstentions and 2 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Please announce, so the previous law with 97 for, 6 against and 2 abstentions. Thank you. And we're going to have a united discussion on two laws, and that's point 62 and 63 of our agenda, that is, 62. Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on areas of counties, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, second reading, PZ No. 275, the legislator is the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government and 63. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, second reading, PZ No. 276, Law Proposer Dragica Zgrebec You received the proposal by mail. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of laws, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. They do not wish to further explain the proposal to the applicant. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. This will end today's session. Tomorrow we will begin at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books, Second Reading, PZ No 239. Thank you very much.
