ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45767	Dear Mr. President, the HDZ Club had major objections Friday in the way of holding the session. We also addressed you personally in writing, and given the way the session was held on Friday, I request a 15-minute break for the club's session to show us about Friday's events.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45768	I can only announce and open the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education, second reading, P.Z. No. 192; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. In the case of the adoption of the Law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law, which are the provisions of Articles 194 to 202 shall apply. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the Proposal for a Law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received reports from these bodies at the session. Before we give a word to the proposing representative, I will determine the pause requested by the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives and in the 9th and 40ths, the SDP Club, well, at 9.45, and the Labourists, O.K., all right. Let's do it in that order. Stop by 9.45. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] So before continuing the session of the Croatian Parliament on the agenda, clubs asked for a break. The first club is HDZ. Here's a esteemed colleague, Davorin Mlakar, on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45770	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll try to narrow this down in as little time as possible. On Friday, we witnessed the way in which the session was held, the plenary session, that so far, in the practice of this Assembly, it has not happened, and since the chairman led the session, we have brought forth certain objections that have not, of course, been accepted. I will remind myself once again of the provisions and the amended Rules of Procedure that we have, I would say only by the will of the majority in Parliament, which is the fact that before each decision is based on Article 251. The rules of procedure need to establish a quorum for decision-making, so that a majority of MPs should be able to make a decision at all. The chair of Friday's session failed to do so. For the purpose of evidence, we can attach a phonogram from Friday's session, so you too will make sure that the chairman has not established a quorum at all so that Parliament can make a sound decision. But if we take as a possibility and the fact that the Rules of Procedure determine the quorum as a rule and that this rule is re-abused, then certainly the chairman must determine the quorum, or the number of representatives required to make decisions if any of the MPs so requests. And we did, too, but the chairman refused to accept it and did not determine the quorum for decision-making. Since this behaviour goes beyond all the limits of a democratically decent manner of conduct in Parliament and that the injury is much broader than the trivial violation of the Rules of Procedure, we have asked the President of the Parliament to check the session of Friday, to determine whether there was a quorum for decision-making and if you find that this is not how you question and the validity of all decisions made on Friday, which means the updated agenda on which we should continue to work. That is why we are asking for this session to be suspended until we determine that Friday's session was held and whether there were procedural errors that question the legality of the decisions made on Friday. And also, on Friday, the arrogance of holding a session was again demonstrated in a way that no objection by opposition deputies had been accepted, the more we received instructions to stick to the Rules of Procedure and to those applying the Rules of Procedure, but only as it suits them. According to the Rules of Procedure, to which we were referred, it was by written means that we should request an individual vote and the identification of the number of MPs, which is not foreseen by our Rules of Procedure. And I will also refer the chairman to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which says that the chairman, not the Parliament's professional services, determines most of the representatives present, and cannot transfer their obligation to service or to technical assistance in the conduct of the session. For all this or for the purpose of the session being led against the Rules of Procedure only because it would not be possible to meet at times the legitimate demands of the opposition, and if this is not about the intention, then even worse, it is about the ignorance of those who are holding the session and calling for a Rules of Procedure that they do not adhere to. In either case, Friday's decision-making cannot be valid until it is established whether a majority of decisions were needed at all. And that's why the updated agenda can't even be credible if we don't know if there were any assumptions for his addition, and we claim and attach a phonogram to Friday's session that it wasn't like that. We asked the President of the Parliament to also record the session and determine whether we or possibly the chairman was right. Thank you very much. Until then, we don't think this session can continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45771	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club in the Croatian Parliament, respected representative Nenad Stazic, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45772	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Rules of Procedure shall be held in the run-up of the meetings of the Parliament and the President of the Parliament and the Vice-Presidents of the Assembly. In doing so, the secretary of the session helps them if they miss something if they forget to do something, the secretary of the session warns them. I don't know what it says in the phonogram, I remember I asked for a quorum and the quorum was established. The president or chair of the session shall determine the quorum. Never did the president or chairman count MPs in the Assembly, but he addressed the Parliament's Professional Service and received a report from them on whether we have quorum or do not have quorum, how many MPs are present in the assembly. There must be a premonition of the truthfulness of this information, because if it did not exist then any decision could later be refuted and claimed that the counters miscounted and that no law was passed by the number of votes required. That would create one complete legal uncertainty. The quorum, it is clear whether or not the quorum exists and when the vote is made. Because if you add up the votes that are in favour, the votes that are against and the abstentions then you will see whether or not you have a quorum. What happened on Friday? The opposition went out, left parliament's session, tried to bring down the quorum at the time we needed to verify the mandates of two SDP deputies. Never in democratic practice since this House happened until Friday. The quorum never collapsed when mandates were to be verified. The MPs to whom we have verified the mandates have been elected in the elections. It is their right to sit in this House and decide... Croatian people and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And no party nor HDZ will be able to challenge it by destroying the quorum or by trying to tear down the quorum. The fact that you didn't want to verify your mandates tells you that you really despise the will of the citizens, that you told those citizens no matter what we care who you choose. We are here HDZ and we will decide whether their mandates will be verified or not. But look, gentlemen of the HDZ, I don't know if you want to. A mandate should also be verified by your one representative. Do you want to put it into practice? That the SDP should come out when we verify your mandate and never make a quorum, that we should always leave that at the last point of voting and not verify your colleague's mandate. We will not act this way because we are not HDZ, we will not act this way because we are Democrats, we will not act that way because we recognise the will of Croatian citizens expressed in the elections. What happened on Friday was a civil shame. It's an outcast of democracy. Your collapse of the quorum is something that will remain recorded in the annals of the history of the Croatian Parliament as one of the most embarrassing days. Take care of it not in front of me, not in front of the SDP, in front of the citizens of Croatia who watch how you behave. Igor Dragovan then told you on Friday what kind of party must be responsible for what she did before the courts, you must be responsible for what you did. And what did you try on Friday? This series of thefts continues and steals two SDP mandates making it impossible for MPs to be confirmed here and to do their job for which they were elected. It's a shame. It is a shame that neither the Parliament Presidency nor the plenary session should be discussed. This will certainly be discussed by the citizens when they are in a series of your shames and still have to think about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45773	Thank you, too. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45774	Mr. President, Mr. Stazic, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, did not talk about the topic we were looking for a break, and neither did he. And on the other hand he was talking, I'd say In that he did not speak in a manner appropriate to Parliament's speech. [[Intruder President: What is the injury and which article is on.]] He spoke again about topics that are not on the agenda, he said again I will not speak the language of hate but judge for yourself how. But I believe that's why you should have warned him. And the fact that he doesn't know how to run a session, 209 of the former [[The Incursion President: But, Your Honor, please state what the Rules of Procedure is.]] Which is today I still don't know [[Intruder President: What is it made up of?]] It is said that he gave an inappropriate speech in the Assembly by a representative who spoke on behalf of the SDP. [[Intruder President: What is it made up of?]] By not studying the Rules of Procedure and not knowing how to conduct the session and not knowing about his obligations as chairman, he cannot cover by now attacking another party for the motives for which he has asked for the count of votes and the determination of the quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45775	Thank you very much. It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, it's about your esteemed colleague. It's a completely declassified thesis, completely deplaced thesis. And now I call on the respected representative Branko Vuksic on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45776	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I think the vice president of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Stazic has turned away, tried to draw attention from irrelevant matters. Croatian Labourists also left the hall on Friday and it was not our intention to sabotage, not to confirm the will of the citizens, as Mr Stazic said. We got out of the assembly for other things, now I'm gonna say what things they are. First I ask a question here in the House isn't it a shame in the 21st century that we have a hand vote? And why do we have a manual vote? Due to the possibility of manipulation, Friday confirmed. You want to manipulate even with the number of votes. So secure the quorum, you have such a fat majority, secure yourself at least a quorum, make the MPs come to you on Friday when they raise their hands, they raise their hands anyway. I saw a message "Come Friday at 12 and don't ask why and don't ask a question." First of all, the parliamentary representatives went out, part of the parliamentary deputies out, I speak on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club for disrespecting the parliament, for disrespecting the opposition. That's why you despise the will of the citizens, because one not very small group of parliamentary deputies has no right to amendments or laws. You have continued to adopt the Rules of Procedure in which the law can be proposed and never included in the agenda, never discussed. We often need to warn you that the quorum needs to be determined. This that this system in the 21st century is impossible to fix, that's expensive, that's a notorious lie. It does not wish to fix this electronic voting system because it could be manipulated. The breach of the Rules of Procedure just happened on Friday. A single vote, Mr. Stazic said it should be sought in writing, but it is necessary to see where it is written in the Rules of Procedure. We, Croatian Labourists, Mr. Lesar asked for a single vote immediately a few months ago was the President of the Parliament's chair of the session and the vote was held. Then you shouldn't have, you see the devil, in writing. Since the quorum is unconfirmed and since it is not known until today whether or not the number of hands has really been enough I agree with my HDZ colleagues that the question is whether all these decisions that have been made are valid. That is why you have violated the will of the citizens, you have shown one contempt for the citizens because you are your colleagues who should have voted who are absolutely certain that the opposition will confirm brought to an awkward position because they feel that they are not chosen by the majority of the votes required. With certainty you cannot claim that these decisions are valid, you do not want to admit a mistake and once again I ask the question and the chairman of the Croatian Parliament tell you why the Croatian Parliament does not have the money to fix it or the question of whether it is a corrupt vote by electronic means? I'm just saying one more time so you can manipulate yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45777	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Of course this is a political game in the Croatian Parliament and that it is allowed, it is not disputed. Secondly, establishing illegality isn't on the President of the Parliament you all know that. The third thing I'm saying is, I've seen that before. The new circumstance is that if there are no objections to the agenda and points are by emergency procedure then no vote on points is cast. Yes, and you've heard about the quorum before the vote that it was established. ... The possibility remains that you all look at the same thing with different eyes, and now you do, of course you always do. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, we're not going to find out about it now. It's been established that the quorum exists. Voting can also be found to have been held. Unfortunately, that's it. So we're going to work. ... Here, what is it now? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45778	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, since there are misunderstandings, since the vice president himself said he didn't see the phonogram
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45779	But we're done with that now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45780	I would only pray for more, I have one proposal that could help all of us to overcome this situation so that club representatives find themselves based on a phonogram to determine whether or not the quorum was established. Because if the quorum was not established then it is definitely a violation of the Rules of Procedure and the mandates of our colleagues for whom in such a rude, manipulative way Stazic calls us
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45781	We've heard it all before, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45782	That's very ugly. So HDZ and other parties didn't want to destroy their legitimacy
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45783	Comrade Jandrokovic, we've heard all this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45784	So I suggest
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45785	You're out of the Rules of Procedure now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45786	Okay, so here's a sentence. I suggest that club representatives be found and established on the basis of a phonogram whether a quorum is established at the start of the vote or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45787	No, no, we're not gonna argue like that. If you think it is, you're staying at your claim, of course you'll realize it through other species.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45788	And you can explain to us how we're going to know, since we suggested in the letter we sent you to establish it in television.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45789	That's what we'll talk about later, how we'll know about the letter.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45790	Will we be able to be present when that number is determined on the basis of television footage?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45791	That's what someone else will do if you raise the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45792	And who wants someone? We launched and sent a letter to the President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45793	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45794	So you don't want to resolve that question?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45795	About the letter I'll answer you, it's no place for me to answer to you right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45796	But you don't want to resolve that issue!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45797	Please, we're done arguing. Thank you very much. We're going back to work. We've released what point is on the agenda. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Science, Education and Sports Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45798	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to the distinguished MPs and MPs. On one radio station, there was one radio show, "What little dares to say what adults don't do", so recently there was a theme of Parliament, the European Parliament, and it was very interesting to listen to children in kindergartens who think about politics and politicians, and I hope that today's changes and additions of the law will help to remain so creative, open-minded because it will mean it will be innovative throughout their educational process. This is the second reading of the Law on Preschool Education and Education, you know that earlier preschool education in the Republic of 1997 has been arranged as part of a system of education and education. It is the first level of the education system of the Republic of Croatia and each child has the right to participate in the early preschool education programme from 6 months to the start of primary school, and society should provide him with conditions and opportunities for education from the earliest age. Early education and education is considered an education that precedes primary education, refers to education in the broadest sense and exceeds what some call preschool education because it is a legitimate type of education that does not only aim to prepare children for school but also to live in the same way as all other parts of the educational system that contribute to this process. Early education and higher quality education create a basis for lifelong learning and all experts say that children are actively learning from birth, where the first year is extremely important. The amendments and additions that were preceded by you two readings, a public debate, and in which we also accepted the proposals from the debate in this House in the first reading that contributed to the quality of the text had basic goals that we could divide into 8 groups. The first is to determine the public powers of kindergarten children, 2nd clearer guidelines to units of local and regional (regional) self-government in their obligation to bring a network of kindergartens into their fields, to introduce regulations on national curricula for pre-school education and kindergarten, to prescribe a pre-school programme for all children in the year prior to their elementary school, which was particularly interesting in the first reading debate where no one challenged the need and importance of early pre-school education and education, but there were a lot of discussions on the very way of funding and some of these remarks we also appreciated in this text which was before you in Article 23a. Expand the possibility of granting consent to other legal persons and natural persons, craftsmen for the implementation of shorter programs, playground for children under the same conditions as for kindergartens that are provided with spatial, material and personnel conditionality. To determine qualifications and levels of education of educated and other children's kindergarten workers according to the system of education in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the so-called “Student Education” by means of a Bologna process, determine which persons and under which conditions cannot establish a working relationship in kindergarten and ultimately determine the infringement provisions for kindergarten and responsible person due to failure to work. In relation to the first text after the debate was held in this assembly, 4 key proposals were respected. Firstly, a proposal for a parliamentary debate was adopted and the Legislative Committee, which complemented Article 6 of the proposal for a new text, where the adoption of a plan for a children's kindergarten network in Zagreb was more clearly defined, because this was not clearly prescribed, so by prescribing the replacement of the words of the city of Zagreb, it is clear that the representative body of the city of Zagreb, or the assembly, brings the plan of a network of kindergartens in its area, as well as the representative bodies of the units of local self-government bring the plan of a network of kindergartens in their fields. Secondly, a proposal from the parliamentary debate and the Legislative Committee has also been accepted as regards a clearer indication that persons cannot establish a working relationship in a kindergarten, so the person who is sentenced to prison regardless of whether a conditional or unconditional sentence is imposed for any of the offences committed against the life and bodies of the Republic of Croatia against justice, against public order, against property, against official duty, against humanity, human dignity, against personal freedom, sexual freedom, against sexual abuse and exploitation of a child, against marriage, family and children, against human health, against general security, against counterfeiting and any other criminal act committed against the harm of a child or the use of a child or a minor unless rehabilitation has taken place under a specific law. The Ministry of Entrepreneurship's proposal was also accepted to implement shorter education programmes with children of the early and preschool age, including libraries, health, social, cultural and sports institutions, as well as other legal persons and natural persons. Playrooms. The biggest debate was about creating the assumption that all children in Croatia must spend some time preparing for school before going to school. Proposals on the need for more detailed arrangements on how to organise, finance for preschool programmes have been adopted. This text is complemented by provisions that prescribe that the preschool programme is mandatory for all children in the year before leaving for primary school. The preschool programme for kindergarten children is integrated into a regular preschool preschool education programme, and preschool bonds do not enroll in preschool programmes in kindergartens or elementary school nearest their place of residence that conduct preschool programs for children who do not attend kindergartens. In the event that there is no kindergarten or elementary school in a particular area that implements the programme of preschool units of local or regional (regional) self-government, it is necessary to ensure that preschool programmes are implemented for children who do not attend kindergartens in such a way as to ensure the transport of the child to the nearest kindergarten or primary school that performs the preschool programme unless it is more than 20km away from the place of the child's residence. If the nearest kindergarten or elementary school that performs the preschool programme is more than 20km away from the place of residence of the child units of local or regional (regional) self-government is required to establish a kindergarten or its branch or organise a preschool programme in an area within 20km from the place of residence of the child. We also accepted proposals from the debate to postpone the entry into force of those provisions by 31 August 2014 in order to provide funding for this programme in both the state budget and the budget of the units of local or regional (regional) self-government. Therefore, it is signed that the preschool programme is free of charge for preschool students. The funds for the implementation of the preschool programme shall be financed from the funds of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government and part of the funds for public needs programmes in the field of pre-school education and thus the pre-school programmes shall be provided in the national budget. The way in which funding from the state budget and co-financing criteria are available is prescribed by the Minister responsible for education, and therefore we point out that the assessment of the necessary funds for law enforcement needs to provide additional resources in the state budget planned for 2014 and 2015. I thank all those who have contributed to the quality of this text with their proposals between the two readings and I invite you to support these legislative changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45799	Thank you very much, Minister. Two replicas have been reported for your presentation. The first replica and respected representative Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45800	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, first of all, we are pleased that you have admitted that you have entered unprepared for the first reading of this law, so we have waited 8 months to obtain the conditions that this law is valid only since the next school year 2014-2015. That's okay. But now I'm asking again the question I asked the last time. Can you answer me whether or not you will be able to enroll in the 1st grade of children who are not finished or unable to complete their preschool program for lack of conditions or inability to provide them with that kind of insight. Whether the ministry lets them or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45801	New replica and respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45802	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I agree with you in that section that you said you should start working with the kids as soon as possible. But what you specifically emphasized and stated as a very good thing is Article 23a, where again definitely the units of local self-government make a commitment even if they have to start kindergarten if there are no other conditions. And I haven't been able to see these ratios anywhere... maybe you could explain to me a little bit... exactly how much money this program is going to have. Because if this is just a reason to say that we're going to have a 9-year basic education in a way that units of local self-government are practically additionally funding preschool minimum or those small school so far, then we can't be very happy about it. I would therefore like to answer the question of how many countries will finance this programme, how much of it will go from decentralised funds, whether some of these funds will be decentralised according to local self-government as decentralised for primary schools, so for high schools. Or it's really going to turn out that it's been passed by the Mandatory School Act on the 9th year that it's preschool education that's being conducted now as a small school and that local self-government is ultimately going to have to pay for it. And to generate expenses, obligations that so far do not have the resources for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45803	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to submit reports? I find that not. I'm opening a debate. The debate starts with the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is next to the Club of HSU and the esteemed representative Ljiljana Cvetovic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45804	The Honorable President of the Assembly, a respected minister with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. The government programme of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2011 to 2015 has been determined that all children in the 6th year of life will be required to start a preschool programme. The preschool obligation itself is an affirmation of early and preschool education, however, there are still a number of ambiguities that could seriously jeopardise the quality of preschool realization as well as the equality of working conditions on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, the proposal to amend and supplement the Preschool and Education Act does not provide for the provision of additional funding from the state budget and only 20 kuna per child is now allocated. As a result, funds for preschool are also required to provide units of local self-government. The commitment programme should be financed from the state budget. And since children's kindergartens are in the jurisdiction of local self-government units and they finance them with the participation of parents, it is necessary to establish the exact amount with which the state will finance this mandatory programme. Some towns and municipalities in their kindergartens spend a free preschool program for parents and only for those children who have not hit kindergarten so far. While in other units local self-government preschool charges parents, which points to different financial opportunities of founders. If the intention to introduce preschool is to be implemented in an increased number of hours, it is necessary to increase the number of professional staff in kindergartens to implement this programme. As well as provide the necessary space because of the fact that the number of children attending kindergarten will increase. One of the basic preconditions for the uniform implementation of this programme at country level is certainly the adoption of preschool curricula. In Croatia there are many isolated places where children do not even have the possibility of attending kindergarten without traveling, which means that units of local self-government would be obliged to provide significant financial resources for the transport of such children, as well as questions about the care of such young children who can certainly not go on their own journey. It is assumed that if the kindergartens at a large distance of the local self-government unit are obliged to provide for preschool although they do not have kindergartens that require either large material resources or the question of the conditions and quality of implementation of the programme in non-purpose space is raised. And we believe that this issue will be particularly difficult to address in mainly hilly areas or in islands. In addition, it is worth mentioning that in numerous local self-government units, existing kindergartens do not meet the needs of parents and that many children remain unrecorded and with the child enrolment championships in the year before school, so the question of financing new kindergartens again arises so that all children can attend compulsory preschool programmes. Namely, many kindergarten facilities have been built unintendedly or according to old pedagogical standards, and the application of the state pedagogical standard further reduces the possibility of covering preschool children. Furthermore, the Final Proposal of the Law distinguishes two options for involving children in the preschool programme. And for children who attend a regular 10-hour preschool education program that would integrate preschool itself. For children who don't attend kindergarten and who would aimly enter the preschool program in kindergarten nearest the place of residence. Since the obligation excludes payment, it is not clear how parents of children attending the whole day’s programme will participate in the price of the part that does not apply to the preschool programme. For these reasons, we hold that one option is to respect the principle of equality for all children and to ensure quality conditions for the implementation of the pre-school funding programme, as a principle of decentralisation of primary education, while establishing additional sources of funding. In order to determine the preschool price in terms of the means to be provided, an analysis of the existing conditions should certainly be carried out. Therefore, the preschool obligation promotes equal access to education and education, which means that at the time of the preschool commitment, it must be made possible for its children of Croatia under equal conditions. We are aware of the inequalities and possibilities of cities and municipalities that this principle will not be implemented unless this funding is supported from the state budget as well. It is certainly except for the disputed and application of the National Pedagogical Standard of Preschool Education and Education. Article 22 is replaced by the following: The national pedagogical standard, which determines the number of children in the educational group in the regular programme, will not be able to enroll new children because there will be no vacant places. In addition to the fact that new standards define a small number of children in individual groups, new normatives also determine a larger square of space per child to be provided by kindergarten. Most of the facilities in Rijeka, and I believe in other municipalities and cities where preschool education is conducted, were built according to the old standards of 1983, or was carried out in different buildings that were not intended. For this reason, respect for the square of the country's pedagogical standard means an additional reduction in the number of children within individual groups, meaning that the number of children in individual groups will be less than that defined in Article 22. State pedagogical standard. Finally, in view of Article 21 of the Standard for the construction and equipment of primary schools, it is not clear how it can be expected to build kindergartens at local levels in these difficult recession times in a much shorter time. I note that in an interview with Voice Istria, the minister said the ministry would have heard about units of local self-government that had not arrived, but I don't think that's enough. Such a decision should be made officially because it is impossible to build as quickly as necessary. In fact, we don't have any more grandmas or nonis or nonics guarding their grandchildren because they work. Furthermore, an increase in employment is expected, which will further increase the needs for preschool institutions, while building only one building of five groups costs nearly 40 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45805	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Replications have been reported to your presentation. The first replica and respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45806	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Cvetovic, you said in the introduction that the government programme set out the obligation to conduct preschool education. Government's program promised a lot of other things, so you can see what it ended up with. But we also heard in the opening statement of the minister that both childcare obligations and obligations of units of local self-government, and in large part I agree with your debate. As far as children's kindergartens are concerned, they know very well. I personally bear witness to their and their expertise and respect for all these therefore and standards and all these obligations that they must implement, and indeed if they are not carried out immediately, inspection and difficulties are certainly great for them. But I can't understand that moment if he's not able to start a kindergarten, he can set up a unit of local self-government kindergarten. Well, it's not just on paper that he's going to start a kindergarten. One kindergarten costs 2 million kuna, if we make it meet the standards and that children can safely stay in it and get quality and instruction and anything. And many commissioners with these kindergartens put so much effort into making, allowing their environment and, of course, to violate what you mentioned in the last principle of equality. Well, many of them will of course not be able to come by transport, so who's interested in a small number of children translated from these carriers today. Who's interested because it's not even financial to him, and of course it's threatened to, who's going to follow that child. So, I believe that mainly children in rural areas in local self-government units who are weaker material options are not in an equal position and that in any case should if someone prescribes that they must provide the means to do so.... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45807	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Ljiljana Cvetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45808	My dear colleague, I fully agree with your discussion and my entire debate has been going along with the fact that this state program is ideal. He's really very good and every unit of local self-government would love to be able to carry him out. But I'm saying that as many kindergartens as there are in the city of Rijeka, none of them are responding to this program, and that's why I asked a question, and that's why I want to know how local self-government units are going to finance this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45809	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45810	Thank you. My colleague Cvetovic, I fully sign your debate. You've seen very well the problems that have not been solved in the second reading of this law. We're reintroducing something because it's in the government program, so we have to introduce it in the first two years. That's what happened to our health care, that's what happened to our textbooks, that's all the decisions that go down in the Constitutional Court, and that's what's going down because of the rush. You have well noticed that the introduction of this programme is not well prepared and will do the most damage and will be paid most by colleagues and colleagues of our cities, municipalities, and now the County is predicted and we have introduced mandatory preschool education. I really don't mind. Yesterday I read in the press that he's a professor. The fool who is at the head of this group who brings the education strategy, and I sincerely hope that she will be prepared for it, I welcome it, said that we will have to have nine years of education and that the children will go to school in the sixth year of their life. So this is really preparation. Then why the haste, the lack of funding, and you well said one great city of Rijeka will not be able to provide funds for the implementation of this programme. Then I ask you how it will do one small island place, how it will do the municipality of Dvor, the town of Glin when between the municipality of Dvor and the town of Glina there are villages where you have two or three children to drive, and imagine it's hard to get even to have children driving and to a primary school that is mandatory because carriers are not worth going for two, three children. And finally, a fundamental and good question for a colleague of yours because I know you're a student of the school you've asked. Who's gonna follow a six-year-old on that bus? We're already having trouble transporting lower grade primary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45811	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica? Oh, no? We are going to the next line, the respected representative of Domagoj Hajduković and the third replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45812	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleagues here on the line have encouraged me to say the same chances for all and equal conditions in all of the preschool classes, i.e. preschool education. But we in reality and we have to tell that truth because we don't have the same conditions in elementary schools. So I've had the good fortune of working in many elementary schools, and I'm talking first of all about regional schools, so not parent schools where classes are performed in very debateable conditions. So these are all objects that are not built for purpose, these are all objects that are adapted or that are conveniently used for teaching for a number of reasons. It's one of those and a small number of children, but I don't see if these facilities can be used to perform regular classes so that they can't be conveniently served in preschool education. The other thing is that both colleagues and colleagues mentioned rural areas, islands. However, the problem of the depopulation is, in my opinion, one serious problem that would deserve to have a special parliamentary debate about it, but this law does not solve it. In fact, a large percentage of children are already involved in the preschool system, or preschool education. So, we're only talking about a few percentages of kids that aren't. And in the end, since the age of six, children have now been able to go to elementary school. So, I don't see any problems if they could go to school that they couldn't go to preschool. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45813	Thank you, too. A reply to the replica by the respected representative Ljiljana Cvetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45814	I think I agree with you that there will never be the same conditions in the Republic of Croatia for all children, it's normal for me somehow. Is it normal I don't know, but it is. But if we bring in some state standard and we have to accept it in advance, and we know it won't be enforceable. So I'd very much like to come in the ninth month to pick up my granddaughter in kindergarten and see that she has up to 20 children, that every child has 3 squares, so she's in a 60 squares room, that if she goes to the yard, there's 15 squares per child in the playground. So at least 300 squares for a group of 20 kids. And I know that she's been going to kindergarten for three years, that she's always in the same room that has a maximum of 30 square meters, and that this year she's going to be too. And so I wonder why you bring something so fast, if we know there can't be conditions. We opened a kindergarten in Rijeka a year ago. I guarantee that this new kindergarten doesn't have any conditions either. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45815	Thank you, too, Your Honor. It is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's turn in the Croatian Parliament and a respected representative of Dunja Špoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45816	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished ministers with an assistant, respected fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs. The right to education as well as the right to rest and play, as well as access to a wide range of cultural, artistic and other recreational activities, are the development rights set out in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In addition, the Convention states that children’s education should be a maximum development of the personality, talent and ability of each child. The importance of ensuring quality education for children is also highlighted in the Millennium Development Goals of the United Nations. The value of education, especially early childhood education for the well-being and prosperity of persons, is well established by research and documentation in literature. The second national development goal is to guarantee education for all. The main objective of this change is to improve the quality of the education system at all levels. Children are entitled, as stated in the General Declaration on Human Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child to Education, and early and preschool education must be considered part of the course of law. Early childhood education is of great importance for all children and must be available to all. This provides a good basis for learning and helps to develop skills, skills, personal competences, trusts and feelings of social responsibility. Therefore, every child including children from socially depressed environments and other vulnerable groups should have access to early education and good quality education. The objectives of the EU Member States were to include at least 90% of children between 3 years of age and at least 33% of children under 3 years of age in pre-school education. However, quality is not the same in all countries and this depends on the inequality of the level of staff expertise, the distinction of the system between education and care and the like. This final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Preschool Programme for Children will become mandatory in 2014. Employment conditions in kindergartens will be sharpened so that no one who has sinned in any way about the law will be able to work with children. The following analysis of this proposal following the first reading should also highlight the preschool programme for children in the year before school and so far has been mandatory, i.e. mandatory for programme holders but not for participants. Of the 41,000 children 27 220 attend kindergarten and 13 192 preschool programs organized in kindergartens or schools. All 488 children are enrolled in the first class without compulsory preschool education in both of those forms. 9-year compulsory education is applied in most European countries. Of the 556 units of local self-government 65 or 11.7% don't give away money for preschool education. Now I don't know if I'd say 65. Most in Brodo-Posaviska, 10 of them, in Vukovar-Srijemska, 9 of them and Split-Dalmatia 7. Whether they have singled out money for preschool education until now or not since 2014 they will have to provide for preschool, they will have to ensure child transport to the nearest kindergarten or preschool, if the child lives within 20 km of the facility. If the distance is greater they are obliged to establish a kindergarten branch or organize a preschool within 20 km. In a year, the minister will adopt a rulebook detailing preschool conduct. Following the provision of a new Penal Code, no one who has sinned in any way can work with children. In kindergarten, it cannot be employed or be an external associate of persons who are legally convicted for acts against life and body, state, judiciary, public order, property, official duties, humanity and human dignity, personal or sexual freedom, sexual abuse, child exploitation, marriage, family and children. Against human health, general safety, counterfeiting, for any other crime committed against the harm of a child or a minor. It is good for a child to spend part - time in the company of other children and educators. It imposes a modern way of life. The children remain emotionally related to the mother and other family members and at the same time accept new individuals, children and educators. They play in kindergartens, they hang out in kindergartens, they learn and they have fun. Children are rapidly developing in their early preschool years, so the task is to do everything we can to help our children have the best start of their lives. At EU level, the aim is to provide children with a multidimensional framework for quality, inclusion, investment policy, participation and professionalisation. Europe today is more diverse than ever. More diverse by the wealth of tradition, experience, procedures and aspirations. On the other hand, diversity is seen in a sharp inequality between and within its countries and regions. Early childhood is a critical period in human life. It is often known that experiences with young children, starting with the first day of life, form the basis for lifelong learning and education and development. Their interactions with parents in families and with experts in institutions and with other children have irreplaceable value. Little children are complete beings, future students, and future adults. Their responsible entry into society is being prepared and formed through education. Although children are particularly vulnerable and often influenced by social injustice and inequality, they are also fellow citizens who have their rights that we must respect. In one word and above all early childhood, so is the preschool period of opportunity. Let's not miss it. The SDP club accepts the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45817	Thank you very much. We've reported several replicas. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45818	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Spoljar with everything you have said about the needs of our children's early education, about the quality of education I fully agree with and I advocate it. However, each responsible state must provide for this particular goal that you have pointed out. Because this law will not provide for the state. This ministry and this government are not going to provide that. She transferred it to those you said there were as many as 65 that don't even provide funds for preschool education. Have you wondered why? Why doesn't a small municipality provide that? I don't believe he wants to because we all want to take care of our children equally, and everyone's first and primary goal is to care about the welfare of children, be assured of that. but probably because of your financial opportunities and the municipalities you've been talking about as numbers I can't. I'm some of my Sisak-Moslavina County who has a large part of more than 52% of the undeveloped Banovina area, which has barely restored children's kindergartens that were destroyed in the Homeland War, I've been talking about a problem that's about to happen. And you know what I think? It seems to me that we're all in favour of decentralisation here, but we're only doing this decentralisation through obligations, but we're centralizing and keeping the money to ourselves. Why don't you propose to amend the Law on the financing of local self-government units so that it can be obtained from citizens' income do not increase in [[Thank you very much.]] the contribution of units of local self-government and thereby obtain funds. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, esteemed MPs.]] I'm sorry. I wanted to finish my sentence. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45819	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45820	Dear colleagues, so I will repeat it again, it is 11% of local self-government in Croatia that do not single out for preschool education and are legally mandatory. So all that big percentage up to 100% stands out. Is this because they have made up their mind and what they know and are sure that preschool education is their priority or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45821	Thank you very much. And a new replica and respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45822	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Spoljar, you said this part of preschool education would become mandatory before leaving for primary school. I don't know if I see that you're working with a lot of data, I don't know if you know that back two years somewhere around 10% of the amount of funds for decentralised functions for material costs, that about 30% of the amount for capital investments, capital investments in primary schools, I don't know if you're counting on people working here that these people are going to be paid that someone's going to have to secure salaries for compulsory schooling and even for high school is providing salaries for the state. So I've already asked the minister that question, but he's silent. Maybe you know from the same club from the same mile, so you might answer me. Will the employees who work be paid by the state? Will the areas that will be arranged be regulated on the burden of capital investment of investment maintenance from decentralised assets? Will the transport of these children also be paid from decentralised funds coming towards local self-government or will local self-government have to do so? This is how it turns out to me that we're making a commitment, but we're making a commitment to the local self-government again. I'm responsible for saying I'm coming from a town that's not waiting for any preschool kids, so we've got everything taken care of. We also have a small school, we have a playground but we live in an environment where there are four surrounding municipalities that have no chance of doing it because they have 30 small villages, they won't be able to handle it. If this law is based on funding from decentralised funds, then he's ok, if it's not good then it's not fair and it's still a burden on local self-government, they're making commitments without anyone ever stimulating it before without anyone talking to her seriously about it at all. If you have any answers to those questions, I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45823	Thank you. The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45824	I'll do it again as in the debate, and I'll do it again, and I'll do it again, and I'll do it again, and I'll do it again, and I'll do it again, So the school year that was over was about 488 kids. Is Croatia 488 children a problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45825	New replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45826	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Špoljar, in the introduction, I was really careful to follow that guidance and the conventions on the rights of the child and the rights of such and such species, and in every part of it I agree, of course and with that fundamental goal to improve the quality and education of children and stay in those institutions undisputed, but I ask how, in what way, because you said in the further part, the local unit of local self-government is obliged to establish a kindergarten, it is obliged to ensure transportation to an institution, etc., but you did not mention in any word the strongest link that should be in that system, which is the state. With what part will it participate in helping the team because many units of local self-government are not really able. I now give you this moment from my county at least 10 to indicate where they want to make kindergarten but of course you should provide support at a higher level. And testifying over the past years how many of our units of local self-government have withdrawn funds from the Ministry of Regional Development that can be measured on a drop. And in that part, what you say is the equality of all falls into the water. Not everyone is because indeed many are in social agreement with you that children of social difficulties are very difficult to endure, and in our rural areas they are really in a difficult state because of no unremembered bad relationship with the village and agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45827	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45828	So kindergarten construction was proposed by the promoter to build new kindergartens and he gave the construction of new kindergartens an alternative, which is an organisation of preschools. So these kids, those 30 you're talking about, they're going to go somewhere in the first grade anyway, and they're going to have an organized transport and they're going to go first class somewhere. In this direction, the Proposer of the Law therefore sees an alternative to solving the problem. It may not be equal to the conditions of education for everyone but it will be the first step so let it be a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45829	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45830	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You said in your presentation that of the 556 municipalities there were 7 municipalities in the Split-Dalmatia County that did not provide funds for pre-school education. I don't think that number is correct. And if true, it probably refers to those municipalities where, unfortunately, there are no children and where there is no need to provide such resources. I therefore appeal to you, too, to this Government, to the Resort Ministry, in fact, that they should take care of this, about the strategy of demographic renewal of the Republic of Croatia, which is very important. Because then neither this Law will be necessary, for it will not be possible to apply to much of the municipalities and cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45831	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Dunja Špoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45832	Thanks, buddy. Niame, your replica is exactly on the path that we're going to have to deal with soon, and these are local self-governments without children or with fewer children. So every investment in child education and education and every effort to increase the standard of child education is really welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45833	And finally, the respected representative Josip Boric and the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45834	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Spoljar, I agree with most of your debate, and it's always O.K. And correct. However, the Law on Education and Education, elementary and secondary education in Article 12 makes it clear. Primary education starts with enrolment in the first grade of primary school, it is mandatory for all children. So we've solved everything. Which is why we're telling a story about compulsory preschool when we're going to enroll in first grade all the kids who are six and are able to enroll in first grade. Why do we talk about it when we put all those who go to preschool programs in kindergartens about what Mrs. Cvetovic was talking about, pay it so that the state, you talk about some 500 children, make it possible for them and make the difference between all of them. When they're going to be enrolled in first grade anyway whenever they show up in front of a primary school or I don't know which school. That's the basic question. Why do we tell a story about mandatory when we know we're going to sign it up anyway? But you can't go to high school if you don't finish primary school. And the first grade of primary school can be enrolled if you don't finish preschool.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45835	The answer to the replica of Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45836	The harmonisation of the Law and the vertical passing of the Law is a matter that will be resolved and is very likely on that path that you have asked the Minister at the beginning of your replica to his presentation. But what I want to say on this occasion is that I come from Krapina-Zagorje County where no single child, regardless of the status of the material local and regional self-government, is enrolled in the first class without compulsory preschool education in any form or as short as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45837	Thank you. The word is now requested by Minister Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45838	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So since Mr. Boris, Branko Hrga, Ljiljana Cvetovic's discussions so far, most of it has been about funding without constantly repeating these discussions, perhaps in the next discussions on behalf of the Clubs and others, of course it is possible. I would like to reiterate that I stressed that just for the very reasons of the need to provide additional financial resources, it was decided to start implementing this since 2014. And it is clear in the law, I will once again quote: "For the implementation of this Act, the provision of additional financial resources from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 and 2015. A year.". Therefore, we have already stressed in the Law that we will provide additional resources. Of course we've done a complete analysis, the complete analysis here is which units, how many children there are, which units don't have preschool care and besides I'm calling and let's once we make a decision that the municipality, a city that can't finance kindergarten shouldn't be independent. Well, that's one of the basic rules in Europe. One municipality must have kindergarten and school. If she can't have kindergarten and school shouldn't be independent. Therefore, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports will co-finance these programmes. They are partly in the power of local self-government units. Therefore, local self-government units have done so before. You've heard from Mrs. Spoljar, 99% of the children are already involved in some form of preschool. And connecting the preschool with the primary school which makes Mr. Boric is completely wrong. Because it is clear that children who have not attended any form of preschool are worse in the first grade and then later throughout the entire primary education. So preschool provides children with the adoption of some basic skills that will help them to master basic education more easily. And another piece of information is very important. We finished our first round yesterday, the summer deadline of the e-enrolment, the 45 grand of the 672s enrolled. At the same time as comparing data in the 5th grade in Croatia, there are 38 thousand students and this year 570 fewer enrolled in the first grade, 570 lower than in the first grade of primary school than in the last year, there are 40 thousand 272. But what I especially want to say is the data I want to single out, 2459 children were delayed enrolment in the first grade of primary school. So these are data to the extent that preschool education, early education, is important in order for children to get what they need to get into the first grade of primary school. I repeat, part of the financial commitments for this project will be taken over by the state, providing these resources in the state budget, but this is not part of a mandatory 9-year-old school announced in the strategy. So this is preschool. A mandatory 9-year-old school doesn't include what we're talking about right now and I'm asking you not to associate it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45839	Thank you. Now we move on the replicas. Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45840	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, this country works under some laws. So you have a law on the financing of units of local self-government that regulates how units of local self-government and certain needs are financed, whether it's a share of the state budget according to certain standards or something else. You can't say ad hoc is, we'll do it like that, you have budget projections for 2014, 2015 di not there. However, we should know that we take 20 of the largest cities in the Republic of Croatia, when you look at the cost of preschool education, it is an opportunity for them between 15% and 20% of the budget. Therefore, these are not very small funds for those who have solved it. And secondly, the criteria for whether someone will have the status of the municipality or the city is not at all whether they can have kindergarten or school, but the network of schools as is likely to be the result of inefficient schooling and very expensive schooling. Therefore, when you talk about preschool education, you must appeal to existing laws, which will change. In the draft law, you did not say how much you foresee the funds and how much resources you will secure in the 2014 budget, and according to the Rules of Procedure on the work of this House, this House of Higher House cannot discuss the law and cannot pass a law for which no financial resources are provided. And since according to the Budget Law, we have a commitment to make budgets for two years next year, then it's in collegiate with what you said. So that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45841	Replica, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45842	Thank you very much. You say, Mr. Minister, that the state budget will co-finance this program before starting first class. So you know that even now the state is co-financed by 25 kuna per child. ... 20, so it's cut already. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it can remain the same and form is satisfied. We'll have funding. But I'm still asking the question of what the funding ratios are for this program and what about children who are in the regular children's kindergarten programme in the final year before starting first grade. That's where parents normally pay that price. Are we now making this law a legal obligation that education is mandatory? If we do that and if we keep paying, then we'll put a mandatory education on the parent's burden. I think that it should say a little more clearly, however, that people know what it is, and in the extreme, when we are talking about education, maybe we should deal with free textbooks, not discrimination in Croatia, that one of the cities has free, and the rest of us in Croatia are some third row.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45843	Ivanka Roksandić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45844	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said you would provide increased funds for the implementation of this law for 2014. Your colleague Shuker has already told you that there is no state budget in the projections, and his colleague Hrg answered and asked questions that I just wanted to ask myself. Why do you resist so much then, and you say that we have focused all our discussions on funding this preschool programme, which is the core of this law, that is, the very core of this law, the obligation of preschool for all children, whether they attend kindergarten or not, the means that they must provide for now, according to this proposal, the unit of local self-government, even regional self-government for the transport of children. So I sincerely hope that you will still accept, reasonably accept our amendment that we are going to submit to you, which refers precisely to Article 10 on the fact that we want to ensure that funds for the organisation of child transportation to the nearest kindergarten or elementary school that implements the preschool programme are provided in the state budget. Because if it's really 488 kids like my colleague Spoljar said, then it's not big funds for the state budget, but for some local self-government units it's a big asset.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45845	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45846	Thank you very much. Well, you said in the debate that every municipality should be financed, it means it's a municipality if it has a school or kindergarten. Everyone wants to have school and they have it because it's funded by the state, but kindergarten doesn't have everyone because they have to finance it themselves and it's very high costs. But then in the debate, you said that 2470 if I remembered, their enrolment was denied this year. That's why you're introducing a preschool program. It's completely wrong for me. If you said that only 500 of them didn't go to preschool, it means that it's over 2,000, they must have been going to preschool, they weren't anywhere. Then we're not telling the truth. It doesn't matter, and I think if it's 2500, and let's subtract 500 of those that didn't go through, then 2000 remains the surplus that was somewhere in some system but didn't go obviously to the test. It is the most important moment and parents often decide and stop the child when they notice that he may not yet be interested in school and that he will leave it a year later and that he will be enrolled later. But by the age of seven, everyone is enrolled, except for children with developmental difficulties. And that's why we're saying that this law that prescribes mandatory preschool is like some kind of condition or something that's great that we're all going to be unequal because we're only talking about paying. Money's always a problem. It will be unfair for those who pass that system and have to pay even small amounts every month and over 1000 kuna each month compared to those who will then subsidize the state with about 20 kunas and still carry the burden on their parents. Because what does the preschool system look like to us? I'll tell you on my island where parents have to take their kids 20 miles in advance to get past those last two months before school. No one cares about them. It's the biggest truth. Nobody! They all have to do it on their own!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45847	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45848	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said the municipalities that can't provide preschool funds don't have to either exist or you think that with the possibility of fusion or by eliminating the municipalities then the issue of preschool education would be resolved. I don't think so, because you're wrong and you're wrong about it, and it tells me that you don't know Croatia at all, and you don't even know the situation on the ground, believe me. Because from Solta to Split, from... To Imotsky they're big, big miles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45849	And Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45850	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, when you mentioned the funding, then I thought I was wrong and you were going to say the good news. But then you said you'd be providing extra funds but you didn't say how big, and I want to say that they're very big, very big. If we're counting on just the need to build one kindergarten, I've already talked about it, about 2 million kunas might cost one of the smallest projections financially that would naturally meet the standards without talking about the other part. But also the part where the predecessors have already appeared and where you said the municipalities that can't maintain the kindergarten should not or should not exist. And in that part of it I believe that these municipalities need help, they need help to provide them with the same standard and that these children and those communities that they can. Because I can speak responsibly in the county from which I come not a single municipality that has not justified its existence, from that infrastructure, water supply, any other infrastructure that also contributes to the quality of life and these smallest inhabitants of ours. This section should also respect, therefore, this decentralisation but also local self-government, and in the Charter of Local Self-Government of the EU itself, so it is also important and is spoken of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45851	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, colleague Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45852	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, esteemed ministers, assistant ministers and assistant ministers. In my first reading on the subject of this law on behalf of the HNS Club, I was talking about a few things that I'm about to do in a moment. The first and basic point of the suggestion was that the law does not speak as much as we would like and how important we think it is about the key problem in our opinion, which is the availability of kindergartens, the availability of kindergartens for all children in Croatia and priced. We've been in power for almost two years now. In Plan 21 we wrote that this is one of the strategic priorities available to kindergarten, and even talk about free education including preschool. It's been two years. In that sense, nothing is yet to be seen and seen as a change to which it should go. I also talked about article 5 of this law on solutions at the beginning of work under changed conditions. I warned that there is a potential danger that because of the irresponsibility or error of the founder of kindergarten, kindergarten must be closed, i.e. it does not get that permission on the one hand or the danger that the unit of local self-government that issues this solution actually lies to itself and to the state and does not respect the laws. So it's also an article that should have been more specific maybe formulated. In Article 7 concerning the National Curricula, our observation was that the deadline between the entry into force of this law and the adoption of a curricula for a year seemed unnecessary. We still feel that this is an unnecessary long term, that we are wasting unnecessary time. Article 10 in front of school, there's been a lot of talk about it. You are respected ministers in your opening address, and in this explanation of the proposal in the second reading, it says that no one has disputed the introduction of preschool. That is, if we were to go precisely technically, it's probably true, because I really didn't dispute fully, but in my first reading debate, I put a large questionnaire on the fact that we're introducing a mandatory preschool, or that we're introducing it without all of us here having a thorough analytical explanation for why we're introducing it and how it's going to change the situation that we have in front of school. You are now in response to previous presentations in a shorter part of the course listed some of the possible reasons for introducing this school, but I still believe that we as representatives, as the Croatian Parliament, have not received an analysis of why we are introducing ourselves before school and how we will solve the very problems we face by introducing a compulsory preschool. I agree with colleagues and colleagues who warn that funding is not clearly resolved, that the funding provisions are not clear and not accurate. We also don't like this difference between preschooling in kindergarten or school depending on the possibilities because it seems to be two completely different categories and will lead to a completely different, actually way of spending before school. And the fact is, the fact is that we have neither in elementary school nor in any other system in the Republic of Croatia, let us be honest with the same conditions and that the exact same conditions are the illusions, or utopia to which we should go, but it is difficult to ever achieve. However, this does not mean that we need to introduce new systems that have built-in inequality but in the beginning within. And this provision of 20 km, up to 20 km, has to be arranged for transportation, so above that... It's all Ministers don't get angry but it's still quite vague and problematicly formulated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the article 19 forbidding promiscation, I also talked about it in my first reading, kindergartens have fences, buildings, walls that do not look either at the playground or children see them. There's no reason to forbid people that you're such a miserable, miserable kindergarten income to completely forbid them of any kind. Why don't you put on one back wall that's, say, facing a road or a kindergarten somewhere and put on that huge, biggest ad covering the whole wall, if you could help yourself with your budget? On the one hand, the article is very restrictive because it speaks of a ban, and on the other hand it actually allows a lot of arbitrary decision because it speaks of it other than what, therefore, is banned from what is not in line with the goals of education and education. So again we're actually opening up that possibility again of additional complications, additional interpretations, additional problems. This article should be much clearer and more precise in formulating and providing kindergartens with an additional source of income. Article 20 of the infringement provisions, among those offences, we have violations which are the responsibility of the founder, and according to the article as you formulated the cost of paying, the payment of the penalty falls to kindergarten. We all know how it works. Gardens get money with a lot of, a lot of delays very often. So there was also a need to formulate more clearly and more precisely. I said it all and in my first reading, unfortunately you didn't adopt any of it. We're very sorry. You could've at least done this commercial thing where kindergartens can help themselves in the budget. So here's the law remains, unfortunately, less good than it's good and much less good than it's supposed to be. Let me just finish my presentation with one general observation of kindergartens and people working in kindergartens. So it's both physically and mentally extremely demanding and hard work and on the other hand extremely responsible. We are saddened by the modern way of living in a situation that parents often spend less time with their children than breeders and kindergarten teachers do. And the conditions in which they work are not satisfactory. I have an example, it's such a good-looking detail how things work. Vrtić, in a big city in Croatia, gets money for doactic material for the current year from his founder on 31.12., literally, I do not caricate. 31.12. comes with money for doactic material and then on the Old Year you have a situation where you have all your aunts, they're dragged out of the year, they're called from home, they're visiting 31.12 when toy stores and doactic material are already largely emptied and not working, 31.12. aunts are running around town looking for toys and doactic material to spend those funds for the current year that they've been given the last day. So it's just an example of how things work and everything. And what the state needs to do, I'm a great advocate of decentralisation, but here it's really right, I've forgotten one of my colleagues or colleagues said, I'm sorry I forgot exactly who, I think, Mrs. Rocksandic, that we really transfer responsibility, and we don't transfer money and that's our key goal. Our key goal is in kindergarten and preschool education, whether the state takes a stronger role in the system or that the funds are finally being transferred so that local self-government units can finance it as it belongs. And you often, often mentioned strategy as a word that revolves around you, will be in the next item of the agenda quite certainly a lot of mentioning strategy, but if there is something strategic interest and a strategic goal would have to be the Republic of Croatia then it is preschool education and kindergarten and if something and it is my proposal and the proposal of the HNS Club if something should be done, if something should start then it is the availability of kindergartens. Let's start putting all the children in the Republic of Croatia in kindergartens free of charge or at the cost of which every parent without that excessive burden on the home budget can pay. And if we do that in one term, we've done a hell of a lot already. Let's start with that, and then we'll go further polishing, polishing, preschool standards, advertising, criminal provisions, etc. Let's start putting all the kids in kindergarten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45853	Replica, Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45854	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Coleman, I'm signing your hearing completely. I just really don't know what you're gonna do? To support this law or not? Because you're just pointing to what we're pointing at all the time. I'm sorry there's not enough hearing from the SDP to listen to his coalition partner who's really making good remarks this time. You said that the strategic priority of Plan 21 is the availability of kindergartens. Much of it was a strategic priority in Plan 21, so citizens are now wondering why they supported the plan. Do you think, and from what you've told us further, I see that you don't think, I think you'll at least answer that, that the amendment to this law will lead to a strategic priority in solving preschool education issues? He won't. And it's true that you noticed, no one has challenged the minister's introduction of compulsory preschool education because it has its purpose, it has its purpose. But not in the way that it's trying to make these changes and additions to the law. So I'm saying I totally agree with you fellow Coleman, but I don't know what you're gonna do on Friday? Are you going to support a bill like this or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45855	Replication response, Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45856	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague, Roxandic, I don't know either. We'll see. I'm kidding, we'll support this bill, of course. We don't think he's basically bad, we don't think we should support him, but what we think we said very clearly, and I say it very openly now in the House in front of everyone, we're going to be even tougher and even more determined in the future, which is that some things really need to start working seriously. This is certainly one of the things that needs to be done seriously, and in this sense we as coalition partners will certainly increase the pressure in this direction and we will not reduce it regardless of the current support on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45857	Domagoj Hajdukovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45858	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So why are we introducing compulsory preschool education or compulsory preschool? I am pleased that colleagues and colleagues from the profession of all those who debated agreed that it was necessary. And that's why we don't have to look at some analysis, statistics and stuff because everyone who spent the day in the system so I've been talking in the last few years knows exactly why it's necessary, so now we don't go deeper into an analysis of why our kids are more unprepared for school than they were before, which is why they lack some basic knowledge and skills that are needed to function independently in terms of going to school, stay on class and stuff. In my view, these are all great reasons for the introduction of preschool so that in the first class teachers would not have to waste time with these basics but start working on the program. You said preschool work is extremely hard work. I wouldn't say it was a job, I'd say it was an invitation. It's a way of living colleagues and not just in preschool, but in school in general. And how important foresight is how important the school is and how important the teachers are to say the aphorism that I mentioned long ago in this House, which was long ago said by a Greek philosopher, he said, "If we don't have good carpenters in Athens, the Athenians will be barefoot, if we don't have good tailors, the Athenians will be naked, but if we don't have good teachers there won't be Athens." It is our strategic interest to make our education system as good as possible to give our young people a better chance on the market and in future life. And when you said all the kids in kindergarten, I agree. However, what is an acceptable price for all, for some who have no income and 100 kuna is unacceptable and very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45859	The answer to Igor Coleman's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45860	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Hajdukovic, is exactly the problem. you are saying that the reason for preschool introduction is that children should be prepared for burdens or as you said n requirements set by the school in the first grade. This is in my opinion the key problem of this whole story that we in Croatia have in the education system. In fact, the problem with preschool management is that we have come into a situation now that in the first class we are loading children with burdens that should not be burdened with children, so this is the problem that we have in Croatia. And that's why it's important for us to have too many analytical explanations and explanations for the things we bring to the House because for me it's not a reason for us to introduce a preschool, it's a reason for me to finally get into a primary school and see what we've loaded the children, students and students at school with that it's not even the first class enough anymore, but they need preparation for first class, skills. Are we better at skills? We didn't. Are we better at competences? We didn't. on the education lists of anyone we're better at? No, we're getting worse. So the problem lies somewhere else, and that's why it's not a solution for us to introduce preschool and then introduce a 9th grade that's also going to work. The solution is to see what we teach children, what it serves, is that school for the 21st century for Croatia in the 21st century, that's the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45861	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45862	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colman, two of your thesises, would try to bring down real life, which is the availability of kindergartens, and above all in 15, 20 of the largest cities where parents generally work, etc., every year at the time of enrolment in kindergarten trauma because it may be even more trauma than enrolment in school. Because if you don't have a child you can't even do anything about it now you're asking a basic question of the professional career of young people and even the most intelligent question. It's not even a harmless question when we put her into real life. So that's a very serious question. And when this kindergarten funding is put back on as if it's not happening to us, it's happening to someone in space that we bring down real life. I will take you to two units of local self-government in the Banovina area, one to the other The Majur Municipality and the town of Croatia Kostanica. The Mayur State municipality made the kindergarten 2.5 million kuna closed because it cannot be financed. The municipality of Croatia Kostanica half-empty kindergarten has been writing to finance ministers for years, sciences, probably colleagues Jovanovic and colleagues Linic have the same letters, simply Croatia Kostanica cannot finance the kindergarten, so we lower this preschool education from law to real life. We cannot say that the town of Croatia is not supposed to exist, it would be out of every sense for a million reasons. So it's not at all questionable what the minister is saying is that preschool education should be introduced, so that's something that I don't think anyone's arguing about here, but let's put this law into real life and then we'll see that it's a terrible problem. I'll tell you here's an example of the town of Velika Gorica for kindergartens is about 60 million kuna and it's still insufficient, there must be a kindergarten of some 250, 260 million kuna. So that's not even a minor asset at all. And not to mention a kindergarten standard that clearly depicts the power of the financial power of local self-government units. So it's a very important question that we want to go over lightly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45863	The answer to Igor Coleman's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45864	Well, I disagree absolutely, that's one of the key questions that's why I've been saying all this stuff. I think kindergartens are one of the key issues of general development. You forgot the labour market issue and let's just say the family can't get a place for a kid in kindergarten, most of the time, unfortunately, a woman stays home. So you have and there's one whole set of things and it's always about young families, most often about young families who are in the stage of creating life, most often in the phase of trying to get some real estate, and then if they have to pay 2.5, 3,000 kuna for some kind of guardian and because there's no kindergarten and then there's a mutilation on the other hand in the ability to take credit for the apartment. So it's a whole set of circumstances. And that's why I think it's one of every country's key priorities. And that is why, in that sense, I am also supporting, I think, in principle, I am supporting Minister Jovanovic in order to make the whole story come true, so that the whole story, somewhere in a positive direction, is driven, noting that in my opinion, we have to solve this key problem. And it can't just the Ministry of Education and Science, it must be included and the Ministry... development and economy, so a whole series of other players. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But to solve the problem of access to kindergarten for all children as an initial problem, as a zero problem from which we are actually moving further into all of these, in all of these procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45865	Dunja Špoljar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45866	Dear colleague Coleman, so I will concentrate on this part of the Amendment and the addition of the Law that we are talking about today, which is a mandatory preschool programme in the year before school, not kindergartens, so in general. So, this program existed and without now, we're not introducing anything new, no new system is being introduced. It existed in three forms until now and it exists today. So you were either integrated into kindergarten, in the year before you went to school, or was for longer or for the shortest period of 150 hours at kindergarten or at school depending on the organization. But what I'm saying is that a complete waist is nowhere to be doubted about is that preschool education is necessary and necessary. So we decided for him because we are aware that he really is extremely necessary for our children. What I'm saying is that material inequality and so far has been a challenge to all educational workers and that even so far, ambitious, enthusiastic breeders and educators have prepared and socialized children for school. Where they were taken over and with their safe hands introduced in preparation for life by also motivated teachers and teachers and provided them with optimal personal development and optimal education, I hope so from now on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45867	The answer to Igor Coleman's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45868	Thank you. I don't doubt the waist thinks we need preschool. When you do, when the forest burns, then you need a fire truck, of course. The problem is, let's see why our forest burns and shuts down that forest. So, in other words, why did it happen to us that on the one hand we have an increase in the burdens we are dealing with, so that all earlier we introduce compulsory forms of education, and on the other hand, this extended and increased compulsory education did not result in better effects. So that's what I'm actually talking about in a broader sense in this whole story. So the situation we want is that we don't need preschools, but that what we have as an education system produces more quality and usable effects to say it like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45869	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party, colleague Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45870	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, Minister with Associates. So, in his opening statement, the minister said it was a compliance with the regulations, our regulations with the European Union rules. He talked about the need for lifelong education. And if I'm not all wrong, all the MPs who have said it so far have all mentioned it in the short part, not at all challenging in any part of that need, including a colleague of Coleman who's just put the thesis on whether we are currently in a situation to say we are extending that deadline, compulsory schooling to nine years, to make that short of the story. Or maybe, at this point, the priority should be to reorganize education in this primary school, eight-year schooling. So there's no need for someone on this side, anyway we all know what Friday's going to look like to vote for someone to convince us that this is something that's necessary. Yeah, it's necessary, it's good, whether to implement it one way or another it's already questionable. If you noticed the only reaction so far, the minister to all discussions and clubs and replicas was actually to why we react only to finance why we do not respond to the rest of the text of the Law. The Ministers text of the Law does not dispute, no one disputes the intention, no one slows down good ideas, now they can be different and they don't have to be quite in agreement too. But the fact is that you can have as many good wishes as you want, you can set good goals, but if you're aware at the beginning that they're inconclusive, then question how much it all has to do with purpose. Perhaps even this idea that counterpart Coleman presented about considering the possibility for kindergartens to be available to children in Croatia, perhaps this idea in this case is still a priority. Anyway, I'm not going to say that it delights me, but it really cheers me to hear representatives of the talking ruling coalition clubs, I'm not going to say critically but well-meaning things that may have been made differently, maybe I should sort them out in some way. First of all, the problem which was mentioned by especially colleague Roksandić about the availability of schools or kindergartens and the existence of kindergartens. The Croatian costanica was also mentioned. We have already mentioned countless times here and this is a problem and it will not, this is a good thing that is being delayed for one year but for, during that year, there will certainly not be a change in the way of funding compared to decentralisation, so we will now have some significantly higher resources in local, local self-government units, which would allow Croatia's Kostanica, i.e. kindergarten in Kostajnica to survive normally. But let's say colleague Roxandic mentioned the Court. Minister, if you know that the Court has one single daily relationship, in 24 hours, one single relationship. So I'm asking you who I'm going to think if I'm not wrong, there are 26 settlements in the municipality of Dvor, which can get someone to arrange the transportation of all these kids around who are practically doomed to what, to escape from that environment so it's better to be a social case in big cities than to live there on their own because you have nothing to do with anything. I don't know if you realize that Croatia is not only four major cities, that Croatian citizens live in these environments where life is really impossible, really extremely difficult and impossible. And now if you don't secure the minimum you need then you can prescribe whatever you want, but if you're aware that you haven't reached a prerequisite for it, I don't see what the point is. In order not to make it look like just around this part, I'll just remind the MPs I think they've all got on the benches, and I've submitted an amendment to Article 25(3). The working relationship in kindergarten cannot be designed by a person who is legally convicted of one of the crimes, for domestic violence, unless rehab under a special law has taken place. Minister, I'm speaking on a case that really happened and may happen again and there won't be any surprise, so we don't need to be surprised. In the amendment, all I'm asking is to delete the family. Generally violent behaviour because we have cases, you have heard that in Croatia people are freed even for the most difficult acts because they are from a good family. So it happens that, say, a bully physically beats the parents of two small children in a public place and gets punished for disturbing public order and peace, and then hires the same bully in kindergarten as a janitor. Well, isn't that a paradox? Now we're giving him a chance to beat that same parent in kindergarten. If someone's a bully, he's a bully, and I think that part of it I hope you'll take him into consideration and adopt him because he's not, when cases like that happen, then we all wonder if we could have avoided it. I think in this case, he can react with this amendment so we can correct that illogicality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45871	Thank you. Ivanka Roksandić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45872	Thank you. Comrade Novak, you have well warned that the application of this law is very easy in larger cities and municipalities, but you have listed our municipality from Sisak-Moslavina County and colleagues Shuker has mentioned, we come from this area and we know all the difficulties of organising basic education that is mandatory, let alone preschool education. There is one elementary school where more than 20 small settlements are connected, and some of them have 2-3 children, and we are happy when there is a young family who will have a possible child to enroll in primary school, so now, according to this law, we should also provide child transport for preschool. We welcome this law, but the essence of this law is the provision of financial resources, and as angry as Mr. Minister is is, however, the essence of the issue of the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45873	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45874	Thank you very much. Comrade Roxandic, I don't think the minister is angry. Don't be angry, I know he's also aware of this situation and I'm sure of good wishes or intentions. However, if we cannot realize something, it is doubtful whether or not we should prescribe it as an obligation. That I absolutely support the debate of my colleague Coleman who said if there's an analysis to be made, if it's really going to be controversial, not only Banovina, we're now on Banovina, but it's not just Banovina, there's a guy who's probably in the same situation. I doubt the Gorski Kotar is in any better situation. The plant and the top and bottom, all there is that absolutely this law could use, is just a matter of whether it's enforceable. That's all there is to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45875	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45876	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Since the beginning of today, we have been discussing this as colleague Coleman has said to an important issue, and in the first reading, we have highlighted the importance of preschool education. This law has been experiencing changes for many years, I sincerely hope for the better, that the better this system of education is done. Preschool education and education is an activity financed and provided conditions for the establishment of a local self-government unit. As over the past few years, each of the units of local self-government has developed a preschool education programme... in kindergartens there was a need to adopt state pedagogical standards. The colleague spoke at the outset of these pedagogical standards and was aware of the fact that a whole series of pedagogical standards adopted in 2008 were well-intentioned to level the working conditions and life of education and education in primary schools and because of the financial situation of the units of local self-government and the state budget were completely unfulfilled. The goal before school education, each before school education, and the goal of these pedagogical standards was to increase the number of children enrolled in kindergartens especially in this preschool programme or so on. small schools. Progress in this area is if you look all over the years is visible, as colleagues have said in their discussions and the minister mentioned that almost 99% of preschool children are included in these programmes. We heard today that some 488 children are not included for now and that these children should and should certainly be included in these programmes. Also in the development plan for education and education from 2005 to 2010, the goal was to achieve as many children as possible from the earliest age to school age in pre-school programmes. And I said that the data says that every year more and more children are involved in preschool programs. However, the place for children in kindergartens is getting smaller and, as someone said, it seems to me that my colleague Shuker, at the beginning of each year when you enroll children in kindergarten parents, is mostly young parents are experiencing major traumas, bigger traumas than those of the parents who enroll, you will not trust children in high school and colleges. In kindergartens, there are a whole range of professional associates, valuable people who depend, really depend on the financial resources of their founders, founders of local self-government units, and so on with training, and so on everything that happens with life and work in kindergartens. Why am I pointing that out? As we said in our first reading, part of the proposed changes are related to education reform, i.e. legal provisions relating to the required level and type of education for pre-school staff should also be harmonised. We will not fully criticise this proposal because you opened up the possibility for ministers to establish children's playgrounds by natural persons, craftsmen, which is good because it will allow young, unemployed breeders to mainly be female population starting a playground. It is only a question of who will be in charge of the quality of the business that will be conducted in these casinos, is that according to this law of ours or under the Law of Turning, it is not clear. In addition to the regular program today, almost 70% of children who live in kindergartens are involved in other additional programmes were learning foreign languages, religious education programmes, sports programs, sports activities and these children are really getting eco programmes, a broad education, and indeed for that reason it would be good if all children were involved in preschool education. All these activities are related to the insurance of financial resources, with the payment of programmes now by parents or public needs programmes of cities, municipalities and even some counties. Unfortunately, at a time of this great crisis, some cannot even provide basic funds for kindergarten needs. We've already mentioned a few kindergartens today. For any additional programmes, it will be difficult to provide, although it is the need for children to whom we are all sensitive. And we will often give up perhaps some modernization of the road or something to provide children with the best conditions of stay in kindergartens or elementary schools. Unfortunately, both primary schools and secondary schools have two years back and less money for basic material conditions. Believe me, the decentralised functions have been greatly reduced in the state budget. Come and talk to your colleagues, the people who work in schools, that they are almost at the edge of the existence of material costs. It is good that you also accepted the changes we warned about in the first reading, that you accepted our thinking and explained in the new article 10, which you added the new article 23a. which explains that school is mandatory for all children a year before going to primary school. Because in the first reading, it was not clear whether the school refers only to children attending kindergartens or to the entire population. We also warned of an explanation of who will and how to finance the preschool program. In Article 10(4), it is defined at the recommendation of all in the first debate who will finance the preschool programme, as we have warned that it will not be completely free of charge as it is constantly spoken. Thus, the ministry suggested that for children who do not attend kindergarten programs, there are no kindergartens or elementary schools most often in undeveloped or poorly populated areas. For them, according to the new proposal, the counties are obliged to ensure the transport of such children if it is a distance of no more than 20 km from the place of residence of the child. We warned that we were already in cities, and in the replica I said that several times in municipalities, we imposed great commitments on the county and those because of the lack of budgeting cannot satisfy the current needs. How did you imagine ministers would start kindergartens or organize preschool programs in an area within 20 km from the place of residence of a child if kindergartens and schools were distant anymore I don't know if you're aware that even now some units of local self-government have no funds, I repeat, for existing kindergartens. I have already mentioned several times and today my colleague mentioned this kindergarten in Croatia Kostanica but he is a good example that three years ago can't survive at all. Several times in the state budget, the government had to allocate no small funds, about 700 thousand kuna if I'm not mistaken, for the regular business of that kindergarten. We warned in our first reading that we would specify exactly who would finance the work of preschool and we received the answer – everything goes to the burden of the local community and on the financial burden of cities and municipalities we have already warned. We have warned that we are making decisions on a mandatory preschool programme for which I have no objection because we must note that even the past government has even changed the Constitution because, in Article 66, education is available in the Republic of Croatia under equal conditions in accordance with its abilities, compulsory education is free of charge under the law. Now, in the draft of this law, the ministry is being built on the obligation of insurance for preschool funds. By applying Article 50 of the existing law, part of the funding for the public needs programme in the field of pre-school insurance shall be provided in the national budget. Since it was supposed to, then, predict ministers at least a percentage, 50% from the state budget, 50% from the local community. Or propose to amend the Law on the financing of units of local self-government and increase the share of income tax belonging to units of local self-government and thus provide them with additional means of functioning. It is good that after the first reading you realized that the implementation of this law needed to secure the funds because the first reading repeatedly stated that it was not necessary to secure the funds and today we heard at the beginning that for 2014 when the law was applied you admitted that the funds should be provided. Don't get it so hard to understand this word admitted, but unfortunately in the budget in the projections of the budget that we have made for this year and for the next two years there is no such funding. Also your proposal in the first reading that no additional resources are needed has concerned us, and also in this explanation you said, and I will try to quote that these funds in the projections of the 2014 and 2015 budget are provided within the limits of total expenditure for the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which means that you will have to take someone to give preschool education. So I don't see that you're going to increase these items. And there's something else I want to say, don't think that we are against the introduction of compulsory preschool education, but we are really against what is proposed in this bill, which is that this law can only be implemented on the burden of units of local self-government i.e. cities, municipalities and counties. I wonder, in the end, Minister, why rush to such a law? Will this program, after the introduction, experience failures such as unprepared introduction of health education, decision-making on the need to not conclude grades at the mid-term, so ask teachers and students at the end of the year what this has done in schools or the announced printing of new textbooks by the old curricula? I don't think we should play with the education system. We all always go back to the beginning and we all say that education is the most important thing for the development of one society. In order to help local self-government units, and to help you ministers, we will propose as a club of two amendments. One refers to Article 10(4) of the final proposal of this law. We would like to amend this article in a way that we say: "In the event that there is no kindergarten in a particular area, i.e. primary school that implements the programme of pre-school units of local self-government, it is necessary to ensure that pre-school for children referred to in paragraph 3 of this article is implemented in a way that organises transportation to the nearest kindergarten or primary school that performs the pre-school programme unless there is a distance of more than 20 km from the place of the child's residence. The funds for organising the transport of children to the nearest kindergarten or primary school that implements the preschool programme shall be provided in the state budget." I don't think an additional clarification is necessary, that I gave in my debate. In accordance with the proposed amendment, we propose a second amendment to Article 18. In this final proposal, we want the amendments to the law to this Article 18 to be deleted, so that the old article, which states that public budgets are provided for public needs of pre-school education. I note, not part of what you suggested, but funds for the public needs of preschool education. And you will, I hope, provide sufficient resources to implement this program. And here on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to say this, if you accept these suggestions and these amendments, we will support this law. If not, we won't be able to support the law because of all those units of local self-government, because of units of regional self-government that won't be able to ensure the proper implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45877	We're moving on to replicas. Branko Hrg, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45878	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague, Roksandić, I disagree with you that 50% of the funding for this programme should be provided. If this programme is planned to be one of the 9 classes of compulsory primary school education, which is therefore, it must be identical in funding in all other classes that are held in compulsory education. So that's how it's supposed to be in that part. As for this finding of yours, there are fewer and fewer places in kindergartens, so kindergartens as institutions that are the founders of local self-government units, but today we have a mass of kindergartens that are the founders of a private natural person or legal person. They are in the system of maintaining public programmes in preschool education units of local self-government they are co-financed from the budget of units of local self-government and they are in fact a solution to the accommodation of all children who are needed. We just have to make some directions as a state and say that it might be the same one of those strategic things in strategic investment, so that we're going to start an investment cycle to build private capital kindergartens and co-finance them from local self-government. So anyway, with all due respect, but I'm saying it's not normal for something that's mandatory to be on the burden of local self-government, and it's even more abnormal to be on the burden of parents. In this law it is not clear and as such it is simply not good, it needs to be worked out and done even though it is good to discuss it, to see the shifts but it needs to be done a little more.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45879	Reply to the replica Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45880	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You didn't understand me very well about this 50%. I agree with you completely, and in my debate I have noted this, what is mandatory is mandatory for everyone. So you should as well provide for primary school in the state budget. However, the Development, Education and Education Strategy will show that we will have this primary education, whether it will be nine years old and I would not really identify this with a mandatory part of the school but I have cited the possibility of a minister and tried to ease myself and the units of local self-government how to finance this obligation that we state by another law. Not in elementary and secondary education, but in preschool education. And you're aware of that and you yourself said that there are kindergartens whose founders are not only municipalities, cities somewhere and county but also private persons and that they are co-financed also from local self-government units, there are different models again according to the opportunities of local self-government units. So that's why I've been looking and thinking about it, it can't be Minister Jovanovic but it can affect Minister Linic or all of us to change the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, so that then a small share of income tax increases to belong to the cities of municipalities and counties, and then we would eventually meet the need to increase public needs both in primary education and pre-school education. I have noted that it is only one of the models of our thinking about solving this problem, if the ministry does not decide on the 100% funding of this transport proposal for these children who are unable to attend their preschool residence.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45881	Stephen Milinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45882	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Members of Roksandić, you said that many parents and these days when they are both in kindergarten and running are experiencing severe traumas. Understandably, we too who are holders of certain duties in local self - administration also do not succeed, and thank God in my midst succeeds but many who traumatize it but are incomparable. in any case, in today's circumstances when many young families are fighting for a naked existence, when the workplace is rich and under these circumstances and employers do not have much mercy and understanding, the problem for them seems insurmountable. And now, under these circumstances, we talk about a child's rights convention, about rights like this, about rights like that, and what about the right to the child's fundamental social security? Many families have no basic social security, economical, that they can live a normal and healthy life in their families. Of course there are great regional differences that you've been talking about. In many areas, the availability of jobs is not the same as it may be in the larger environments, and most of all I underline the problem in rural areas in our environments where many families have defined and formed model OPGs, and every moment they have tried to spend and work, they can't fight now, and simply if they have the possibility that they can't devote themselves to a child, it's certainly disabled, and if they can't enroll in kindergarten is an additional difficulty and put them in an unequal position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45883	Reply to the replica Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45884	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Milinkovic, Colam, is well in his debate, which I said I would sign fully said that this problem of preschool education is a very broad issue. I would say the big problems of this society, and now I'm going to tell you why I'm going to mention unemployment. Do you know what happens in those units of local self-government and those kindergartens where there's a small number of opportunities for children to enroll, and that's why I was talking in kindergarten and colleagues were talking about it, that parents are experiencing trauma. So imagine one of the criteria for enrolment and advantage in enrolment in kindergarten can be your parent's employment. Today unemployment is growing, in my town of Sisak every day someone loses their jobs, they are mostly young people. And then you know what happens in some environments? It is precisely that this criterion of both parents' employment and the advantage for parents’ children experience that children more in general, if a father or mother loses a job where they are punished by being threatened by their existence, they are also punished by losing their place in kindergarten. It's a tragedy. And that's why I'm saying, and I agree with my colleague Coleman, we're not discussing this problem today, but we're also discussing it. We are discussing this because it is all about the financial situation of local self-government units and the possibility of providing funds for all children living in the area through public needs in preschool education.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45885	Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45886	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Roksandić, you said, you noted in your debate the problems between rural and urban environments that it is better in the city. It's not. In a big city, say, in the city of Rijeka, you have almost 5 hundred children who are not enrolled in kindergartens that have remained out of the system. It means that even large cities can't solve the question of preschool in just such a simple way, not just preschool but preschool education. Although there are most of them in the manger groups. But it shows a clear need to invest something. But there's no investment there. And what you said secondly means that the failure of all the announced reforms is obvious. We heard at the beginning of the minister's term that, let's say, the swamp in the sport will dry. If she existed, I don't know if she dried up or got bigger. In my sense, it became even bigger and the sport disappeared from the focus of Croatian citizens in the first place. We heard a story about health care. Introduced, started, only now is the public debate going on. He had to intervene with the Constitutional Court to make something fit. Now we hear other announcements. Judah at school. Where? We hear the announcement of new, new reforms in primary-school education. Five classes, let's say class classes plus four, let's say what we now had from five to eight. Nine years of primary school. So such reforms that are essentially not there, which only impose some obligation without the participation of the state to pay the same and obligations, to create conditions, infrastructure conditions. Our system is every day we have to conclude it worse and worse, not to mention the bribery of those who lead and edit and work in it who have never been less paid with never again imposed obligations. I say it again from the same ministry and the minister. Simple problems are very visible and this evaluation where we have lost many successful students now clearly shows that everything has been missed from the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45887	Reply to the replica Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45888	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I fully agree with you, I am not a supporter of the reform so that we can meet some of our plans and programmes, even if it was Plan 21 that no one is sticking to it anymore. But the fact that this is a serious area, an area of education and very often changes and supplements, short changes and additions, and in certain laws, we are trying to show that we have done something that is phenomenal, which is new, which is reform. So we've said well, you've introduced an obstacle and health care education, and today we'll talk about amendments to the Law on Raising and Education of Primary and High School, and then we'll see what we're trying to do here. So we tried to touch the textbooks a little bit, so we tried to touch a little bit, I said in grading students. But we haven't gotten anywhere completely into reform. I sincerely hope and believe in a group of experts who are working on a strategy to develop education and education that we will finally get these foundations, these foundations. Because I'm not a supporter of the one where there's something a little touch going on and nothing's actually done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45889	And Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45890	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague, Roksandić, I am pleased that as an expert, you also agree that preschool education, i.e. that preschool should certainly be introduced. What I would like to ask you and my colleague, Boric, to which some of the allegations you have said have inspired me, my colleague, Boric, cannot answer me, but you can. Does HDZ policy change when it is in power and when it is in opposition? You mentioned that you had approached constitutional changes in order to enter the Constitution that education was equally accessible, free of charge and so on, but I will remind you that this government has introduced the subsidisation of the transportation of high school students from the place of residence to the place of education. So I'm asking you how according to the logic of the HDZ government, that education was equally accessible to everyone. If we're talking about unpreparedness I'll just remind you that Croatian National Education Standard... The HNOS that was born to me and why? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because we were preparing for him by saying at one point that we'd stop working like this and start working like this. This was not a problem for younger colleagues who had already applied some new methodical knowledge but had been a problem for older colleagues and colleagues who were used to working in a completely different system and who were much harder to cope with. So I'm asking you, where is HNOS today, nobody even talks about him anymore? I agree with you, the strategy when we bring it, when adopted, will result in new legal solutions. After all, this is just today we're discussing amendments and additions to the law. But I'm also asking you. Why your government used to bring cosmetic changes and additions and we didn't have a strategy just like we do now. So I'm wondering if your attitude is changing whether you have a government or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45891	Reply to the replica Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45892	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Our attitude does not change, we had a plan to develop education and education from 2005 to 2010. If you remember correctly, we lost power in 2011. So, you're expecting something new. As for the insurance of co-workers' funds, co-financing of high school transport, when you introduced it, you talked to the principals and the headmasters in the county, so you made a mess of it. You didn't know who was financing it, whether it was from decentralised functions that you reduced back two years. Are you aware of how much you've reduced? More than 10%. You've cut resources for education. You're talking about HNOS, so no one kicked the HNOS out of school, he was a newspaper, and that's what they're talking about, as they're going to talk about the new national curricula, as they're going to talk about the curricula in question, as they're going to talk about the strategy. Every time it brings something new and we haven't given up on what it is, so we went even to change the Constitution, even a colleague to change the Constitution, and here we are grateful to everyone, and to colleagues who were then an opposition, who supported it so that compulsory education would be free. It's the foundation of everything. So it's not easy to change the Constitution and don't say that we as a government didn't have the courage. We had courage, but we had a few colleagues, we had a colleague and a dialogue and a conversation and with the unions, with our social partners, but also with our opposition. We also talked on the Committee on Education and made very important decisions. There are people sitting here, your colleagues from the club who were present on board, and today, we have a board from today to tomorrow, unorganized, and today we're not negotiating anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45893	Thank you, colleague. Lock it down. The word was requested by Minister Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45894	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here in this block on behalf of the clubs spoke distinguished MPs Coleman, Novak, Roksandić. So the fact that I said at the beginning of today is that neither in the last debate nor today no one slows down the need for quality early and preschool education. The truth has been raised between the lines of the question why go into these some changes that we now propose. So for the simple reason that all professional research, scientific research, especially OECD research, shows that children who were involved in early and preschool education and education in the 15th year show better tests... language studies, mathematical competences, so that the profession and science have clearly said the longer you are and the earlier you are involved in early and preschool education and education you have a better success in your education. And that's why we're trying to improve this part as well. Of course, according to the law, pre-school education is in the jurisdiction of local and regional (regional) self-government units, and therefore we say and state in the law that, by special regulation, special standards and criteria, we will determine in which way the state can participate in co-financing of this project that we are now proposing and thus help wherever it is necessary, much of it in relation to some environments where it will be less. That's why you can't say it in a fixed way 50% because somewhere it's going to need more help, somewhere it's going to need less help. I told you today that 40 272 children were enrolled in the first grade of primary school. We have heard some data today that about 500 children were not included in any form of preschool education. According to data that we now have, which is the freshest, 1,500 children this year were not included in any form of preschool education, 1,500 children. So, if the preschool worked so far, do you really think that these 1,500 children will be so burdensome for local self-government and for the state that this project will not be possible since 2014. I think it will not be such a problem and that just as we have cited together with municipalities, cities, districts through the state budget it will be ensured that all those who have not attended any form of preschool education will be included one year before going to primary school. And I repeat, Mr. Hrg, this has nothing to do with primary school, it is not a 0th grade, nor is it the first class of potential 9-year-old education that may be after the adoption of the strategy after new development plans for education, education, science and technology in the Republic of Croatia have been adopted. I will not answer to the political demagogue of Boris at all because this is not where we should politicise today. We need to find solutions to how our children really have the highest quality system of education, education and science in Croatia, and that is why I have proposed amendments to the laws currently in force and the adoption of the strategy. The concept of full adoption of a strategy, body formation is the proposal of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and that is what we are doing, so we are trying to solve the problems that we inherited. Well, it's not my fault that pedagogical standards were passed unreal, it's not my fault that there aren't enough kindergartens because it's all been found and we're going to change that. It is not enough for 17 months, but I assure you at the end of this term you will see results that will show that the Croatian system of education, education, science and technology is better than the moment we took it to power.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45895	Now we'll hear the lines. First colleague Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45896	Thank you. I agree, Mr. Minister, that we need to find a solution together, and we're offering some solutions, but you really don't want to accept them, and I'd be really happy because I'm not negatively in the mood to tell you according to the introduction of this mandatory preschool education, or preschool, and I'd really be against myself as a professor if I were against it. But I want to warn you of something. Accept our amendment, support that this transport and it will be needed right in units of local self-government that will not be able to secure funds in the poorest indeed in the state budget. If we found money for elementary schools and high schools, here's what we mentioned about these 1,500 kids. Not all 1,500 won't even have to drive. So it'll be possible in the state budget to find it. So please leave this article of the 50th current law exactly the same. Do not say that funds for the programme of public needs in the field of pre-school education are provided in the state budget through public needs. Among other things, the preschool programme is listed. Now you've proposed part of the preschool program. Leave this preschool program because it will be a guarantee that you will be able to legally provide the means to transport these children to preschool, these children who will not be able to be, to pass the preschool program in the place of residence. That's what we've been warning about all along, that's what colleagues and colleagues were talking about. And that's why I'm saying, we're not against preschooling. That's what I'm saying and I repeat it for the public but also because of the way we finance it, we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45897	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45898	Thank you very much. So I have to react to the minister's allegations that I'm using demagogy, so I'm going to read what demagogy is. The method used by the demagogue implies deception by false statements and promises. Neither am I in a position as an opposition parliamentary representative to make any promises, nor have I made them. I've just cut off the work of the Ministry of Education over the past year and a half and all those promises the minister made and that definition says the following. Today, this refers to a person, mostly a politician who has false promises, spectacular accusations and a radiance of illusions, who acquires trust in broad masses and manages their behavior. When I read that and I know what was going on at the Ministry of Education, what kind of announcements we had, then it's clear that this fits perfectly on you, Mr. Minister. And for me, these spectacular results for you are actually the most devastating part of the current policy of this current government in the past year and a half. The Croatian education system has never been worse than in the past year and a half as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45899	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45900	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, here's a thank you for answering that the preschool program before leaving for the first grade of elementary school is actually not going to be in that mandatory 9-year-old education that's being announced. But then I don't see the meaning of this obligation in this law, because if it is about 1,500 children as it has already been said here in Croatia, it could have been solved this way. These are probably more undeveloped areas, poorer, more islands or something, and could have been done immediately because the figures show that pre-school education is being pre-schooled in Croatia in a huge percentage without someone making it mandatory. It means that both parents and units of local self-government and institutions operating throughout Croatia have recognized it long ago, and there, since the 1980s, this programme has been implemented in the end and that they have already implemented it as such. What is important and what is important and what is really most colleagues and colleagues warn about is the problem of funding. So, a child who, there was a talk here about losing a job, about dropping out of kindergarten. So, a child who is in the final year of the kindergarten group before leaving for primary school can happen to lose their parents' job and have to get out of kindergarten. If we're going to move that child in half of some pedagogical year to a small school, we're going to look for his place where he's going to go next. If it's mandatory then it has to be free, but if it's the law, then you can't put it on the back of the local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45901	On behalf of the SDSS representative club, counterpart Dragan Montenegrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45902	Good afternoon. Dear vice president, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. The stand-alone Democratic Party's club will support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Preschool Education and Education above all because it is human, because it is reasonable, I would say because it is human. We're just sorry and we're hoping he'll be adopted, but we're sorry to assume that he'll only take effect next year for a number of reasons. First of all, in today's debate, no one considered it questionable whether it should be introduced or not. I can tell you that I'm sorry a lot of parents and their children who haven't had the opportunity to have their kindergarten as the law says since 6 months of their lives. Probably because they didn't have the opportunity, maybe even those places didn't have the infrastructure for it. But first of all, from the point of view of these changes, we first look at the position of the children and parents who send them to kindergarten, that is, these preschools. So far, they've had to pay for it. From now on, I hope at least that year doesn't have to pay, not these thousand and a half who will be able to attend, but for all those who have attended, who have paid for it. How did they pay? Well, it's pretty hard in rural areas. You can imagine a parent minimumer of 2000, 2500 thousand kuna and then the economic cost of costing kindergartens must pay, or pay the difference paid by a unit of local self-government that allegedly doesn't have money. It occurred to me in today's debate that she talks about elections, about the mayor who visits kindergarten, the home of pensioners or pensioners and prisons after the election, so she determines who she will give money to. Well, at least I'm kindergartend, and then I'm home to a pensioner and eventually he changes his mind and says the most to prison because what we're going to say after the term, we're not going to go to kindergarten. Everyone's looking at themselves, I guess. And I also remember the debate that we have been accused here of how many large incomes they have, and no one is saying how much income mayors have, mayors, mayors, mayors, headmasters, directors of public institutions, founders and units of local self-government, companies. No one sees where all that money goes to waste to say so to the state, and in the end, they still have to pay it to tell my parents to squeeze in with all the force of this difficult situation. You mentioned Costa Rica, I wonder how many people work there? But that's why we owe you who's gonna pay? Will they pay the state's local self-government unit? I would say irrelevant, but I do know that many units of local self-government as a colleague presented in today's debate on 31.12. release funds. So they had these resources, but they wouldn't let them go because they needed some other demagogue things they did, things they owed. Yeah, I'm having a hard time getting this ride, too. I remember some of the effects of the HNOS that were and that remained as one bad burden, and you know who? To the parents. Yes, when HNOS was introduced there was free transportation, free textbooks, and then what was it? Then there was pressure from the publisher, pressure from the carrier, they raised prices. How many math textbooks were there? But they had to buy themselves. And after that, what was left when the state said we weren't funding it anymore? Who had to buy it? Well, parents. And nobody told these people who were doing business now you have to cut prices, no, they left those same prices and the burden fell on their parents. That's why we're going to be extremely supportive of this law. As for kindergartens, and this is what educations in the language and letter of national minorities are, I would point out, therefore, that we currently have 27 kindergartens where a total of 1,752 students of the national minorities of preschool age and in these past years it is common by the rule that each child gets 75 kuna per month to buy a dolact from teaching funds that unfortunately cannot in Croatia for the needs of specificities of certain national minorities to buy here. However, that amount has not changed since '97. A year. It's been the same since '97. It's been years, and it's been shrinking. First it was 12 months and then 10 months and now at the end of 8. I'd be happy to have these funds back at least if they didn't increase, but at least return to the number of months they paid, at least 10 months that got me to say so. The importance of education may have been at the beginning of my speech, but I say because of this debate, I decided to speak like this, from the first year to the third year of life, it is clear to all those who are engaged or who have taught the schools of pedagogical that they are very important in the life of a child. But also all of them next, and in the end, for six years, I think one colleague mentioned that everyone has to go to school. No, not everyone has to go to school, there's one thing I think today we have information that some kids are prolonged into school because if they don't, if they don't meet the health criteria, they're delayed by a year. The law is prescribed, but it doesn't have to be that way. So complete education until school is extremely important. I'll try to finish as I started, so I'm sorry parents who don't have the opportunity to send their children to kindergarten for six months of their lives. We even talked about saying they don't have the right kids from the budget. And they have the right when they're born to inherit a debt or at least part of a government debt. A child born in the Republic of Croatia is already required, but has no right to do anything. We have submitted one amendment to this bill. So, first of all, for the purpose of harmonising the termological expressions in Article 15 paragraph 1 of paragraph 5, we propose that, instead of a programme for children, members of national minorities, the term should be coordinated in order to replace the terms of the programmes in the language and letter of the national minorities. We think that this is absolutely appropriate, more appropriate than proposed, and we hope that this amendment will be adopted. And what's even a little bit more to us than anyone has ever touched on the positive of this law is who in some way shouldn't be employed in kindergarten, so who shouldn't have raised those kids. And unfortunately, this law did not touch that, but it would be good to touch even the management of kindergartens through the administrative councils because we think there are a lot of opportunities for it to improve even that way. I'm even talking about the management of the principal or kindergarten director if you don't always have a situation with a person who spent five years, I'm saying in some parts of Croatia that she spent in preschool education, so that's what's supposed to be appointed director. We think there was supposed to be another option that would solve this issue. But in any case, as I have said, this part, or this complete law, is also part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme that we supported, and we will surely support this law on Friday. We are sorry, as I said at first, that he may not have stepped in or already since 31.8. unfortunately, but he will enter 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45903	Replica Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45904	Thank you. You've been talking so much about everything and everything, but I'm going to go back to two things. One refers to article 48 of the current law item 4 and I think that this freeness that you constantly potential I at least think you didn't understand well. The children's kindergarten established by the unit of local, regional (regional) self-government charges its services from the parents of the service users according to the criteria established by the representative body of that unit except in the pre-school programme, which is now a newspaper, which is free of charge for parents. Those kids who go to kindergarten in the last year of their life before the start of primary school, those parents whose children go to regular kindergarten will still pay for that kindergarten. They won't be released from you that last year of paying that last group. Only children who do not attend kindergarten will be required to attend preschool and should be given the city, the municipality should ensure the conditions of arrival, departure and schooling. So for them it will be free.For those who go to kindergarten they in themselves already in that last year before school let's say in the 6th year of their life they go to kindergarten and they attend the preschool program as a regular program of that kindergarten. That's the difference. And when I was talking about those who couldn't secure it, I mentioned my area of Banovina, unfortunately I was talking mostly about the children of your national minority who was inhabited in the Court and Clay area where we have children who really have to go to school, and we know how people live in that area and you pointed it out yourself. And that's why I think the state should provide them with all the conditions. And second when you mentioned HNOS, You do not have a HNOS signed free transport of students of elementary schools and textbooks, but by law you know basic education. [[Thank you very much, colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45905	The answer to the replica of Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45906	Dear colleagues, that politics is all. I'd say that maybe you didn't listen to me because in principle we know very well how many candidates for executive posts promised to improve the conditions of pre-school education or kindergarten, and what did they do here? Who did what specifically? Can I do that? I can, the law allows them, the founder can make Mrs. Collars all of you know that very well. As far as HNOS is concerned, you're right. I might have wanted to initiate some other things. I remember getting and equipping schools which was good, but you know how it went. Some schools had laptops and computers and projectors, some of them didn't even get it because there was no funding afterwards. And I remember very well when one secretary of state introduced us to whether they got or somehow managed to get a memo from one of the directors who said I don't know from the first we got money or books for the library from the other we got the laptop but you know what we would need now to do a little rebuilding the playground. So you know how it went so the pressure was high, there were various financial interests. So I wanted to say about transportation that we weren't the happiest at the time, we're not the happiest of these, but we'd do well to get rid of it once it's over so when it stops funding it so it doesn't fall on the back of its parents, and that's always the case, it stays and falls on the back of its parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45907	Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45908	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You've talked very nicely about this and you've been very nice many times contradicting yourself. I don't know if you have any experience in acting as head of local self-government, so if you do, you'll understand that very soon. But, you know, it's not easy to be the head of local self-government in a centralized state where new surprises come from the state level every day, and you're legally prescribed what you have to do. Thus, the law lists how preschool education is financed in public institutions where local self-government units are founders, precisely what must be paid, how much it must be, how much collective contract for employees, how much pay it all is prescribed. It is not only prescribed to collect electricity, gas, etc. This is not prescribed, as is not prescribed, to reduce decentralised functions for local self-government, for example for schooling purposes. You know that's what's not prescribed. And today to say here that local campaign officials promised kindergartens I don't know what they didn't, so surely they did, my dear God, so you said that you very well support this law, that it's a very nice law, and then, unfortunately, it's a reduced part of the funding for children from national minorities. So what did the current government promise in the campaign if they were to talk about it so we could say a lot now, so it's normal for local leaders to promise but they have to comply with their obligations under the Preschool Law. And the one before and the one and the one now that's probably gonna be improved and it's gonna be better for everyone. But anyway, what my colleague Roxandic told you. So, it's not free parents will still pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45909	The answer to the replica of Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45910	Ma, dear colleague, we know very well what must be paid for, the Law on the financing of units of local self-government said that, the unit of local self-government, therefore the income of the leader or not to tell the whole city and other administrations are aware of 20% of the total incomes, basic incomes. Look what you're doing, it's like you're not touching your salary, you're touching someone or you're firing someone down there, you're keeping it that way. So it's not a fundamental question of what to do, or what has to be financed, but a matter of good will or desire. I think that's one of the best questions. As for funding for national minorities, for national minority programmes. Mr. Hrg, that started before I thought in the last term, I think HSS was also in power, then, so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45911	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45912	Thank you very much for the well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament and Minister Jovanovic, colleagues and colleagues. I didn't get a chance to replicate my colleague, considering I don't have the right to replicate the Replicant. But the pre-election promise doesn't stand, and it doesn't bind anyone. So also children's kindergartens that were in the programme of any political parties or any future leaders of units of local and regional self-government stand nothing, so here is the availability of children's kindergartens in the Republic of Croatia according to statistics that exist both in the ministry and in some other acts in the State Statistics Office 55%. So 55% of children attend kindergarten in the Republic of Croatia and the other 45% never visit it. They never set foot in kindergarten. Who, by the age of 45% of children by the age of 6, I'm going to talk about this preschool or about a small school so we can call it a folk dictionary that there's no confusion and I'm going to talk about a small school. So who keeps them from zero or plus zero plus one day to school. Grandma's service? Or do parents who eventually stay home because of their children? And thank God for this unemployment, or at an unemployment rate of over 25%, there's a lot of them. Unfortunately, 40,000 children are born annually in Croatia. 40,000 enrolls the first grade of elementary school, 40, about 40 grand in high school. How many died in the Republic of Croatia a year? Fifty grand. The difference of 10 grand every year is less. So this issue of pre-school education and education and the law of any kind in this domain is a top issue and it's both ingenuity and demographic. And that's what Professor Akrap says in each of his presentations. It has just cited the problem of lack of sufficient children's kindergartens or a network of kindergartens in the Republic of Croatia. So that's where we're incompetent. And if we had kindergartens and a network of kindergartens that would make a kindergarten available to every child, then this little school class problem wouldn't exist. Because this class is performed in kindergarten completely normal from September 1st every year until May when that holiday, children's fairies, holidays if we want to go to English. And it's all settled. But whether it is concerned by the state, although it is not its domain, it has been transferred to local self - administration units and the burden of parents who pay various amounts depending on the rules or statutes of each kindergarten in any city. For example. The kindergarten in Slavonski Brod is much more expensive for parents than in Zagreb. There is a Mr. Mayor who has come to say some kind of social peace in which kindergarten is the maximum amount, the price of kindergarten in Zagreb is maximum of 500 kuna, in Slavonski Brod there is about 800 kuna, 700 to 800 kuna. And that's for parents who only employ one of the parents, if they're employed by two, then his price is lower. A very interesting Rules of Procedure, or I don't know what. Because both parents are busy and the child has to go to kindergarten. And here's one free man, so he's only entitled to 12 and then he has to pay a bigger price. Here are the conditions in kindergartens and conditions in the Republic of Croatia. And then we're surprised that next to that, let's say the birth benefits and the length of the maternity benefits, this is the second factor that decides, which can help the demographic, demographic restoration of Croatia. But what does the state do, has it decided to tell the bag to increase the number of kindergartens in that network? Did she help local self-government units build kindergartens in those areas where they're not there? For example, from Slavonski Brod to Vrpuj is 55 km away, there is no kindergarten in the area. How will children from the municipality of Bukovlje, Garchin, Andrijac, Gundini, Vrpolje, Kopanica go to a small school? And where? There's no kindergarten. And at the end of the day when we already have and we mention small schools then we know well that in the price that is paid to class teachers to do that and I don't know where, in what duration, is that third, fourth, three months. Is the educational program or curricula of a small school performed in places where there are no kindergartens, equal to those that perform children who go to kindergarten and who learn it from the 9th month one year to May next, it is 9 months. Can everything happen in those three months, all to say some material or what children should learn before school, and we all agree that what children learn by the age of 7 is very important in life and that at the age of 15, those who attend kindergarten show significantly higher levels of knowledge and skills than those who did not attend kindergarten, and 45% of children in Croatia do not attend kindergarten, to repeat that the thesis of the beginning. And we're in Europe. Finally, Croatia had demographic losses greater than France and Russia, and look at the availability of a network of kindergartens in France and the price of kindergartens in France. Zero, zero. Since Napoleon's wars are huge losses of French in the people, World War I, World War II, the Paris community, and I don't know what. And what France has concluded is that every child can be made available and free of charge to kindergarten and that's how it is in France. And Croatia, should we talk about losses since '41, '45, World War I, etc. I wouldn't want to politicize here in that sense at all if someone didn't get me wrong and about the Homeland War if I didn't. So what do we have now? We have Croatia as a demographic ruin that collapses every day, year after year we count more deaths by 10,000 than the number of born. It's a good thing that 40,000 newborns are being held in the first place, and that's a miracle. And that's why here when we're arguing about HNOS, this, this, whatever, it's not about that, it's not about article 23 and 24, it's about what I was talking about at first. That's what it's all about. Are we gonna change that at last if we have to. Well, you see, hospitals that are lost get a sanity director and become property of the state, one by the minister's decision. Can we, as a state, as a Republic of Croatia, as a Ministry, become co-owners of kindergartens and still invest in them. So here I am today listening to the Committee on Construction and Spatial Planning that the salaries in AUDI are for which we know the business and we know how to torture it and what to do with real estate etc., the average gross salary is about 12,000 kuna, 230 employees that is 56 million kuna a year. So let's direct the funds spent in various ways in this country where cars are purchased 1700, 500, ask God how much, buys HEP, buys the police, buys everyone alive, so you can take a little ride in the older car, my God, easier. So let's give it to our kids, let's build a kindergarten. Well, look, last night it was on TV, Samobor built a so-called. A children's kindergarten, energy-efficient, whether you watched on TV, with all the contents, is it so, ministers. Samobor, in the city of Samobor, for very little money. So can we come to our senses finally and here to provide our children with kindergartens, the availability and quality of kindergartens in this country. We can, we just want to, whether we want to or can't, and we can, only of good will, of mind. And now we're going to the articles that are here. In Article 8, where it is beautifully prescribed that this is achieved in kindergarten and is now speaking a programme of care, education, etc., early learning of foreign languages, this is the last point, the programmes of artistic, cultural, religious and myself, I have five grandchildren and what they are learning in kindergarten and I can say that I should say somewhat and satisfactorily. In Article 23a, the preschool programme says, it is mandatory for all children in the year before they leave for primary school. It's true there's a rule book, that's what the Ministry says, but believe me, I know the municipalities that run that program to say a little bit of hilly, I know those who prescribe a class teacher's competition and receive whom they want, and even unprofessional people receive it because it's politically-like, to educate these little kids in a small school. There's a lot going on, Minister. There's a lot going on in the field. There's a lot going on in the field. In case there is no kindergarten in a particular area, and these areas are very large or basic schools that implement the preschool programme, the local self-government unit is obliged to provide, debt, cannot, is obliged to provide. This means that part of the obligation is transferred exclusively to a local self-government unit. What is the state's support in this task to secure a unit of local self-government? In what way will part of the means possibly be transferred if the goodwill I was talking about is a little bit from the state to the local self-government unit so that this teaching is done in quality, uniformly, equally for all of our children. Well, they're our kids. Furthermore, it writes nicely if it does not have within 20 km of elementary school or kindergarten then the unit of local or regional self-government is obliged to start a kindergarten. Look to start a kindergarten or its branch, so it's no small thing to start a kindergarten. I said here's an example of Samobor that I'm saying, "I'm glad to say," so one kindergarten founded a montage type, energy-efficient, isolated, with all the possible contents that even exist in the most modern kindergartens in the world. So this is really such a duty that, and the financial obligation nothing from the Ministry, bags closed. It's easy for someone else's hand to kick ass! That's not the problem. Article 24 states that the following educational and educational workers are employed in kindergartens in care, education and education, social and health care, as well as care for children: an educator and a professional associate, a educator, a psychologist, a logod and a rehabilitator. Now, with this rehab guy, we've had a little bit of an idea, so we've sent Mr. Secretary and an amendment. So there's an educational rehabilitator as a profession, as a profession, so in that sense we've put one, another amendment in the procedure, and we'll see what Mr. Minister will say after all. And one more question. If there are no kindergartens in the municipalities or no elementary school that could do the small school's work, I'd say. Which is why we wouldn't hire personnel and experts equipped in children's, let's say Slavonski Brod, Mr. Minister. So, children's kindergartens Slavonski Brod, there are 11 of them but all of them are children's kindergartens, which is why they wouldn't go out, move around the municipality a little bit, let's say, Andrievci and Garcin, so that people who have experience, who are already stalking in the area, don't leave when they work until three, leave the afternoon and teach small school in villages, by schools in Andrievci. Is it possible to allow these staffs that have been completed, which have already been established in these jobs, in the jobs of kindergartens and small schools, to leave, so that based on the contest, there is something to say about the work of a coin or those who are on the labour market, on the desk, perhaps without experience, or yet with experience that they also earn a coin there? No, I don't. So, the unit of local self-government whose leader is clearly at the head of that unit, I'm not going to say as the sheriff says here but he chooses from the tender and contractors at a small school, to say under quotes. Here's a second. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Bring an end to the debate.]] And what's going on? What happens is that unprofessional people do this class in small schools. That's why it's hard to say if it's a man for this law, he's got good intentions, but the performance is questionable, so the HDSB club will also be restrained about this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45913	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45914	Honored Madam President, Mr. Minister, colleague Grubisic. I have a replica of your general exposure because you haven't made it clear enough that it seems to me what you wanted to say in terms of centralising what is essential, unifying the conditions in the education of the Republic of Croatia. I think the following should be said, because it is the fact that this ruling set, despite its promise to decentralise the state in that real content sense, is just implementing a harsh, rigid, total centralization of the state. But in what sense? To centralize money? To centralize income by thinking about taxes, thinking about this, thinking about what, and decentralisation of liabilities. So he's decentralizing high school, and so is this preschool education. Whoever wouldn't admit this is not gonna talk to him because this is a fact. So this ruling set decentralises obligations and thus creates unequal conditions for development in the country of Croatia. I believe that the state should guarantee, just as guaranteed in the full sense of that word, the guarantee of the state in each and last village the same conditions of education as in the Ban Jelačić square in Zagreb. This is the meaning of a state, a strong Croatian state that should ensure basic conditions. And this is total demagogy. Mr. Minister, you mentioned once to a fellow member of the Boric that he was a demagogue. Your policy was demagogy, that you will decentralize the state because it's exactly what you've done to centralize money, we can say rough money, and you decentralize obligations and thus the entire Croatian, I won't say let the public deceive and demagogue yourself accordingly. I'm sorry, I'm not into criticism, but I'm afraid this is the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45915	Thank you. You can't replicate the minister because you're... The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45916	Thank you very much, Mr. Marasovic, for fixing it, but you're the one who guessed what I was going to say. Here you have improved my thinking so that you have responded to what I have not said. But in any case, this government has continued to centralize fiscally, so fiscal decentralisation, and decentralisation of obligations. So it is the true continuity of the HDZ government and those who ruled up, here until 18 months ago, with further centralisation. So we are not surprised at the HDSSB at all about such attitudes and actions and such proposals legally as this one is today on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45917	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45918	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, counterpart Grubisic, on several occasions, was talking about pre-election promises probably alluding to past local elections. And all the candidates and those who got the trust and those who didn't get the trust and those who didn't have many in their programs were building kindergartens. Of course it's legitimately their right, because it gave meaning to this important problem. In the sense in which you spoke educationally and healthly and in all manner that certainly brings better progress in school all that stands. But, of course, all these candidates are expecting help, too. They were expecting help. Of course, the one who can help. Well, when it's moving into realisation and help, there's a problem. Whether it's from the EIB or the Ministry of Education. For example, many have thought about sports halls for years. And then when the realization starts, I'm saying each other's area this is the same thing. E sports hall, now it has to pass the check whether it's normative, whether it's standard for a single, two-part or three-piece. In every middle, please, our youth wants to play sports, wants to play football and handball and has a lot of talent. A lot of talented football players come from those environments that they could. And make such differences and some administrative fences that's not good. The other thing is, you were talking about goodwill. I agree with you on goodwill if it implies, of course, material help to help realize these projects. But you can't see that, and then you talk about some kind of availability and evenness, and it doesn't seem to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45919	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45920	Thank you very much, colleague Milinkovic. You see, I spoke first of all about the demographic problem of Croatia, and in the first sentence I almost pointed out and said it. So, about the problem of the innovative policy. And what's school and sports bipartisan and three-part hall worth to us if there's no children? It's not worth anything. So you see how many residents we have to say "lost" under quotes in 10 years. Why do we need such sports halls? But you see in kindergarten is the greatest insufficiency in education at all at this age up to 18, so it's this child's accommodation capacity. The school has almost enough, sports halls have enough, school sports halls, but no kindergarten. Only 55% of children have access to kindergartens in the Republic of Croatia. Schools, sports halls have a much higher percentage. In this, it is also an acute problem that the state prescribes the law and then transfers the obligation to a local self-government unit, which is mostly in this situation particularly poor. So let the state get rid of its bag and help make that kindergarten available more than 55% as it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45921	Ivanka Roksandić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45922	Comrade Grubisic, you have now said something in your replica, a reply to the replica, which I wanted to say. You were talking about the ultimate policy. It is a fact that ensuring your children in Croatia is the availability of kindergartens on equal terms is one of the basic issues and helps solve this problem, but it is not the only one. You know, this is a really complex question. However, the essence of this law is the answer to the question of who will bear the burden of a financial obligation imposed on units of local self-government by the adoption of this law? There is nothing else in this law, counterpart Grubisic, disputed. And so far, preschool was organized in kindergartens and even in some elementary schools where children don't have kindergarten, but it wasn't mandatory. So it was not mandatory and the parent decided whether the child would go to preschool or not, so that part of the burden and was financially filed by the city or the parent. This is a matter of obligation and this question that I asked who would finance it? I just need to answer that question, and I don't think there's gonna be any dispute about it at all. And when you were talking about unprofessional people doing these jobs here, I have to stand in defense of my colleagues and colleagues because the preschool program was actually spent in kindergartens, there are experts, professional teams who take care of those kids. If it was performed in elementary schools in some small places where there were no kindergartens, it was done again by kindergarten breeders and professional teams. So, as far as intricacies are concerned, we need to be realistic and I will say fair and admit that we have very valuable and truly ambitious educators, educational professionals and that we must not doubt their expertise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45923	Thank you. Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45924	My colleagues, Roksandić, the exceptions confirm the rule. I was talking about those places where a small school is being conducted in schools and where the municipal chief is calling a competition and receiving whom he wants to work at a small school. Do you understand what I'm saying? So, according to his intent, he receives whom he chooses to compete for a small school. And what's going on? So, to receive an unprofessional person. That's one thing. Second, you asked who would pay for it? There's a parable from a colleague of Dr. Laza Lazarevic, who says all these things, will make the people gold or rebuke whatever you want, and therefore we know that all these things will be paid by the people. So is this. And now the citizens who send a child to a small school here in one municipality, I won't speak the name of the municipality so as not to get angry with the chief, pay 200 kn small school. 100 kuna pays the municipalities, 200 kuna pays the parent if he wants to send the child to a small school because he will be enrolled in primary school and without a small school. Now it's becoming a commitment and now it's really a question of whether the state will help the local self-government unit and the parents to make sure that this school doesn't cost a parent or anything without being mandatory? You can prescribe the obligation, but then you also have to secure the finances so that the obligation can be implemented. And there's no financial obligation here, but there's a small school duty. And it's really interesting, let's just call and let him pay for it or dad, or the mayor will pay for it, right? That's not how it works. And that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45925	We're moving on to an individual debate. How Đurdjica Sumrak does not have a job and loses the right to debate on this agenda point and it is up to counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45926	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's what I'm gonna say about this law. I think this is a very important law, and I think he needs a wide debate like this that's been going on here all morning. What we have today in education in order to even talk about education about the system we need both institutions and process and content and ultimately the result in the function of acquiring knowledge, skills and development of abilities. This is a large system regardless of how complex it is in many small parts of this country in the way that it may have been for any local self-government. We're talking about a system that includes children from six months of life until they leave for primary school, which includes about 150 thousand students a year. It's 2 to 3% of the total population. The system has nearly 10,000 educational staff and 6 thousand accompanying staff means almost 16 thousand employees whose local self-government has to provide each month. We're talking about 673 kindergartens in over 1600 facilities. So something that's important, big and something that maybe shouldn't be approached in this ad hoc way, we're going to suggest something, so you go ahead and do it, because it's been very careful to build this system over the past twenty years. On it, a state other than legislation let's say power and there's no other power, it can only order. She's doing it right now. But I'm going back to the beginning. Institutions, we have cities, municipalities founders as well as some religious communities private kindergartens are means system, it exists, it is highly complex and supervised. There is a surveillance by inspection that this works in accordance with a law that has been in force so far. The process has existed since the beginning of the entry, the tendering, the setting of costing prices, and we have differences between rural and urban areas, so we have these big let's say the differences between paying for it. means in the rich environments less in the poor more, which is illogical but is our reality. As far as content is concerned, it is well prescribed through programmes that each institution must bring annually, every kindergarten for the year that follows it. Of course, according to that program, then we act, deal with those kids from the Badger Group, I say to the preschool itself, and we get what we have. And then what makes us think that a system that worked at one point in this kind of intervention where suddenly a mandatory preschool is just a problem. We in this system have 150 thousand children of them through the entire day’s program 112,000 almost 74% of children go to the biggest day’s program. A preschool system of 15 grand, short programs of 23 grand. Three types of kindergarten programs pass the preschool system. And now we say what we heard today, says the SDP club, we have 500 children who have stayed out of the system, and they should be cared for, says the minister afterwards, also from that party 1500 children. So we have one improvisation of almost no analysis that has been warned by fellow Coleman, we don't know what we want, where we want to come with it, but of course we always offer a change we offer the obligation that it must be because there's someone who remembered that and that might be something mandatory. And we know what's mandatory, if it's mandatory by law, then someone has to bear the cost. In this case the compulsory cost of preschool attendance should be borne by local self-government units. But then the minister says we'll co-finance it. And so far it's been co-financed, and I know what the amounts are. On 20 children, you get 400 kunas perfectly. How much is it for aunts, how much costs and everything else parents themselves have to go through to get into that preschool system, especially in rural areas, we didn't calculate it. Why don't we have one system of analysis here, the state is here a minister of some kind here in hand says here we have all the analysis. Nobody saw that, we don't even know what number of kids we're talking about today, we don't know what costs we're talking about, and we don't even know how we're going to divide all these 150 grand that go through three programs how we're going to divide those who pay to listen to the preschool program and get ready for school from those who're going to co-finance it because it's the same as the minister says the need, because they showed some analysis that the child at 15 years of age then thinks better, then it's more creative because it was in the system, etc. All of us in our education, growing up went through certain systems and in the former state was a preschool system, it was a system of kindergartens that was as free as I remember. Today we say everything needs to be paid. Let the parents pay. But somebody always has to pay. And the minister says this time, make it local self-government because we remembered that preschools should be mandatory and there should be a problem. What was wrong with the provision of the law where the previous or current current law recognized the preschool system as part of the kindergarten programme? Nothing. Did all the kids get into first grade? They did. Will all children be enrolled in the first grade under this law? It will. And that's what worries, we make a commitment, we don't have any paper, I don't know what's going to be prescribed through the rulebook, but when a kid finishes preschool, he's not like a kid who finished eight years of school because the last grade gets a license, I don't know, student book, index, graduation at the end of high school. To get into first class as a commitment. Goes to the test, parents either agree or disagree with the findings of those who test him and decide for themselves whether or not they want to go to school before the time, when they need to or will wait a year and then go to school. So there's no punishment for mandatory preschool, there isn't. Now the question is, did we then build that system up and set it right? It will again remain for parents to choose whether to accept this co-financing and co-financing and municipalities and to let a child into that preschool at all. If they do not like it, they will not do it. If these are their additional transport costs and everything else they won't do. But it's important to say that all the time it's been said that in this system of ours, education has been going through a lot of major reforms, and I say again that when we talk about education maybe in the last year and a half in the worst part of education in the past 20 years. Because if it weren't for the good of us teachers, teachers, teachers, going out into the streets, they wouldn't be looking for what was taken away from them because they're considered also underpaid and we can see through some events and unprotected events. The Ministry didn't do anything about it. What are our kids like today? Are we better through that system than we were two years ago? Here we have a nice provision on non-evaluation at the midterm and today, here it is today I don't know, 8, 9. 7. Many still learn to correct their units, there was no passing time. Some welcomed the end of the year unprepared. Everything's changed nicely. And we'd also like to see these analyses and statistics on the student's success at the end of this year compared to what we had before. So to determine if our children have made progress through indecision, whether teachers have found it easier to conclude in the end that they have explained to us that they are doing it because it is difficult for them at the mid-term, and then they only need to make it possible once, or we were worse. Personally from experience because I have kids I know they're worse, they're unprepared, they're all asleep and they've been waiting for the last month and a half days saying there's always those great, extraordinary, etc., which doesn't surprise anything, but indeed one big part of the students will be below the desired average. And then, of course, the parents will be unhappy. All in all I think this system doesn't bring anything new, we had a preschool system, it prescribes one obligation that makes for now a problem. We see all the mayors and mayors dispute her, so there was no broad public debate, as it was said. Because then I guess the opinion of the mayors and mayors would also be respected rather than being implemented at hockey simply so whoever gets it will be happy, and the minister says, the easiest way to solve this problem is to solve what is said in the people's bag and then the problem of compulsory preschool will not be as easy as it looks now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45927	Thank you. Ivanka Roksandić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45928	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague, Boric, you have well noticed that we are making some kind of at-hock decision, and that's what I was talking about and you were wondering if we were better than we were two years ago? We are not a colleague of Boric because making at hockey decisions can only complicate life and work in education and parents and students they are, and also teachers, they have done so precisely by doing so inconsistencies at the mid-term, you said so yourself. And we're also not going to solve it, you've well noticed that nothing will happen if the minister accepts our proposal that what he introduced is mandatory and pays out of the state budget. Because you mentioned well that the national curricula will be brought by the minister, which is normal, responsible for education and the content and duration of the preschool programme is prescribed by a rule that will also be passed within 6 months by the minister. The regulation can prescribe a lot of colleagues and colleagues for something that we can't even point to in this debate right now. It's possible by regulation to change a lot of things. That's why it's good, it's really good that we legally prescribe the obligation to finance. But not to those to whom this proposal is given, the units of local self-government, and so we burden them with one more, I'm going to tell the imposition and commitment without helping them financially from the state budget. It's mostly about weaker units of local self-government, so financially weaker ones, that's about them, but the opposite of giving them commitments and not giving them funds. That is why I think it would be good to understand and accept this proposal to amend Article 10 in which we are asking for the financing of the commitment from the Republic of Croatia's budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45929	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45930	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues, Roksandić, here in this law I read those criminal provisions, they will be the most important part of this Act because the minister can already start writing sentences for all directors, so one big one 70% of kindergartens that can't even meet everything he writes here. We cut off 5, 10 and more thousand kunas right now because it won't be possible to implement it. We're all well aware of that and I don't know what the point is, and then injustice. I said in the town of Rijeka I don't know of 3,000 and some requests for enrollment of nearly 500 children remained out of the picture. They have no punishment, stay and take care of it as you wish. You now have a grandmother service, you have a nanny with diplomats or what I know everything you don't, you have the possibility of a playroom now we see d.o.o., but take care of yourself, there's no punishment for them. Now the preschool system for your punishment. If you don't do it especially in rural areas that are far away, you don't even have school let alone kindergarten, no, not even the one where you could do it, choose to start a kindergarten. What are... ? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Disrespecting reality, disrespecting equality and creating a system of problems that will only come out of sight next school year. An eight-month break was taken, and we discussed this at the 11th month last year. The last hour went into procedure after six months and it's been standing here for a month and a half because we realized, the government realized that it couldn't carry on force, ad hoc solutions like it wanted at the 11th month, and that's good. And if they find the money for this, we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45931	Ljiljana Cvetovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45932	Well, a respected colleague, not exactly 500 children, is an analysis in Rijeka where, according to the current number of children in the first grade primary school, the need for preschool would have about 1000 children. From this, regular preschool education covers cca 800 children and results in the provision of a programme for about 200 children, meaning about 10 groups under this national pedagogical standard. And I'm not saying that that's not the problem, but not that much. In Rijeka, the biggest problem within each group has more children than is prescribed by this law, so they said that about 25% on average there are more children within the group, but in the Jasli groups it is a deviation and greater. And now the problem is that if those criminal provisions or fines go away, and that's not going to work out in a year. And there's one more question, the duration of that preschool program. According to some announcements, it should take about 550 hours, which would mean in one school pedagogical year on average 3 hours a day, but the data has not yet been defined. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45933	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45934	Thank you very much. My colleagues Cvetovic, so when I spoke about Rijeka, I meant the overall part, meaning the Jasl group and the preschool programmes. The fact is that the City of Rijeka has made swimming pools the most expensive in Europe, and perhaps in the world, as well as a hall and some other infrastructure facilities, however, there was not enough for kindergartens. And that's why over 500 kids now have no ability to institutionally take care of themselves, they don't even have the opportunity to go to preschool unless they're solved through some different form. That's what I'm talking about. And as for these hours and 550 hours of new curicula, it's your first-class captain. If you will 210 hours of Croatian language, 180 hours of mathematics, 35 hours of art, music or 70 hours of body, you will reach 550 hours. And these 170 were a lot given the curricula and the content they were learning because they can't learn to read, they can't learn to write and some other things, and there's a question of what we're going to learn for 550 hours. We want to walk around the river, on Rab or I don't know where or how much it's gonna cost. And the pedagogical standard is punished. It says very nicely here in the law what will be punished, so I told the minister to start writing fines to all directors and for one 70% of the witches.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45935	And the replica has Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45936	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Your Honor, you well mentioned a new obligation to put yourself before the local administration and self-government in terms of additional costs. However, the fact is that as much as this may seem to be a relatively small number of children so far not covered by the compulsory preschool programme, it often happens precisely in those environments that I dare say less and then imposing on them that they must finance it will represent a serious problem. However, even in those other environments where there is a preschool programme, the programme is now becoming much more demanding with a different curricula. That, of course, is not bad in itself, but it will pose a significant challenge. I'd say it's properly organized. However, what seems to me that unfortunately the same is missed in this text is the fact that the matter of performing the activity of the casino is actually not fully covered or regulated by the law. In fact, in the existing regulations there is no comprehensively defined concept of children's playroom and are not really certain types of playrooms according to the activities in them, according to the content they offer, capacity, equipment, the number of children they can receive, the need to employ a certain number of professionals etc. And that's why today we have different kinds of children's playgrounds with various facilities, but still unfortunately without the prescribed conditions in real, detailed terms regarding the appropriate and staff and standards of space and equipment and that's something that might have found a place in this law, and unfortunately it's not and I think the opportunity has been missed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45937	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45938	Well, that's exactly how fellow Reiner. We've been warning all morning that we've made changes without having any complete analysis of the system. She's got a minister and she's got it on her paper. No one's seen her. We've heard two different numbers that this applies to. The minister says one, 1500, on behalf of Mrs. Spoljar's club says 500, so they haven't even settled within the same political option. And what will only be in the curricula, which will only be in the rules, these are always the kind of accompanying acts that only then cause the storm. I just hope, here I remembered a cartoon from the time I went to kindergarten, that's the '70s, the end of the '70s last century, I remember when we first came to that preschool, and my aunt said, "Friends and comrades, hello, hello." It was a greeting, and we said, "Hello, hello, hello." I hope, given the way it is and everything that's going on in terms of ideology, that it won't become an integral part of the new curricula.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45939	My colleague Gordana Sobol, here's to the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45940	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with an associate. So I will base my discussion, i.e. on the proposed Article 3, that is, the new Article 1a, which defines what are the public powers of kindergarten and the tasks it performs. I called for the debate, prompted by a series of phone queries and memos that I received primarily from the Psychological Society, i.e. the Croatian Psychological Chamber, as well as the Faculty of Education and Rehabilitation and individual correspondence from professional associates in preschool education, i.e. kindergartens. It is also pedagogicals and psychologists, logos, defecologists, rehabilitators, which unfortunately after the regulation adopted in mid-2011 no longer had the opportunity to give professional opinions. Namely, this mid-2011 regulation on enrolment in school, and it is called the Regulation on the procedure for determining the mental state of the child, the student and the composition of the Explicate Expert Committee, does not provide for the opinion of kindergarten. However, there is one part of this Regulation that says that, in the case of a need for a professional commission, the opinion of experts of other specialities may also be requested and therefore the demands of different expert committees and parents for the opinion of psychologists and other professional kindergarten participants have also arisen. However, in February of last year, the ministry adopted clarifications related to the regulation under which children's kindergarten does not actually have the authority to give an opinion to the expert commission in the process of determining the mental state of the child, and these guidelines also refer to all written opinions, including centres for social care and specialised institutions, and to all opinions at the request of parents. Meanwhile, there was a public debate on this proposal, so the law that we have here today in front of us in a second reading, in which public authorities provided for giving, i.e. the issue of certificates and opinions by kindergartens which was well accepted, even more suggestions were given to highlight the role of preschool institutions in the educational process. Unfortunately, however, when the law arrived in the Croatian Parliament, it was omitted. I, in line with the opinions of the profession and the requests, have also made an amendment that I suggest that we, in fact, strengthen and clarify the public authority of kindergartens. On the one hand, this is how the Croatian Psychological Society, i.e. the Section, is a professional class for pre-school psychology of the Croatian Psychology Chamber, proposed to highlight, so that pre-school education is the first step in the entire system of education and education to complement Article 3 of the final proposal of the law, and that in the new proposed Article 1a. to add new subparagraphs in which, in one case, public authorities would include both the organisation and the implementation of educational work with children of early and preschool age, and the keeping of appropriate records, and the assessment of the child's development competences and keeping records of them. This is in some way analogous to what we have in the Law on primary and secondary education, i.e. in defining their public authority, and I really agree that this would highlight the importance of preschool education. The second part concerns the issue of issuing an opinion. Namely, regardless of what the regulation or interpretation of the ministry has been about, professional associates, childcare teams cannot give an opinion on anyone's request unless I am wrong at the request of the judicial authorities. I ask the Minister, the Ministry, to either adopt this amendment or return that possibility to this bill with its own amendment. Because after reading everything I have received it seems to me that there is primarily some kind of misunderstanding in terms of what professional opinion from kindergarten teams gives and that it is not in collage, that this does not mean diagnosis, that is, what falls under some kind of medical documentation, which is more so this whole time than that these opinions and social care centres and committee members who, or commissions that follow the enrolment of children in schools call kindergartens, professional associates, seek their opinion. What is said informally in fact is that, of course, they meet with children for the first time because this is how it turns out that experts in kindergartens follow, identify, create support programmes for children and parents, and it's all expensive in some kind of files, so without some to say useful values, and basically it doesn't benefit anyone. In fact, it hurts the parents primarily. And I repeat once again the issue of an opinion on the child's development status in terms of its development needs is different from the issue of a specialist opinion where the diagnosis is included along the way. And really, here it is, I'm asking it to be here if possible the way I suggested it through the amendments. On the one hand, what is most important is that this possibility of giving an opinion to competent institutions, and for the sake of the child's well-being, is that they return to law and that professional teams are really still doing the full purpose for which they are established. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45941	My colleagues and colleagues, may we now agree that we have another individual discussion to do before the break? Do you agree? Thank you very much. Here's your colleague, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45942	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Assembly for meeting, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. As in the first reading, so here is the second reading, we have heard quite a lot of remarks about the amendments and additions to this law. The aim of this legislative proposal is certainly to improve preschool education and education, and some today wondered whether this proposal and the amendments to the law touched on the fact that it was actually a better preschool education. You should ask the parents who say that we're not. 15 years ago, preschool education was arranged as part of a system of education and education, and every child in the Republic of Croatia has the right to be involved in such a programme. The problem is that preschool or preschool education is mandatory. And that pulls a series of things that can't be realized. No proposal for opposition, after the first reading, has been accepted, and we have warned of the inability to implement this law in municipalities and cities. Throughout today's debate, it is evident that MPs coming from local administrations and self-government, who actually know what they're talking about when they all point out that it will not be possible to provide funds for both the implementation of the programme and the transport of preschoolers with escorts. If we look at each law from a perspective of five or six major cities, then we make one big mistake over what we impose, or what is not feasible. You're Mr. Minister today I think on one or two occasions you told me that municipalities and cities that can't translate this should be abolished. However, I think you're wrong and I don't think you know the opportunities in Croatia well. And let me tell you this, for example, the Imotian provinces that have eight municipalities and the city of Imotsky itself, there are six kindergartens and one manger. This area is actually a space of over 700 km square that has about 450 settlements of which is almost or half of those settlements with an old population with one or two children. So how do you say we secure transport in these settlements? The decline in the population is alarming for both the Imot region and the islands and Sinjska or Vrlička krajina. This may have to be done, and this should have been taken into account through a strategy of demographic renewal. I could have mentioned some other areas to you, but for another time. If units of local self-government and provide transport to preschool children, it would be a big problem and it is technically inequitable because your carriers would not carry 2, 3 or 5 children from a higher distance. Why don't local self-government units have enough resources? So the budget revenues from these units of local self-government in the information I shared with our colleagues fell from 37 to 52%. Which is not small and is not inescapable if it is known that part of the decentralised assets goes 10% for material costs, and 30% of the decentralised assets go for capital investments. A large number of municipalities in the Split-Dalmatia County are in one specific position due to transportation, distance from the island, ferry lines, and this lack of funds that must also be given for the fire-fighting seasons, for kindergartens, preschool education, cultural heritage, the transport of students, student scholarships, support for births and others. Why is that? Well, obviously there's no economic growth, there's no investment, that tax policy just chokes investors and it's visible in all areas. And that's actually why there's no income tax that's actually the most important thing for these small municipalities. That's why Mr. Minister, I stick to what you said that mandatory preschool will be free of charge for all the kids who didn't go to kindergarten before and will be burdened by the state budget. Why? You're in violation of the constitutional provisions. This Regulation shall enter The Republic of Croatia says education is available in the Republic of Croatia under equal conditions in accordance with its abilities. Mandatory education is free of charge under the law. That's how it stands in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. If that is not the case, say that children do not have to go to preschool at the age of 6 or to school at 7 and that they can work freely in the field, not additionally burden municipalities and cities that can't conduct it objectively. I know you're going to vote this bill because of the parliamentary majority, but I assure you that in the month of September, you will have no peace because of the inability to implement these intentions of yours. They were alive and seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45943	Thank you. And the closing word of Minister Željko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45944	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, thank you to all the distinguished MPs and MPs for today's debate. There have been useful suggestions, there have been useful amendments, we will surely appreciate some of it, part of it won't. About two things we agreed, first of all, that early education and preschool education are essential for more quality entry into primary education and achievement of quality results in primary school and later secondary education. And secondly, the biggest dilemmas cause funding. So these are the two questions we agreed on. There have been various proposals, some of them will be respected through sublegal acts concerning the setting of elements and criteria for co-financing of pre-school programmes and I am convinced that pre-school will be prepared in cooperation with local self-government units to improve the overall education and education system in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45945	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. And now I'm setting a break until 3:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45946	Let's go forward. Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education, Second Reading, PZ No. 192. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments have been submitted, the special table is here, please the Minister of Honor, Željko Jovanovic, Minister of Science and Education, to be manifested according to the table. Let's get this straight. Honored representative Gordana Sobol and Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45947	The amendment by the representatives of Gordana Sobol shall be accepted in part in the following statement: In Article 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The word "confirmation" shall be deleted and words and opinions added.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45948	I'd like an honorary representative of the amendment to Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45949	Thank you. I also accept the amended amendment, although I think the other part has been accepted so that I can say it, give extra importance and express what the kindergarten actually is. But I accept it because it's essentially an amendment to what you've accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45950	You're pulling the rest?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45951	I take it back, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45952	Thank you very much. In part, it enters the final draft of the law. Amendment number 2 of the SDSS Representatives Club. Dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45953	Amendment number 2 of the SDSS Representatives Club, which reads: Programmes for children of members of national minorities shall be timed in a way that the programmes in the language and letter of the national minorities are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45954	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number three of the respected representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45955	Five amendments from 3 to 7, four Croatian MPs, one HDZ representative on Article 10, are usually the same, and they all refuse if we move in line. Therefore, the first amendment of Mr. Hrga is rejected because it is stated, as set out in Article 17 supplementing Article 48(4) of the Law, by a provision which prescribes that preschool programmes for parents are free of charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45956	Dear applicant for the Branko Hrg amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45957	Well, if that's the case, but given what we've had in the debate, it won't be free because part of the parents who have children in the senior year of preschool education will pay for the normal regular program in kindergartens, unless you have predicted that this final year in kindergartens will be free of charge. If that's the case, then it's okay, but if it's not, then I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45958	I made myself clear, so the law says the preschool program... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45959	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. He's asking for a vote. Please state the amendment number three of the respected representative of Branko Hrg, which the government does not accept. Who's in? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number four of the same representative, Your Honor. Same everything?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45960	Yes, it is rejected because the financing of pre-school education is in the responsibilities of the founder, so the means of transport should be provided by the founder.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45961	Thank you very much. Amendment holder Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45962	Well, I can't agree with that at all. I can't agree with that because if something is put on that it's mandatory and it's free, if it's brought from the state level, then it can't be pushed into the local self-government burden without any consent, we can say so and I don't think this is correct to local self-government and it's going to be very difficult or even impossible to implement. In the end, if this is a mandatory programme, if student transport is already organised, if student transport is financed from decentralised primary education functions, then it would be nice to ask that this part also be resolved with preschool education. That would be very correct and fair. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45963	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment to the 4th Honored Representative, Branko Hrg, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 5 of the HDZ Representatives Club. Dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45964	Amendment No 5 of the HDZ Representatives Club is identical to the previous amendment, so according to the Preschool Education and Education Finance Act, the founder and means of transport as well as the Founder provides for pupils of primary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45965	On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45966	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister. As my colleague Hrg said, I'm sorry you didn't accept this amendment because it was really the protection of the local self-government units. At this time when units of local self-government barely maintain their budget commitments to the public needs programme, we impose another obligation on them, so the government imposes an obligation on them by introducing a compulsory preschool for all children, I repeat for all children who are one year before going to school against which we have nothing, but we do not mind that if we have made a commitment to something then we must also provide financial resources. It will be difficult for those units of local self-government, cities and municipalities in those small environments that barely survive anyway. We've imposed a lot on them, a lot of government commitments but it doesn't provide funds. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45967	Please state the amendment number 5 of the HDZ Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 6 of the respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45968	It is the same text, the same proposal and it is rejected for the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45969	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45970	Here's a little bit of a reference to that little old explanation. So it is true that the founder is taking over the funding, but it is also true that school founders finance that part of the programme from decentralised funds coming down from the state level to local self-government. And I really don't see any reason not to introduce this program, too, and to fund it the same way. Indeed, in these few days, there have been a lot of laws passed in this House that go on burden and to the harm of local self-government. This is just one of them. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45971	I would like to make a statement on amendment number six of the respected representative of Branko Hrg, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment number seven of respected representatives of Branko Hrg, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45972	This is the last amendment to Article 10 which is not accepted for the same reason, and I stress that since this year, only 46,000 students were not included in preschool programmes, and we believe that this will not be a more significant burden on local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45973	Dear applicant for the Branko Hrg amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45974	Well, I'm just looking for an honest relationship, Mr. Minister. So, if the employees of the compulsory programme are in primary and secondary education at the salary of the state budget, if this law addresses the issue of compulsory taking place the year before the first grade of primary school for pre-school education, then I ask that the funds for employees in that year be provided in the state budget as for other compulsory forms of education and education be provided. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45975	Please state the amendment to the number seven respected representative of Branko Hrg, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number eight, respected representatives Josip Salapic, Bora Grubisic and Igor Cešek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45976	The amendment shall not be accepted because it is in accordance with Article 3. Rules on the type of professional training, professional staff, and the type and degree of professional training of other children's kindergarten workers, the rehabilitator may work as an expert associate in kindergarten, and physiotherapists may work in kindergartens and other legal persons implementing programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45977	On behalf of the applicant, honourable representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45978	Thank you, Mr. President. We thought in front of the club that including these professional associates would be necessary for the development of the child, so we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45979	Please state the amendment number of the 8th group of MPs. Who's the government doesn't accept? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number nine of Honored Representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45980	An amendment from Mr. Mladen Novak, who regulates who can't work in kindergarten and is about eradicating words in the family. So it expands all those involved in violence in any segment of society can't work in kindergarten, so the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45981	Sustained. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 10 of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45982	This amendment shall not be accepted for the simple reason that, in accordance with this law, the financing of pre-school education is within the authority of the founders and it is said that part of the funds will be provided under the Regulation on specific conditions and criteria for the implementation of the pre-school education programme from the funds of the national budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45983	On behalf of the applicant, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45984	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Minister, you're already refusing that amendment in fact to refuse this amendment. But I want to do it again again. The fact is that units of local self-government are competent to organise pre-school education and funding. But now we've had the law to fund preschools from the state budget through the Public Needs Programme in preschool education, and now you'll only provide a fraction of the funding. I think it is not fair to those small units of local self-government, according to those cities and municipalities that will not be able to provide funds for the implementation of preschool programmes, which means that all children in the Republic of Croatia will not be equal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45985	Are you asking for a vote? Please state the amendment number of the ten HDZ Representatives Clubs that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. And finally Amendment number eleven of the Committee on Legislatives, Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45986	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Legislative Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45987	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? What's the score? I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 8 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Preschool Education and Education, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. We're going to the next law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45988	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work after the break. We move to item 2 of the agenda, that is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, second reading, P.Z. No. 270 Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Science, Education and Sports Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45989	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Allow me a few introductory words about this law that is extremely important to us. At first, I would like to begin by thanking everyone who participated in the public debate before the first reading, who made their contribution during the first reading at the meetings of the Assembly Committee and for all the comments they had made to us by wanting to make this law even better. And I think even though I'm personally sorry that it's been so long that this version that's really much better in front of you today than the original one, and so thank you very much to everyone who has contributed. At the moment that we have become a full member of the EU, our system of science and higher education is marked by challenges and an inherited unsatisfactory level as some of the key indicators of this system. That is why we keep saying that if we want to solve the problems that exist today in the system of higher education and science, we must also think and do things differently than when these problems were created. Like most transition countries in Central and Eastern Europe, Croatia faced exciting new opportunities by joining the EU. One of these options is a much stronger integration into the European research and European space of higher education, but what we need to understand is that all activities of Croatian science and education will be much more compared than the other 27 Member States. It is in this direction that the proposals for these amendments and the additions that create further preconditions for building a highly educated, scientific, public-oriented innovation system, to the needs of society as a whole, with a particular emphasis on increasing the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia at international level and adapting to the obligations arising from our full membership in the EU. All several notes that change in these amendments and additions that I consider important to highlight, which is that the draft of this bill creates preconditions for the implementation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's measures in the 2011-2015 programme and in the strategic guidelines that the ministry adopted in March last year. I would like to point out once again that these amendments and amendments should not be linked in any way to the Strategy for the Development of Education, Education, Science and Technology whose proposal is in the debate and I believe that we will have a full debate on this strategy by the end of this year. These amendments and additions determine the competence and structure of the new National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development to take over some of the previous commitments of the National Council for Science, the National Council for Education and the Council for the National Innovation System, thereby obtaining the possibility of far-reaching strategic action. A clear selection procedure for scientific and scientific educational professions, scientific and scientific teaching posts is prescribed with a view to verifying the fulfilment of minimum national criteria and additional criteria for job institutions. The law abolishes the obligation to advance in workplaces and enables scientists and university teachers to choose career development according to their preferences and needs of institutions. The draft law separates the associate posts of assistants and consequents and introduces an additional selection for the consequents by prescribing public competition obligations. Co-operational jobs are linked to staff needs and plans of institutions for scientific research and competitive scientific projects. In the draft final draft law, a more explicit way to finance public scientific institutes and universities is possible by introducing a contract system. Contracts are scheduled to regulate several years of stable dedicated financing of part of the activity, public scientific institutes and universities. I am pleased to say that a week ago we signed a contract with all 25 public institutes, and we are preparing a signature with all universities and we have agreed with all the remaining controversial details with the University of Zagreb and thus contribute to further strengthening scientific activities in our universities. And I don't have to remind myself that it's been a year since we signed high-school funding contracts through scholarships and secured peace in the three-year period during which these contracts are worth it. What should be pointed out in particular and what was really surprising, which is that in the current legal system, the minister does not have any power to adopt regulations regulating the student standard. In view of the need to monitor the fiscal effects of the Law and to plan budgetary expenditure in this way, the Minister shall be given this possibility. And the point is to better address the system of student standards and prevent the accumulation of losses of student centres that currently occurred from the lack of certain sublegal acts that should have been practically passed since 2003 when this Law was passed. Two types of postgraduate and three types of professional studies are clearly defined. This distinction in the type of study in practice exists in the Republic of Croatia since the current Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education was adopted. However, the current legal text left a few of the misunderstandings that we are dealing with in this way. We define more clearly the obligation of higher universities to keep records and databases and define the management of national databases. Finally, we will have credible data based on which we will be able to make strategic decisions in the future regarding the development of higher education and science. The draft law strengthens the roles and powers of the Committee on Ethics in science and higher education to raise professional responsibility and reputation of the Croatian scientific community in the country and abroad because it is obvious that all indices that have occurred in recent years have not produced enough preventive effect so that such affairs in a small part of the academic community would not occur because of this small part of the wicked people suffering the entire academic community. What was disputed over the past period concerned and paid by the Rector and the Rector of the University. According to the old rules, they were officials. Since they are no longer officials, it was necessary to amend the legal text in order to ensure a salary which, if followed by the Public Service Payments Act, would be defined by the ceiling of the public service salary coefficient of 3.5. Which, of course, would lead to the rector's pay being completely insanely low. And that's why we're proposing to secure the salaries of the Rector and the university's proctor. All the few sentences about what we have accepted on the basis of all the discussions that have taken place and what has significantly improved the text of this Law. The comments of the IDS Representatives Club were accepted that the report on the work of scientists at the scientific position of a scientific associate, senior scientific associate and scientific advisor should form a committee consisting of at least 3 members. The same observation refers to the submission of the report on the work of the High School Professional Council for persons in the scientific, artistic and educational, teaching and professional workplace. It is also accepted that the representatives of the Iron Flegga are invited to carry out those procedures in the form of re-election in the same title or place of work. The proposal was also accepted by distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić, who indicated the need to keep records of students with disabilities. The proposer fully accepted the proposals of the Arts Academys and the Ministry of Culture to establish the equivalence of scientific and scientific and teaching professions, appropriate procedures in artistic and teaching titles and procedures in the proposal of the Law. We also accepted the comment of the Institute for Development and Education, which was presented at the the thematic session of the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture, on the subject of the Law, and that the National Council for Higher Education and Technological Development encourages the participation of civil society organisations in the system of science and higher education. At the initiative of the Ministry of Administration, therefore, we have introduced a new provision concerning the Regulation on names and jobs, the coefficients of the complexity of public service jobs. At the initiative of the public universities, a further article of the Law proposal to regulate the issues of joint joint studies and cross-border cooperation studies has been corrected. The promotion of the Agency for Science and Higher Education, as well as the higher universities in the Proposal for the Law, also addresses the issues of short-term knowledge acquisitions and their guidance. The transitional provisions specify the way active members of the National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education work until the start of the new National Council for Science and Higher Education and Technological Development, which I expect to be adopted and voted in the first autumn session of the Parliament. The transitional and final provisions state more precisely the provisions on the validity of so far's calls and the choice to call on posts according to the provisions of the applicable Law. This Law therefore has nothing to do with the discussions concerning the rules of the elections. But we believe that the new National Council, which will begin to work, hopefully in October, can make things right in a way that has caused public dilemmas about the rules that have been passed by the current National Council. And what's especially important is that we didn't accept, one segment I'll single out, and that's the part about the debate on the abolition of the job promotion obligation. We analyzed the comparatively 27 most developed countries, found that even 23 of them do not have an obligation to advance. At the session, a regular session of the Assembly Committee on Science, Education and Culture, several amendments were made. We have accepted three of the 5 amendments offered because we believe that they solve this text in a better way. So, those amendments concerning progress and deadlines in progress, we accepted that amendment. We also replaced the part about every 4 that's possible every 5 years. And the amendment, which, after being 65 years old, stated in our proposal that it was 12 months, has now been accepted by the Assembly Committee's proposal to extend this period to two-year mandates. Therefore, all of this you have ahead of you is in fact the efforts of the Ministry of Science and Education and Sport to implement a system of higher education and science through concepts of responsibility, public responsibility, transparency with clear and consistent criteria, competence, efficiency, quality, focus on priorities, politic development of Croatia, social dimension, social inclusion of education and science, and internationalisation and mobility. Finally, I can tell you that in the past month in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, various contracts have been signed in the system of education totalling 55m euros. And that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in this year is the most successful in withdrawing funds from various European funds, which shows the right direction of our ministry's work. What remains to be pointed out has begun with the work of the Croatian Foundation for Science. This year, 50 million kuna is secured, we expect the tender to be opened on 1 October and that, annually, with projects to be financed from the foundation system, we also provide 250 places for recruits, which would be about 1250 places in the five-year period, which is just as much as we consider the Croatian system of science to be necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45990	Thank you. First, we'll hear the replica of House Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45991	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you have, of course, shown in a pink light this final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, but I would refer to myself for two moments that you mentioned. One is exactly the last one. In fact, it is not clear from the bill whether all science will be financed through the foundation in the future, or whether it will be financed by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. However, this is not evident from this bill at all, and I think it is one of the key issues and that it should absolutely be clear to everyone from the bill, but I have to admit it is not clear to me, and it is not clear to most of whom I have talked about it. Another very important thing that you have called for, which is also written in an explanation, which is, in a negative context, too high scientific knowledge, that is, part of the scientists in the highest call of a scientific advisor with 39%. However, it is not evident from this explanation of what these elections were in a particular calling, how it should look like a ratio that would be acceptable, for let's just say at some of the world's best universities, there are basically just such titles. And of course, criticizing the structure of jobs can exist and there is a reason not to encourage productivity and involvement of researchers, but if the condition for progress is suspended is that by slowing down or... actually formal criteria and bringing down non-formal criteria, or on a mere duration will actually further detimise the entire system without introducing any qualitative criteria and it seems to me that this is an important problem to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45992	Minister Jovanovic answers the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45993	I thank the distinguished academics and vice president of the Parliament. So it's clear that, I don't understand how you didn't realize that funding science would actually go can be said from four sources. One is the Croatian Foundation for Science for Competative Projects where 50 million kuna is provided this year, the next 150 million kuna, the second is a system of multi-annual contracts on the purposeal financing of scientific activities that we have already signed with the institutes, and I hope for the next week or two with all universities. The third remaining budget is intended to fund universities and the fourth is European funds, so these are the funds that will enable the financing of scientific activities in Croatia. As for this part whether or not compulsory progress, the comparative analysis of 27 European countries, of which 23 of them are most successful, shows that we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45994	Another replica, the esteemed Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45995	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said this law is an improvement in scientific activity and higher education. Well, there's only one example I'd like to point out that's not exactly in favor of that claim and the thesis. If we are in the existing law and you have talked about the council and the composition of the National Council, if we have had a special National Council for Science, and especially the National Council for Higher Education, this proposal calls itself the National Council. It covers the same National Council and Higher Education and Scientific Activity. Higher education and scientific activities are so different and separate things. That is why you were even forced to delete Article 2 of Article 11, where so far it has been spoken and determined that members of the National Council for Science must be top scientists, and now two people from the economy and two people from entrepreneurship into the National Council for Scientific Activity enter the National Council. What does the National Council have to do with the scientific activity for entrepreneurship and, of course, that entrepreneurship and the economy should have an impact on higher education, but not on scientific activity. You are talking about the needs of society and the needs of society have not been established at all. To educate and study for the needs of the labour market, for the deficiting professions you state here. I ask you what is the deficit profession in Croatia, and for which there is a need for schooling in Croatia, whatever place that job is waiting for when someone finishes something. We just multiply new studies, multiply and see that this goes to private universities in favor. That's why this isn't a step back. It's a step back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45996	Minister Jovanovic answers the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45997	Thank you, Dr. Maric. In your debate, you were in fact very contradictory, and in one part you gave an answer why we need such a National Council, which will have representatives of higher education and science and economy in order to ensure our system has a far stronger link between higher education, science, economy, technology transfer, training for jobs that will be needed by the economy and Croatian society. This is the goal and therefore this law is a qualitative step in relation to the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45998	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u45999	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. At the beginning of my clear statement, the HDZ Club will not support the adoption of this law and we are truly sorry that the Government and Ministry of Science, Education and Sports as legislators of this law nor after a number of very serious ones, I would say the key remarks which were made in connection with the version of the law from the first reading, particularly by universities, universities, scientific institutions, and during the debate in the Assembly, have not included any of these remarks in the first reading. Proposers have also completely ignored the very critical intensities of representatives of the academic community and almost all the remarks made at the the thematic session of the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture, where the significant majority of speakers were negatively reflected in the proposed bill. Although during the public debate on this law, everyone stressed their desire for the system of science and education to function better and stressed their expectations of a new law to ensure the solution to the many problems that this system has been plagued for a long time. The promoter did not offer a new law offering solutions to these problems. We have before us a proposal to amend the law, so not a new law, but a proposal to amend the existing ones, although the proposal has as much as 71 articles and only 121 basic laws. Unfortunately, however, this proposal does not offer any real solutions to the problems that objectively exist in science and higher education, but rather raises some new issues and has already caused numerous criticisms and recommendations in the form of first reading. All of this, however, was ignored by the promoter, and he was not disturbed by the fact that despite all the well-intentioned suggestions, he continues to push his proposal. Because of all this, of course, our remarks will be very similar to those that we discussed at the first reading of the law, because this version that we now have in the second reading is unfortunately in those essential provisions, which were most criticised is not different from the one in the first reading. However, in this final draft of the law, there were suddenly certain provisions that were not even mentioned or discussed on the occasion of the first reading, nor in the public debate. This seriously raises the question regarding the real intentions of the proposer. The word transparency in this is not to be mentioned at all. Although it's been about a year and a half in the past, when the first version of this law appeared in April 2012 in a series of occasions and in a number of participants from the academic community to representatives of the opposition, as well as prominent representatives of the ruling coalition of prominent SDP members, a clearly articulated and reasoned request which we also supported to first adopt the Strategy for the Development of Science and Education in Croatia, and only afterwards did the law refuse to do so without any reasoned arguments. We, but so do many others, believe that the strategy is a necessary and crucial prerequisite for the adoption of a legal framework in the field of science and education. The team is weirder on all these requirements, a completely insensitive attitude that is persistently reflected in this push and in the second reading of the bill, although there is no strategy yet. Since it is not known at all, so what this strategy will look like we are asking by not knowing what time the question is what will happen if the strategy determines some other direction towards development of science and education rather than what this bill sets out. Each strategy, namely, determines the direction of development and defines the first vision, and then this vision with the help of the new laws tries to be realized because the law is really just a tool that needs to be seen. If there is no vision, and at this hour it is obvious that there is no question of what will be achieved by this law. It is clear, unfortunately, that it will happen again as many times over the last year and a half to make hastily, recklessly and needlessly a law that must then be changed in a few months. I would like to make it clear that we are all aware of this every time, while the ruling majority of parliamentary deputies, in such actions, sends a message to the citizens who have chosen them that this House is unserious, and that the unserious state that has made such laws hastily passed, and when it is shown how wrong they are quickly changing them again. In fact, it is quite certain that if this or any other bill is passed before the strategy and this time it will have to happen and that this law will have to be amended by the end of the year at the latest, that it is certain that a new law will have to be passed. This will also have to be done because the government's annual plan of normative activities for this year provides for a completely new legislative framework for the science and higher education system to be referred to the procedure in the fourth quarter of this year as published in the National Journal of No. 145/12. Then why violently push these changes to the law instead of waiting for those few months. As a result of this, the HDZ Club also proposed that the bill be stopped, not to go further into the process, or into another reading, rather than to wait for those few months, so based on the strategy that we will then have, it will go into making a whole new law that will allow for the achievement of all that the strategy draws and serious fundamental changes that would lead to the improvement of the system of science and higher education. We hoped that this proposal, which had nothing to do with any politics, would only be accepted by common sense by the SDP, will be led by the majority, and that this time only because it has most hands in the Assembly will forcely vote this proposal. Unfortunately, however, we now see that the ruling majority's representatives will certainly raise their hands on Friday for this law as they did for a number of other laws that later proved to be completely missed. But we believe that it is a moral obligation for us to tell all and you fellow parliamentary representatives of the Kukuriku coalition, and most of all to Croatian citizens what the adoption of this law will cause. This bill will require extensive changes in the general acts of universities and their constituents, the university, which will then almost certainly have to be changed again in a few months. If any of the promoters are wondering how much it will cost and whether it should be especially in this financial situation where we are and think about it. However, speaking of funding, the funding system has been proposed is completely inconclusive and unclear, and just enough funding and unregulated funding is today one of the far-reaching problems of the Croatian system of science and higher education. This final bill does not, unfortunately, contribute to strengthening the model of full funding for science and education, not for universities. He does not introduce a model of software contracts based on the so-called so-called ". LAMSAM which was agreed after years of negotiations and which would be the necessary financial framework to monitor the upcoming necessary structural changes at Croatian universities. On the contrary, we are witnessing that the ministry imposes the practice of partial programming contracts offered in principle, so you will have any funding or do not take anything, so you will not have anything, and these partial programming contracts should not be called programming contracts at all because they only further segment existing sources of funding, i.e. by their nature and unique activities of scientific research and higher education, in fact, this activity is further partialized. At the same time, institutions, such pseudo-programme contracts, offer a drastically smaller means of seeking at the same time absurdly to increase the quality of scientific publications and higher education. Why do I say pseudo programming contracts? Because real programming contracts would mean providing total funding for a programme that the institution implements, which includes everything from money for wages, material costs, to funds for scientific research that the institution then has autonomously available, but clearly knows what it is responsible for and what it needs to be delivered for. Unfortunately, we're light-years away from it. They are particularly concerned by the provisions of the draft law on the possibility of financing parts of public university activities in accordance with specific contracts, and without clear legislative provisions on the negotiation procedure, on the subject of financing and other elements of the contract, which all points to further violations of university autonomy when it comes to universities. In fact, the lack of systematic and transparently resolved funding will make public higher education politically dependent because partial calls for programming contracts will be a kind of instrument for manipulating universities and public education. On the extent to which the university’s autonomy is to be compromised, it is best to state the provision of Article 25. It is one of those articles that suddenly appeared beyond public debates in the second reading, which says that from now on, the government, of course, will determine the salaries of the Rector and the procurator of public universities. It is done under a transparent pretext that their wages would otherwise fall, but in such a constitution when the government determines their wages then let them try these rectors, boredom out of control, anything to say against the authorities, ministers, God forbid you ask for more money for science and higher education. That it is a clear desire for political full control of the system of science and higher education and to be fully controlled by party staffing from the ministry is clear from several other provisions. For example, in accordance with Article 28 of the Dean of the University and of the High Schools, he will choose and resolve the Administrative Council – read the Minister because he, on his proposal, will be appointed, and because in the Governing Council, most of the members are appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Minister. Therefore, politics will decide, not as so far, the professions, or teachers, co-workers and students. Similarly, the direct subjugation of the Government and the open etatisation of higher education will be brought together and, in line with this bill, the newly established National Council for Higher Education and Technological Development established. Namely, the existing National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education will be abolished in order to select members of the new Council, in accordance with Article 65 of the Political Similarity criterion, four of them. And according to the article found in the transitional provisions, that's all it says is how much weight it is, as well as members of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education to propose to the Government, read again the minister. We have witnessed such tactics many times over the last year and a half, but it is a pity that this will happen in a system of science and higher education that should indeed be above the direct influence of party policy. So there won't even be that game for a naive regiment calling candidates for talks and similar to what happened in the election for some other body who named this Parliament, even though it was precisely in the media who was going to be elected. Right about science and higher education, it looks like there won't be any such cover at all right now. It will all be very visiblely appointed politically. That this proposal leaves some more than important issues left for sublegal acts, which will then, without control and the possibility of public influence, bring about a personal minister, about the fact that during the night the obligation of scientists to advance in scientific teaching and many other unfortunate solutions in this bill will surely be lifted by others. I would conclude only with a clear warning that the ruling, again by force of most hands, would vote on a law that was passed without the proper dialogue of the Government and institutions in the field of science and higher education to which the law would apply, because their word did not want to be heard, which was conceptually missed in many parts in an unequivocal and poorly formulated, full of contradictory arguments without any projection of the effects that this law would cause, and in fact, inadmissiblely low nomotechnical quality, so that certain results of its application would be appropriate. Instead of the improvements we all expected will cause serious damage to the current system of science and higher education, and therefore the HDZ club will certainly be against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46000	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas that are exactly 6. First, it will be replicated by the esteemed Walter Boluncic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46001	Thank you. Well, my point of view is almost the opposite so I wouldn't go to all the points but maybe just one point. The impression is that the whole public was against this law. This is not so, however, because we have a whole series of letters of support from prominent scientists with the reputation of international who are for change and for this law. So we need to stress that the important scientists are for the changes and for the changes made by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46002	Replication response, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46003	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Well, the Honorable Representative Boluncic is right, there's a letter signed by a series of scientists who talk with amazement about this law. But you forgot to say that there's about this kind of a bunch of letters from different institutions, institutions, institutes, universities, colleges that are very critical of this law. Therefore, and you also remember well when she was a meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sports which was open and we just wanted to get some insight into what the academic community thinks about it, that the vast majority of speakers in this matter have critically expressed themselves on this law. So everything I said is still standing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46004	Now it will be replicated by the respected Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46005	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Reiner, I've written down countless things here, but I'm really going to have to look back on some of your statements as my colleague Boluncic. I'm not really gonna say that about the strategy anymore, but you said this was an unserious Parliament and state, and that we were going to vote by force, that there was no dialogue. I will remind you that if this House is unserious that the former assembly of parliament has changed this law seven times in two terms, is that unserious. Secondly, if it hadn't been for dialogue, it was completely incorrect. This law has been in public debate since April 2012. You mentioned further software contracts, and I must remind you, Mr. Rainer, that unlike the former governments who only talked about it in scholarships and part of the scientific activity, this government has already dealt with it this way. Also, in an economic programme headed towards the EU, the government envisioned growth for science to 0.75 per cent, while your government managed to reduce it from 1.1 to 0.75 per cent. So much for credibility, so much for your government, so much for HDZ's good intentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46006	The reply to the replica and Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46007	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Your Honor, of course, when there are no arguments, then he always goes back to the past and says you're like that, you've been awful to him. Let's see in a row. You know very well what software contracts are, what is offered to institutes, and now the universities have absolutely nothing to do with program contracts. In my presentation, I made it very clear that those who are not so much more ordinary are not so close to academic circles among our colleagues, precisely what these are program contracts. You know that well just pretend you don't know that because software contracts are not the financing of recruits or the financing of one segment, the program contract is the financing of the entire programme within which the institution determines its priorities and, of course, corresponds to because it received money. What's done now has nothing to do with programming contracts. So let's not talk about it, and I agree with you that the percentage of scientific separation is very low, because it's planned to be bigger, I don't know if it's going to happen. Then we'll be able to talk about what that percentage was. So far, I'm not seeing any significant increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46008	The respected Goran Maric will replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46009	You were talking to your colleague Reiner about inconclusiveness in the process. So if this proposal for a law on scientific activity and higher education of the law that directs and determines Croatia's future, it calls on the parent board to meet tomorrow morning at 8.45 p.m. already enough to discuss how to approach this bill. That there is no strategy we are all witnessing, and that the strategy should be preceded by such an important law certainly yes. However, there is no analysis of the existing situation or the main problems in scientific activity and higher education have been detected. It's just that in 10 years, we've increased students 70 grand to 195, that we've come from 400 study programs to 1200 study programs, and what's the effect of that and the negative effect of that is not a word. Such an important area must not be regulated by amendments to the permanent law. You're right when you say you need a new law, but you need a new Act on Scientific Activity, especially a new Law on Higher Education. So let's put together here a point of the first one to go today to be a law on higher education, preschool education, and put everything in the same law. It takes a qualitative division of these two problems and the adoption of specific laws because if we have not noticed that the institutes are not to the proper extent of social function, and they are financed by the state budget, and they have almost nothing to give to this society, why they do not work for the Government and do not charge for them, but should do so badly, and this law is not regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46010	The replica matches Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46011	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Honorable colleague, Mr. Maric, so there is that problem that I highlighted, which is that we expected to address in a sustainable and transparent way the fundamental problem of funding and of course we expected it to be financing programmes and public universities of public scientific institutes. We now have a situation to introduce two parallel systems of funding science and higher education. So with the existing system of financing or funding from the total amount, we also have funding through these partial programming contracts, where no relevant elements of the programming contracts are actually defined and under what conditions will be applied, which system, with which consequences. And that's where I agree with you. Unfortunately, there is no serious model and no serious insight into what will happen as a result. The introduction of partial software contracts without a transparent and complete framework, those real, whole, software contracts actually bring the funding system into one uncertainty but obviously it is wanted and achieved because when everyone is insecure then it is easier to manipulate and manage them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46012	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46013	Dear colleague Reiner, it's hard to argue that the truth is only on one side. It is certain that this Law has been shared by the public and that academic public, he has shared scientists. He has for the scientist and for and against this Law, there are educators who are for and against this, this Law. As unpopular as it is to go back to the past, but it should be reminded that the HDZ government has just advertised this country as a land of knowledge and you know that we have turned out to be a land of great ignorance and a government of great ignorance that didn't even know what was going on in its own ranks. So I wouldn't dare say so categorically. The public debate about this law was. That's a fact, now the question is whether there was a dialogue or there was no dialogue, that's another question. I just think it was that system... that the dialogue on either side is not as much as I have and I understand on the board that I have accepted the arguments of the opposite party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I fully agree with you that the Strategy should be first developed and then the Law on Education and Science. Those of us who demand it and in other areas are probably vehemently vehemently repeating the same logical request. Only on the basis of, meaning visions, based only on a programme, can only be made entirely logically by far better and much better laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46014	The replica matches the vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46015	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear fellow MP, you have agreed with me that a strategy is needed and I think there was no distinction between different stakeholders except the promoters. Only the promoter has always refused to work first in the Strategy. I said, I didn't say there was no dialogue, I said there was no real dialogue. Because it's not a real dialogue when one side says something and the other doesn't want to hear it. And he doesn't want to implement any of it. That's why I said there was no real dialogue. Of course, there have been conversations, and there have been a lot of conversations, and there have been a lot of changes in the memos of such, such, suggestions, but the question is that someone wants to hear it too or does not want to hear it. However, what is very important and what you mentioned is the question of whether our science is really as terrible as it tries to show itself. I'm saying it's not. And in fact, the data shows that some areas of science are actually completely comparable to leading European countries, especially physics and astronomy. Let them, however, lag behind. It's lagging behind, let's say, objectively, probably the most in the social humanist field. However, this results from a long-standing isolation from the international scientific community and as a result of insufficient investment and real stimulation of these researches. If it was done, I'm convinced that competition would increase, too. But you can't even see it from this bill. And unfortunately, the rule that we will not discuss today, of course, but which is disastrous right here, and science in some way further penalizes and suppresses and, of course, they will certainly not be competitive at European level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46016	Next replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46017	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow academicist Reiner, I've listened very carefully to your debate, and I can finally say that I'm just confused, or I'd like you to explain some things to me. In fact, at the beginning of your debate, you speak of this or you honor this government to get us into the Amendments and Supplements of this Law, that it is necessary to pass a new law that would fully regulate relations in a scientific and highly educated field. However, you continue to say that it is necessary first to adopt a strategy in order to pass the Law. Well, that's exactly what I want to point you at. Amendments and additions to the Law are because the strategy has not been adopted. I hope that in the near future we will have a strategy and that we will then approach after a wider public debate on the fundamental amendment of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. In my opinion, these changes and additions only solve some of the burning problems that have been detected in high education and scientific activities that need to be regulated urgently. And it's not only necessary to regulate this law, but we have a whole series of other acts that this House has to bring in to bridge this one, so if we're talking about ten months, it's a relatively long period to bridge this period. You said there was no dialogue, the dialogue lasted a year, in many of them I personally participated. So I don't see what the problem is. Finally, at the end of your debate, you speak or prejudge what the Law should contain. So I also want to ask you if you know anything more than we will be in the strategy or not. If you honor us with party discipline, then I can honor you with joint discipline or whether it's a community, and when we talk about your party in whose name you spoke, it has some effect on the adoption of a strategy that you said politics should not have an impact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46018	The replica matches Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46019	Thank you very much. So here's why I already told my esteemed colleague first, and now I'm going to tell you again, obviously you didn't hear or listen when I was talking, I'm repeating there was no real dialogue, there was dialogue, of course there was a general conversation, but the real dialogue in the sense that one side didn't hear what the other one was saying was really not. Of course, I'm still standing in a position like many others that should have first adopted a strategy, and then passed a real new law. Amendments and additions to the law should eventually be passed if something has now happened extraordinaryly, which could solve these changes. There is no reason for haste and that several months before some changes were made that would save something and something important to fix. And this scope of these changes far exceeds only small corrections and technical corrections that we would probably all agree with if we were to be reasoned and really needed. However, I argue that there was no need, I argue that absolutely nothing would have happened if it had waited a few months until a strategy was made and then a final bill of law was made that would have fit all of us. And the proposals I've made, you'll allow, so I guess I have the right to make some suggestions and some visions that will or will not be incorporated into the strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46020	And the last replica, colleague Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46021	Your Honorary Vice President, just one part of your presentation, or Article 25, which in some ways opposes and opposes this provision to pay for the Rector and the Rector, determines by a special decision of the Government. My question to you, who should do this to you and how to determine. Namely, by February 2nd, 2007 rectors and proctors were state officials. On their initiative to ensure their political independence, the HDZ government then proposed to the parliament that they be deleted from the list of state officials and were deleted and transferred to the category of civil servants, as everyone else did. For all other public officials, deans, hospital directors, teachers, social workers employed in the state administration, salaries shall be determined by the Government's Rules of Procedure. The Public Service Payments Act found that the highest coefficient could be 3.5 for all others. If we follow consistently, then they go without a specific decision, their salary could be the highest with a 3.5 coefficient. This allows them to get paid in accordance with the position they have and is actually the only possible way. My question to you is who and how should you determine the pay of the rector when you already disagree with this proposal, and especially regarding... that a proposal has just come from HDZ to delete them from the list of officials and enter the category of public officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46022	And this last line matches Vice President Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46023	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Lugaric, part of what I was saying is that what you know about what you've been talking about for three or more years, which is therefore software contracts. If the financing of scientific and scientific and educational institutions was resolved by software contracts, then it would be completely irrelevant because all wages would be within that system, all costs would be settled autonomously within the programme contract and it would not matter if someone had received such or such a salary. You should deliver the product, the kind of product we want, which is determined by the program contract, and then it would actually be all solved. Of course, since this has not been solved there is still a problem, this problem exists and now, it existed two months ago, it existed six months ago, as it suddenly becomes burning, and six months ago it was not burning. And I repeat, everything could be solved if the concept of software contracts had really been made, which, for those reasons that I had already said in my presentation, had not been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46024	The word is now being reported by Minister of Science, Education and Sports Zeljko Jovanovic, who speaks on behalf of the proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46025	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. I won't answer after every club, there's no need, but I feel the need to say just a few important facts about this debate that's been brought up by the HDZ Club. So I remind you of my first performance in this assembly and what I have kept repeating since day one. The Croatian Government adopted a programme of the Croatian Government in 2011-2015 and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports adopted strategic guidelines for the work in 2011-2015. Based on these acts, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has brought its work plan in which it has said it will move towards changes to all the laws of educational verticals, from preschool, through primary and secondary schools, sports and the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education in order to bring in the necessary changes to make the system better, more efficient, more transparent and fairer. At the same time, the Minister and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, together with the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, developed strategic guidelines for developing a strategy for development of education, education, science and technology. So we've set that path, we've told the Ministry that we're going to change all the laws and work the strategy. Therefore, the amendments to the laws we propose are not related to the strategy. After a strategy that will be adopted, I hope at the latest in January 2014 by consensus because we do so, we have agreed on expert teams that work, going into broad dialogue to get a strategy that will be adopted by consensus. Afterwards, the creation of a completely new legislative regulatory, completely different solutions that will be in place from 2015 onward. Until then, the situation had to be settled, and that's why all these legal proposals that are before you and that are in no way contrary to the strategy that's being developed, I personally participate in it, I have every version that's been made and I know what I'm saying. The insinuation that it's some kind of party surveillance is sad and embarrassing. Dear MPs and MPs, in the history of the Croatian academic community, never more autonomy was as university as it would be by now. For the first time, the minister is dissipating and is moving to manage any part of the academic community's autonomy, but is also asking for supervision. We give full autonomy to the community, demand responsibility, and conduct surveillance. I responsibly claim from this place never in the history of the Croatian University the academic community was more independent, autonomous, but we are also looking for responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46026	You called each other too late. Club IDS and respected representative Valter Bolunčić. ... My friend, I don't need a session assistant like this. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I have a professional service here. Call me when the speaker starts talking and you will, and now I'm giving Walter Boluncic my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46027	Good afternoon, Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Minister, Assistant Minister, Honorable Representatives and MPs. The IDS Club and Independent Representative Furi Radina will support the adoption of this law. I think the law is good and in fact the only remark I have on this law that it could have been passed maybe a year ago when the first reading came and I think it went in this direction that some of the events that were later created could be solved as well as the National Council's assembly and some other things that are now hanging in the air until the new law is passed. The basic question that arises is whether this law should have gone or should have waited for a strategy to be drawn up. If we look at the creation of a strategy that... More than a year ago, which is likely to arrive in the autumn for the first time in public debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After that, the Parliament has a break. Then it will be necessary to agree on the views and accept the strategy so that I think the fact that this strategy will be adopted before the end of the spring next year is not realistic, which means that in fact this mandate would almost pass without any changes in the laws being made. Another fact is that these changes in the law do not bring about changes in some strategic way in the way that the law works, but rather want the problems that have been identified in the functioning of higher education and science to be overcome in some way. I think it should have been done and that this law is going in a positive direction. As I have stated, there have been many objections to the law, but let us not forget that many respected scientists of ours who work with us or in the world have given support in making these changes. There's been a change, so enough. Some are of a technical nature. I might be here, so focus on three or four more significant ones. These changes are related to the way in which they essentially enter the system of higher education, the rest of the system, or whether they remain in the same title or progress, and after how they remain in the system after 65 years, and we have a part that may be new and that is the establishment of a national council. I think this entry into a system that normally has been delayed for two years by law to allow those assistants who are already in a process to end well. So here's the public tender there is for post doc which will certainly allow the best-quality people to stay, i.e. they enter the system by their work, because when they receive, perhaps, assistants cannot be accurately foreseen in this one six-year range which will be the results of their work. The second part that may have caused the biggest recommendations is whether or not to be made compulsory progress. As has been said, we now have one pyramid with the highest titles, which in most cases were acquired by one accelerated process after three years of being realistic, is one fact that nevertheless this progress may have been too fast, and that the conditions for advancement may not have been high enough at the level at which they should have been. In this bill and with the amendments adopted by the Ministry on the Education Committee, otherwise they were in a public debate, it allows every scientist to remain in the title he has acquired, so without obligation to advance into more calling but of course he is not allowed to stay in that place without doing anything. Every four years, or five, one commission of 3 members should be made a report which is then submitted to the college council which decides on this basis, so if the report is positive... How it didn't, then you could run a work break-up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you can stay in the same name, but not without it. On the other hand, it will be possible for each scientist to choose progress depending on his work, which should result in better quality, therefore work and conditions for advancement. The third point was related to staying in the system after 65 years. It is proposed and I think the minister said that the government will also adopt a proposal from the board to be a regular professor in a permanent term after 65 years, if the National Council accepts the report, they can stay for 2 years in the system on the burden of the ministry. But let's not forget one other part that's also important, which is that any scientist, means professor, whether it's a professor extraordinary or regular, can stay in the system, but on the burden of his own resources and institutions that he needs so far, which was not possible. And in some ways, therefore, it will still be possible for quality people who may at some later time have become involved in science since they were in... so that, even after 65 years, they remain in the system if necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, a new council is scheduled. Therefore, in order for the current Council to join the National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education, and for technological development. I think that's good because, therefore, some of the remarks that higher education and science should be separated is exactly the opposite of the proposals that arise. First of all, the University of Zagreb is the largest scientific institution with its works, regardless of what is highly educational, so the institution. The separation of higher education and science with certain special conditions will not go well above all in the very conditions for selecting university work is essentially the scientific component of the most important and it is difficult to expect that young scientists will in some way be created from the elderly if this scientific component is removed. So I believe that higher education and science must go hand in hand that the National Council as such should play a much greater role in the development strategy. Of course, such changes are needed to bring after them a whole series of sublegal acts primarily collective agreements and agreements with the union. In fact, at the present moment, especially high education, the scientific component serves almost exclusively in the selection of multiple titles and in obtaining scientific projects while normalising work in the follow-up. With these conditions if someone progresses, and someone does not, you should consider that one who makes scientific progress should perhaps get less norms through norms or have the right to work on doctoral studies until one who fails to advance would not have the right to work on those highest scientific studies. So I think there's only one part left to solve. But once again, I think that the strategy that is being done is not necessarily necessary for these amendments to the laws that go according to me to change some of the facts that have proved to be not good at science, it's the same as if you have a car and now you're waiting for the road to be made whether it's going east or west, you're going to fix the car. You have to fix that car if you want to drive east or west. So I think these changes are welcome in that direction. With these conditions that will be related to progress in the system, I think it should be strengthened through the normisation of this scientific paper which will definitely play a role in making it easier to make and define which centres of excellence in Croatia. Let us not forget that without any more significant scientific work or higher education institutions, neither European projects nor European projects will be able to be involved. So I believe that one role is to significantly improve the scientific part, to make the position of scientific at the university something that is not achieved formally but something that needs to be earned by its work and that it will then definitely contribute to the development of science in Croatia. I have to say, on the one hand, it's a small amount, though, but at least it's as good as one sign that only science has received in rebalancing. On the other hand, I have to say that I am not glad that the VAT proposal removes that VAT should not be paid on equipment obtained through scientific projects particularly internationally because this could have significant repercussions, so I hope that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports with the Ministry of Finance will find a way to solve this problem that has arisen with the introduction of this VAT. I'd also like to quote a perhaps answer because I didn't have a chance at replication, before the board was mentioned that it was called in 8.45 a day. Well, look, of course there are objections to everyone's work and me as board president, but that's what I think you're wrong about. So, as far as this law is concerned, the committee was both in the first reading and in the second was convened in time with the documents they needed and it wasn't the committee that was today. On the other hand, it seems to me that it was not a practice, and I am as president and we as a committee have also had 2 meetings with the University of Zagreb Council, and we have had an organised thematic session on this law, the thematic session on the issue of calling selection, and I think that some significant remarks on the work of the Committee on this Law on Science and Higher Education are not exactly in the right place. Today's committee was called up because it simply changed the agenda and those points that were supposed to be through two, three days were placed from yesterday to today and I thought it was okay to at least discuss those points. These were related to secondary and primary education, and not to science that was solved has had a long time. As far as functioning and money in science are concerned, it is not realistic for the state to be the only high education and science financier. But not only is it not real because she doesn't have money but if the economy is that she doesn't invest money in science it says two things. This suggests that this economy does not see the benefits of science, which is a situation which is of course not good, especially if we now have, except for our domestics, we have a significant number of foreign companies that invest money in the development of science in their countries, but they don't really do it here. I don't remember any of the companies, any tech or tech companies, etc. as they used to be, I don't know "Rade Concar" and so came and took 30 to 40 of the best students on the FER, etc. So we're still a land of cheap labour for them. I think that economy should see a chance to use science and higher education for its development, not to read in the paper every other day how our quality young people went outside where they managed to achieve any natural activity or science-related activity. Once again, this law should have been over before, if we are waiting for a strategy to continue, then we can simply say that we have a status quo that will not change, and I don't even know the previous ones since 2003, which has seemed to me the core of this law which is now, with later remarks, probably another 10 years since the situation in science, especially the links of science and economy, says that this is not a good direction. So once again I think these changes are welcome, I think a whole series of sublegal acts will be needed to sort it out. We will be in favour of this law, and I hope that the Science and Education Strategy, which should be in some final part, will provide some facts on which we will then be able to work and proposals for a new law not only of higher education, because it is not only a strategy of higher education but of overall education. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46028	Thank you very much. We're moving on to replicas. First honorary Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46029	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Boluncic, neither of you nor any other advocates of this law have actually heard one serious reason that would impose a quick change in the existing law, and especially in such a way that it is not only a change of a few techniques but deeply affecting the very essence of the organisation of the system of science and higher education, and that is said at the same time, but it is not something that is serious though will happen after the adoption of the strategy. It is said that the government has strategic definitions so that it is in line with them, but if everything is said in strategic terms, then what bothers all the expensive professors. Buddha the whole team with the Science Development Strategy if there are already government strategic definitions. Well, then we don't need all that together. or that's why you said that I would quote your words "mandation without change in the law" so that changes are made so as not to accidentally pass the mandate without any changes. I agree with some of the speakers who have said it is not good often to change the laws and I think it is better to consider, well achieve consensus of all interested and then make changes. However, when you said it would speak for the development of science, then I must say that the extension, for example, of a period within which it must remain in the five-year scientific calling, will certainly not have a positive impact on scientific excellence because such a measure will prevent the advancement of young scientists who, within a short time, could achieve otherwise conditions for advancement, especially those that will achieve top-notch excellence and international recognition in which we keep swearing that we care about them the most. And in this sense, this provision will detimise their progress and scientific work, and I do not understand how it could contribute to scientific excellence. However, such progress should avoid rigid and purely formal criteria and should primarily be guided by quality, scientific excellence of candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46030	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46031	Thank you. Well, part of your replica is probably what you didn't get to tell the minister earlier about the strategic government issues I didn't talk about. As to whether it should be brought in haste, so he doesn't even bring in haste, he's got two readings and he started arguing a year and three months ago, so it's not really a rush. If this is urgent, then the term of office should be 15 years in Parliament and not 4. One of the proposals was to move towards change, and I think that during the term of office of this minister, they would mean four years if something were to change, something should go on, not that the mandate would go away and it would be the easiest thing to do to sit on the sidelines and watch things stand alone. As far as the election is concerned, I think the ministry also adopted a proposal for an amendment committee that said five years ago could go to the choice only in which case the criteria would be somewhat stronger. So that young scientist or the old one mostly matters that a scientist who has quality can go into a choice five years ago only because then conditions are a little stronger than they go regularly every five years. So I think that this would be a significant incentive for science development, especially the part that I mentioned, which is that we should sublegal acts and collective agreements where science in higher education should be defined in a greater way. Let's say the one who has more work and is more involved in science and has international projects that might have a reduction in the number of classes that should be taught annually, that should teach in doctoral being a mentor or some other things that have remained for now even though it is science outside science. So we now essentially have regulated more or less norms just higher education and share in the teaching and not science.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46032	Second replica, the respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46033	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You said that it was good that two national councils were abolished which were separated from the National Council for Scientific Activity and the National Council for Higher Education and that it is good that now it is one national council because as an example, I think you listed the University of Zagreb which is the same kind of scientific institution. But if we've experienced changes from 6 universities and 7 universities, we've reached 10 universities, 15 universities and even 30 high schools, then I don't think it's a good idea to have one national council because so far in the National Science Council, they could only be scientists, and now in the National Council that includes science, we have more non-scientists. We ignore the presence of professional studies. This law not sufficiently distinguishes scientific studies from professional studies, and I think that's one big problem. If something changes, then it is necessary to explain why something is bad and what is better than what was before. There's no such reason here. And I don't think it's up to science to be decided by someone who's a high school professor at a professional study or by an entrepreneur or by four businessmen who may not be from an area at all or highly educated, let alone that they're scientists, and I don't think that's good. But you can see from this law the growing involvement of the private sector in the social state sector. This is also seen through the Rector's Council that they have the right to be members of the Council of the University, even though no one from the Rector's Council can be on the Council of the High Schools in the sittings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46034	The replica matches Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46035	So I haven't noticed that this law speaks of a professional and university study I don't think at all mentioning the old difference in that part of it saying that this law goes towards professional studies becoming a part of the university simply doesn't stand. As far as the National Council is concerned, I said that it is good to join the Council on Science and Higher Education because it is to go to the separation of science and higher education is something that is against guidelines that rule in higher education and science, and I only said that then the University of Zagreb would be deprived of science.... It's a highly educated institution. On the other hand, this is the largest production of our scientific work and a lot of people who work may participate in the institute as much as possible is the idea that teachers, i.e. advisers, etc. from the Institute scientists participate in the teaching work. So separation of science and higher education is something that won't come for good. The problem with our science is that there is no relation to the economy and in this sense we see that businessmen and businessmen are part of this National Council. This is what the National Council appoints the Parliament on a proposal from the Government. If this House votes that someone who doesn't even have a primary school can be in the National Science Council, then we're really not far away. We are the ones who will eventually decide whether, therefore, who will be in it to the National Council and technological development. I mean higher education and science go hand in hand. But it also needs to have a sense of action to distinguish which part of the work is going to waste on education and what part of science. It's not that simple, but it's absolutely necessary. So as for the awakening of these schools, as much as, whatever school is created if it has conditions, it's welcome, it's more of a question if all schools have these conditions. For the population of nearly 200 thousand students we now have in Croatia regular, extraordinary, the question is whether it is too small or too large.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46036	Thank you very much. And the last line is the respected Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46037	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I wanted to refer to your statement on the connection of science and higher education but now you have explained everything very nicely in the replica to Mr. Marić. And only someone who has never worked in the system can ask for the separation of those two components. But at the beginning of my replica, I told Mr. Reiner that I would not look back at the issue of strategy at all. But I must say, you did a great job on the chronology of strategy. What I am sorry, truly sorry, is that my colleagues from HDZ, I have the impression that they are trying to deliberately obstruct this Law, ignoring the fact, I repeat once again and that my colleague Reiner did not respond, unfortunately he is not here now, neglecting the fact that in their eight years, they have changed the Law without any strategy. And I know now they're going to say that they were cosmetic changes. What is very important is that we all need to be aware that laws change especially in education because of adaptation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46038	My colleague Tomic, you must replicate Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46039	I've replicated it to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46040	Yeah. Not Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46041	No, no, I didn't replicate Reiner, but I'm talking about it, I referred to his statement on the chronology of the strategy. And that's why it's important to change the laws according to life and work. When the strategy comes, we'll change the law. I'm sorry that strategy wasn't adopted eight years ago. And in my first debate in this House, I said that I am sorry that we did not have any education strategy in the Republic of Croatia 20 years ago so that we would already raise people who will change Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46042	The replica matches Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46043	Thank you. I completely agree with you. So, two things. First of all, I think the relationship between economy and science and higher education is extremely important. We can talk about science and higher education for ourselves but it will condition smaller economic growth, which condition a minor inflow into the state budget, which requires less money for this same higher education and science. Therefore, businessmen as such are necessary. The only thing you don't have to say is that it's the economy that's going to be ahead and pulling science and higher education. It should be the other way around because today we educate when we sometimes read which jobs are therefore insufficient or which there is an excess. In fact, today we educate people who will be on the labour market in 4, 5 years or 6 and we need to know what jobs, jobs will be needed. I say quality educated people are never too much. I think that the needs of another note, it's not an emergency procedure at all, I think this law was supposed to be a year ago. We have entered the European Union and there are European projects. Without a significant increase in scientific work, I think we have very little chance of doing this European scientific. Although our science is probably one of the better parts of society that has blended into Europe to be immediately clear. However, we should work to be an active factor and we can actively participate in the collection of funds and give our contribution to the development of European and world science as Croatia has given throughout the centuries. So it's not like we weren't on that science sketch. However, I believe that these changes are going in order for the scientific component to be more appreciated and that an opportunity will be given to, as is said, deserve to be called scientificly, what I say will lead safely to better and economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46044	His right to speak on behalf of the SDP Club will now be used by respected counterpart Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46045	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister and Deputy Secretary, Assistant Minister, Honorable fellow Members and colleagues. I'm going to start my debate one of the statements from ten minutes ago that my colleague Reiner said absolutely nothing would have happened to wait. It is to us, the citizens gave us the mandate to change, not that absolutely nothing is happening. And this majority supports change, we want change. I'll repeat as a parrot, in eight years you've changed the law, no one has objected to you. I need to replicate from this pay phone. Because once again, I can't understand that you keep repeating the story of the strategy. So persistent. So where was your strategy in those eight years? Have we ever had a HDZ strategy? Where was Croatia's recovery strategy from the economic crisis? Never. But to get back to this agenda point. I'll emphasize the following. During the debate in the first reading, the government programme was particularly highlighted, as the minister said well, the Republic of Croatia for the period 2011/2015. stressing the commitment to higher education and scientific research that will be in line with labour market needs. Furthermore, all the challenges for the Republic of Croatia have been highlighted in harmonising the scientific system with the changes and progress of the European Research Area in the context of the fact that the Republic of Croatia is a member of the European Union. In line with this, embedding guidelines for a new strategy at European level, Europe 20, a strategy for smarter, sustainable and inclusive growth. The aim and purpose of this Act is to create further preconditions for building a public-based scientific and innovation system, the needs of society as a whole with a particular emphasis on increasing the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia at international level and adapting to the obligations arising from membership in the European Union for the Republic of Croatia. Keeping in mind examples of good practice in the European Union. Much has been said about the competence of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. Once again, I will repeat science, and higher education is one body. And it's hard to observe it separately at least for those who at least once set foot in that system, either as students, or as teachers. Furthermore, the law prescribes a clear selection procedure in scientific and scientific teaching, scientific and scientific teaching jobs, with a view to verifying the fulfilment of minimum national criteria and additional criteria of the institutions for jobs. The law abolishes the obligation to move forward in jobs and enables scientists and university teachers to choose career development in accordance with their preferences and needs of institutions, which is also the practice of most European Union countries. Compared to the solutions set out in the bill, the minister said, some proposals were accepted and some amendments and additions were made. It should be noted here that since the beginning of the public debate since April last year more than half of the suggestions have been accepted, more than half of this has been changed in this material that you now have on benches. Many of the comments of the Legislative Committee were accepted between the two readings, and some of the key comments of the IDS Representatives Club were accepted. I'm not going to tell you what these changes are. Finally accepted and some suggestions from counterpart Roksandić, Professor Flege. The proposer fully accepted the proposals of the art academys to establish the equivalence of scientific and scientific teaching and appropriate procedures with artistic teaching titles and procedures in the draft law. The Institute for the Development of Education was also accepted at the the thematic session of the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture to encourage the participation of civil society organisations in the system of science and higher education. At the initiative of the public universities, an updated article of the legislative proposal governing the issues of joint and joint studies and cross-border cooperation has been corrected. The promotion of a number of higher universities in the legislative proposal also addresses the issue of shortcuts for acquired calls and their guidance. The transitional provisions specify how active members of the National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education work until the start of work of the new National Council. The transitional and final provisions state more precisely the provisions on the validity of so far's calls and the choice to call jobs under the provisions of the applicable law. The process of passing this law lasted long, the public debate was unusually long, a number of remarks were observed between the two readings, and according to all the above mentioned SDP club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46046	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President Zeljko Reiner will replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46047	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Tomic, in the first part of your presentation, you said some great phrases about what is in the government's programme that a key commitment to scientific work is in line with the labour market, etc. We'll all agree to that, but what does that mean? What does that really mean and how is it reflected here in this law? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You said this law achieves adjustments, and I quote "which stem from Croatia's membership in the European Union". Please explain to me in a way that has not so far been adapted to the European Union, and in this bill it becomes in line with the European Union, and in terms of science and higher education, other than technical details relating to recognition. But even some of these solutions are actually accidentally made because I can tell you if we talk, for example, about how foreign scientists can come to all places in Croatia there will be a lot of problems in real life. So I say again, I didn't really hear any reason why the amendments to the law had to be passed, which made it impossible to make a strategy for which the note was said to be passed by the end of the 6th month, now I hear for the first time that it is extended to another 6 months obviously. Of course, if such a constant delay occurs, then of course the question of when it will be brought. So let's not get down to it is you did it, what you did, why you didn't do it, etc. Let's talk about this now, not about what was and who was guilty and who wasn't guilty and who was more guilty or who was less guilty. We're talking about this right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46048	Thank you. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46049	Thank you very much. You said the strategy was supposed to be over six months ago, something like that. I can totally agree with you, I'm sorry it's not over 6 months ago, 6 years, 16 years, but also a proposal for this law in April last year. He had nothing to do with the strategy. He moved in a year, the strategy is a year late, since he's 20 years late, I think we're going to survive these six months. But I would only answer your first question when you were saying what good does. I think you referred to my words about the economy, and even this National Council for Science and Higher Education covers technological development. There are representatives of economy and entrepreneurship, they're key, they're not going to run that National Council, they're going to help in this National Council because I guess we're all aware that we lack that connection between science and economy. This attempt by this minister and this ministry to even before adopting a strategy in a certain way to put wind in the back of the economy from the position of science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46050	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Josip Salapic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46051	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. This is an important law that is before us today, and it is good to hear the thoughts of how by the proposings, the Minister and the Ministry and all the clubs of MPs, and we should, in the HDSSB, advocate that this should still be one of the laws because it should reach consensus. Without consensus on such important issues we can freely say Croatia's future we won't do much. It is already known when the law comes in the parliamentary debate about the attitudes of individual clubs, how it will be discussed on parent committees, how the debate will be held, and how it took time and somehow a little more will to reach an agreement and consensus on this issue. Because really our science and higher education is a time when we all need each other to admit that we need changes. Because in these days when we have become a full member of the EU and in the time we live, we will not admit that there are many problems in the system of science and many shortcomings that need to be solved. Any government that wants to be responsible no matter who is in power in Croatia at the moment. Scientists and science in Croatia and the percentage of people who study in colleges together, and our lifelong learning programme should really be a lifelong learning programme, not just a flossula that will be said to be necessary or unnecessary, to list some percentages that move in Croatia from at least 3% to the largest in EU countries 30%. Our goal should be what we as a country can do for science and higher education and what a step it will be. And I agree with my colleague, Tomic, who talked about it, I think at the end of my debate on the link between science and the economy. If it stays only on the projects and I was alone in the science system for seven, eight years and we have to admit that some projects had no purpose in themselves. I do not want to belittle fellow scientists and professors and doctors and masters of science who have worked and scientific recruits who have worked on projects, but the very purpose and purpose at the end of this long-term push for something, and if it is not feasible in practice it does not have this contribution for the economy and will not link this private entrepreneurship and economy with these results of individual projects and scientific research, then it is not very good and then it creates a real financial burden for the Republic of Croatia. And this is something that should be that the thesis of lifelong learning and our attempt to create from Croatia other than for us an important moment of the European country at that high level a country of high knowledge, internationally recognised scientists and internationally recognised works by our experts. We can't say they're gone, but we have to say it's not enough and we saw it in this research. And in these months of public debate that honors exceptions, but in one indicative picture of Croatia's current situation in this part, it is not good and we should strive to ensure sufficient financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia regardless of which authority is concerned and who is currently acting in power in the Republic of Croatia. I believe personally there may have been a misunderstanding at the beginning with the resolution ministry and the minister on some political issues. But when it comes to the goal of these reforms and the goal and aspirations of what we want to achieve, that is where we need to create a consensus. As a party, we too advocate that we should agree on such issues, because we will not do anything good for Croatia if we stumble on issues that should be the future of our children and those students and those young scientists who will need to put and stand at first steps in science if we are already creating some kind of disagreement and inability of agreement. There are many of those things to be given, to listen to the voice of opposition. Because in order for a quality law to really be like that in itself, then you have to listen to some good, constructive proposals that we think should be respected in this until the final draft of the law. I believe that there is a good will of the Minister that until the vote comes, it will be respected. That there is a need for a strategy and we agree and it may not be a good thing that no strategy has been made. We're going to an amendment to the law that's by itself, it's not such a small change. She's important and big, she's got a lot of changes. More than 70 articles are mature for a new law. So if we are going to pursue this quality of the law then if it is about amendments and additions it should be minimal, if it goes into such extensiveness, and we have said that when we have adopted a new Rules of Procedure that has already entered into force if it is something constructive and meaningful more changes then we need to go to a new law. Then we should stick to it because these are really big changes. That there are a lot of advocates for and against in this public debate we've already heard so I don't repeat myself from my colleagues, but I need to say what's important. If we are seeking excellence, now I am asking the question in front of our club excellence in lifelong learning, harmonising with the practice of EU countries, then this issue of non-existence, so that the abolition of the need for advancement in terms of how it is envisaged so far may not be good because it might de-simulate some scientists in further progress, and some of us are allowed to behave lightly in colleges so that they understand their work as a lifelong job, that they no longer need to do anything in their work, then, in our opinion, if on one hand we are looking for excellence, we are looking for lifelong learning, we are looking for harmonisation with European standards, then this, so that it is left to the scientific institution and universities and colleges, the college councils to decide that we should change it for us to do this because we should not know how much of this purpose, how much someone wants to continue to ensure that they do nothing. While others who really want it may come to some time that they have to wait for years and different positions than they have so far and that may be a question that I think should have been complicated differently. I realize maybe the intention, the intensity of it all, but I don't think this structure itself is very good. That's what I'm saying from an experience I've had when it comes to what and what it looks like in practice. There may be some time and opportunity to change that if we can really agree on that. As for the changes in the case of extraordinary studies and therefore the position of students studying in extraordinary studies, and I am in favour of this, that this should be settled as foreseen by the law. Because it is not the same, and it must not happen that when the quotas are filled, and we know where they fill in which colleges, and we know what Croatia needs. Unfortunately, that's not the case. Everyone registers a more or less economy and law, social sciences and what may be a deficit, so this regulation of extraordinary studies in a way that adapts it to really those students who work both in jobs and in the years of life and the way that it can be. I think that's good. Because we had a situation to implement an equal program for regular and extraordinary students in colleges because those who could not enroll regularly entered themselves. We had the same class that was only in the early afternoon hours and not after work, after 16 hours, 17 but it started at 2, 3 hours and that's a good change. What is a little bit of concern, and everyone should ask themselves, and perhaps this reform and strategy that we need to bring is really necessary for all parties to agree on it. This research and this data as many as in colleges of more than 6 thousand subjects were those wicked actions when it came to corrupt actions related to the payment of exams, related to the intervention in exams, regarding the fact that those employed at universities know that copyright works have been paid to some authors and scientists who may not have participated in this. And for all those problems that have been emerging lately in some colleges and universities, I think that introducing order into science and higher education is really something that we shouldn't be fighting about and calling out the past and causing some dark present, and expecting a bright future. I think we should really find a healthy language to find science and higher education outside these political bickerings because it is the interest of all of us, all political parties and representatives and MPs, as well as the entire Croatian public. There has been a lot of talk about problems for years and nothing has moved in the sense that if something is announced there will always be some that will be for and against, always some scientists, doctors of science, some project leaders where for years they may have been funded in who knows what ways and how to object to some changes that are good and necessary in this context of the time we live in. And we always need to listen to those attitudes of opposition that are both good and good and that will contribute to a good law. If a consensus is sought, then sometimes those comments that may at some point seem unnecessary, politically irrelevant, come from parties and clubs that may not at this time be of great importance to the government's work and responsibility. And if we want to be honest with ourselves and want us as opposition clubs in the Assembly to support change and reform, then some things need to be respected. I'm personal about the fact that we need to agree on laws like this. I wouldn't want to repeat now everything that's been discussed about the first reading of this law. Our intention and our desire in the HDSB's Club of Representatives is to really put this law into effect, we are for those changes that will be positive, which are in line with time. We support the Resort Ministry and the Minister in order to make order in the scientific system, to make order where it has been shown and to show that state money is spent needlessly and to finance projects and certain actions that have no benefit to the Republic of Croatia or anyone living in this country. We need to look ourselves in the eye, we need to support what will really be useful for all of us and for all of our colleges and our students and students who are looking for a better future in Croatia. Such laws will be supported and such laws will surely be agreed if they are good and consensus can be reached. So here I call on both the ministry and the minister to try to find a consensus on these issues discussed by former clubmates regardless of what party it was. And what I said on behalf of the HDSSB Club and about the strategy where we should advocate leaving time to both the professional public and the scientific public, but also to find and create a new picture and the Croatian Assembly as a whole. Because if we agree on some important national issues and issues related to Croatia's future, and we can agree on a picture of a high-quality Parliament, the highest representative House of the Croatian People in the Republic of Croatia. If the debates come down to bickering about the past, about the years that are 50 years behind us and some people who are a little bit important or irrelevant, I think it's important how we live tomorrow and each of us and from our children and scientists and science, and if we have to choose between the past and the future, I'm sure everyone would choose the future. And we've done a lot of things so far to stumble on these stairs. So here's what I'm calling all of you to a consensus, if we can agree on it, we'll support everything we're going to do together as representatives clubs and these and they'll support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46052	Thank you. Following is a whole series of replicas, the first of which is respected Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46053	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Salapic, I agree with you, in fact, that when science and education are not only higher education at all, I would say education, but also health care, not because these are areas I personally deal with, but because I think they are indeed areas that every citizen has tangled, that it would be ideal to achieve consensus and that should be pursued. I think it would be very good for Croatia to have us in some areas, which are typical areas around which we seem to be able to reach and we need to reach a consensus, and there will still be enough other areas to possibly argue about ideological or political issues, etc., unfortunately in those areas that I personally think might reach a consensus and we need to reach a consensus he does not achieve. And again I say, and I pointed out that consensus can only be achieved as the word itself says if it is a consensus. So it must be a horse, it can't be unilateral but must be still have to be different sides to agree on it. You actually mentioned something that is very important, however, and that is whether we are scientifically successful or we are not scientifically successful? In fact, there is an impression that we are very unsuccessful scientists. We're like giving a lot of money, and in fact, our science sucks. That's just not true. The data when you look at them clearly shows that if we measure ourselves by the number of published works, it is only actually objective, that science in Croatia is actually more effective than a whole series of far richer countries in Europe. According to some indicators, we're at the top of the line for efficiency. In Croatia, for example, 0.75 works per year are published per researcher, which is at the very top. If you look at the efficiency index, and that money is multiplied by the number of researchers divided by the number of works we're also very good at. Because in this case, if investment is normalized only by purchasing power, then we're the same at the top. So we have relatively objective indices actually good indicators, which doesn't mean we don't have to strive to be even better. And I agree with you, we should be working on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46054	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46055	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, that's where you finally said what I was actually thinking. I didn't say that we are what we say at the bottom but that we should strive for it better. And I was talking about these international works, works that have an international aspect, not in this entire domestic percentage of the total published scientific papers, and I think it's important, and it's important that what's true and sometimes admit that some of the projects that are financed by the state, and regardless of what the government or government is concerned, have proved to be ineffective because they have not contributed to that purpose, which is to link it to the economy and to the direct benefit of society as a whole. I hope you agree with me in this with m scientific work which should have a programming goal to be implemented in practice now you're in the field of medicine, and now we're talking about the economy, if you're going to go towards this weighty integration then that funding by the state should have some concrete benefit and that's that this whole scientific research should be applied in practice then there should be no regrets of money or costs of that if the benefits will be fivefold greater. And speaking of consensus here for a month and more are some laws on topics that I think are important laws for the national interest of the Republic of Croatia, so we couldn't exactly agree, there was too much bickering and that picture is being created we personally think that with a bit of discussion and tension they bring down to one normal to every normal politician and MP, and the minister's goal is to get support and opposition because then it's stupid if we turn out to be there for some brat and something that would be wrong in itself. If something is good to admit that it is good and should be commended, if something is wrong, it should be said that if we can agree on some things and these are important questions for me, and here we should all acknowledge that it is an interest for the ministry and I hope for the minister, and for all the club representatives. Then the law itself has the responsibility that we have all taken this responsibility together, not just the Minister or the Ministry or the ruling or opposition, but all together, it is then much greater benefit for society as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46056	The second line is the respected Valter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46057	Well, you'd be replicating this part of your relationship with the economy. That's what I pointed out. It's a very important thing, but I wouldn't want it to go to the opposite effect as a metronome from one side to the other. In history, there was a lot of things that at that moment seemed to be in scientific research that no one could be used nor mattered but to be followed by 10. 20 or 30 years have become significant. As one great scientist has said if you, before you start working on a science project in most cases, have to describe what will be the goal and result of what science is like when you already know in advance. So the labour market is the one that can't happen to have the need for people without having that kind of frame. But that doesn't mean that you can't educate some fit that might at that point be more on the labour market. I don't think that humanistic sciences should suffer especially because of this, and I think that in this sense the ministry should see certain kinds of incentives in those sciences that may not have the ability to work for the economy or for the economy and yet are important for the cultural heritage of a nation. So research as such is always welcome, important to nature but we don't have to ignore and go into it if there's nothing direct... then it doesn't matter. I mean, it's gonna show up in 10, 20 or 30 years. 30 years ago, in computer centers where I worked most of this hall half of this room was the computer center all that was there today was on that microchip that fit into the cell phone. So science must be ahead of the economy must have the means to work on something that does not act immediately but will certainly come forward sooner or later. So let's not go from one side to the other as a metronome. And as far as the consensus is concerned, I love your performance. I think that's very good. I hope we can find a consensus on this, especially if we give up that dialogue when everyone agrees to what we're looking for. I think the two sides are there, I hope the ministry has accepted a lot of things that weren't at first.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46058	The replica corresponds to Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46059	Thank you, Vice President. You've now spoken more like a scientist than a politician, and that's good. So that's where you and I got along. I didn't say it was the most important thing to connect with the economy right now is that there's nothing more to it than that. There are many things in which we agree completely and science should be ahead of the economy. But what I wanted to say to myself if we say we don't need to change then we don't advocate that in some projects and in some things there should be this direct contribution to the economy because we are unfortunately a country that, at that time, with one rich fund of scientists and quality people, we are more committed to one side which is a surplus in Croatia and perhaps we don't support enough in the deficit. I agree with you here, and I support these changes in the law that will support those deficiting sciences that are not sufficiently capacitated. I have worked at the Faculty of Law we have enrolled 700 candidates for graduate lawyers and if after so many years we will make it possible for all of them to work, unfortunately I am sure that we will not have to destimulate it then, we should give everyone to study and search for what they are competent and what they like, but we should have some kind of viewing picture of Croatia in the EU that we can give, where we can financially strengthen from the state budget, which projects we will more finance and give priority to those scientists to provide enough money in the economy for some time we are looking at in the future and then we will be able to finance from that entire fund what we cannot today. And this is some kind of joint contribution that a quality law on science and higher education should make. And here we agree whether we sometimes speak as politicians as scientists each protects our own defences because we are sensitive to it, and I think that our goal is also this debate which is so constructive... and this is some kind of better future and insurance and financial resources not only from the Treasury but from the private sector, and I think that the private economic sector should have an interest in investing in science then we have achieved the goal of a good law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46060	The third line is the respected Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46061	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Salapic's debate showed that it comes from the system, it's more than obvious, a lot of constructive suggestions whether he would refer to some of his statements simply to supplement what he said. Speaking of the link between education, labour markets and lifelong education, I would only remind him that it is the Croatian qualification framework that in some ways solves the problem whose implementation has begun. Also, when he spoke about the obligation to advance, I would like to remind him that he may know that a study conducted at a university shows that more than 50% of the authors' correspondence is on the works and my colleague Salapic knows what I'm talking about is precisely because of the obligation to advance. This law is trying to fix that thing. When you talk about consensus I fully agree with you, I would be happy that we can have a consensus on all the important issues in the state although when we once had a consensus on some things the results were not necessarily good, unfortunately. But if we can't have a consensus, then someone is responsible for cutting. It's the executive power at this point, even though we shouldn't force the Consensus story on this matter, because I think it actually exists. I noted more than half of what was proposed has been amended since April 2012 in this final proposal of the Law. Finally, you mentioned a very popular sentence in Croatia that we are a land of knowledge or that we want to be a land of knowledge, we often point out that. I just want to add that it's not the land of knowledge where people know something, but where people use that knowledge. And this law goes that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46062	Last line. You didn't sign up for... You didn't sign up, that's where I'm looking... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The last replica of Domagoj Hajdukovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46063	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so here's my colleague and I will join the others and say that you've put the ball down a little bit, and there was emotion in this debate. But I think what you colleagues might be after is when we talk about consensus but consensus is a good thing that we understand each other. But consensus in strategic definitions and politics, that's what the difference is. So, when we adopt a strategy I hope we have a consensus actually, that would be something and normal. Not only in education, not only in science, but in economics, foreign policy, in all strategic aspects that are important for the Republic of Croatia. However, the implementation of these strategic definitions, therefore, any political option can have its own vision in how to implement it. Let her implement it, one way or another, but that's what's open for discussion. I hope to the strategy that we will all share, that we are all strategically interested, as you yourself said competitive science in Croatia, competitively higher education, educated young people, etc. As far as progress is concerned, there's a colleague named Tomic who started the topic in one segment, however, I would add one another. In the Republic of Croatia, about 6,000 employees of scientists. A year's progress is 1,500 scientists in more calling and I don't even see anything controversial here. We, our people, have indeed given great scientists. Let's get Nikola Tesla, who's got a birthday tomorrow. Let's just start with him. However, what is indicative is that 60% of those who advance skip by a number of professions. Now that's something where we need to imagine ourselves and worry and what I believe the strategy will ultimately and afterwards, so when we discuss some final bill, that will solve it. And as for law and corruption within higher education, I can say that, unfortunately, as in all segments of society, there are weeds and there I absolutely agree with you that we should work with all the forces to eradicate it. Because that's actually what we send a very bad picture to future generations if we get used to it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46064	This replica corresponds to Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46065	Dude, that's what you said. I've expressed that fear that some of the unholy acts that appear are destroying that image of science. We have also witnessed in our county and in the city that there is everything and everything, and it is necessary to strive that through quality laws not only this one, but all others, too. I've also expressed concern for this need for further progress. Because there are those scientists and those assistants who, it will come in handy, so they don't have to make any more progress and write scientific papers, and somehow that need to be, I think it took more work, more worried about the workplace. Because these are all jobs that have been at a certain time, so up to the last goal, to, we know how it usually goes in that advancement from doctorate to... to a place on the cathedral and that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think that somehow made it work more. Now whether this will be better will show practice. I said all those things that are good should be supported, there shouldn't be a problem. And we all need to be worried together. And I don't know if you know that in our county only 8% of citizens are highly educated in Osijek-Baranja County. And that this need for lifelong learning, investment in science, connecting science with the economy, with local administration, with the city administration, the county administration with, therefore, all kind of important factors of government should also contribute to this part of this Law on Higher Education. And I really think that on that trail, the debate should be constructive, that these tensions should be brought down on those issues that matter to all of us. There's no room for politics. We know what questions will be raised when the elections come what is said to be political bickering. And for me, this is important, no, not only for strategy but also for the law to reach consensus. There, and I'm sorry I couldn't make it to my colleague, Tomic, but we understood each other in the debates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46066	Thank you, too. I now call for the pay phone of respected Igor Coleman to present the views of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46067	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, esteemed ministers and assistant ministers. What's not controversial and nobody really thinks I'm questioning is that in the system of science and higher education they need to change, that all sorts of terms are being used, the introduction of order, etc., therefore, it's not something that is at all questionable. The debate on this law is really going on, it's going on for an extremely long time. And the fact is, statistically speaking, that one part of the remarks that occurred in this debate was respected in this second reading, and that is, until this second reading, and that is commendable. But in our opinion, some of the key remarks were not respected. In the end, however, you are the minister, and in this sense you are also at the beginning of the mandate, and with this law, you have taken responsibility for the success of others as well as this project, and I can understand it politically at some point. The fact is it's a very complex system that needs one serious modernisation, let's use that expression now. This debate also showed that there are strong and diverse interests on the one hand, but also strong and diverse arguments from participants and discussions on the other. This reform is not an easy job, you know best, and we also know that some of your predecessors in that attempt not to say broke their teeth because it may be a little rough word, but surely they had big problems in that context. We in the HNS also considered it because of these arguments and because of interest and because of the weight of the work that is here before us, we still consider ministers that these changes should have been approached in a slightly different order, with slightly different priorities and with some different solutions. That's what I was talking about in my first reading, and it mostly comes down to a few of those key arguments that appeared in the debate, not to repeat them. But absolutely political, so I'm not going to talk about science at all right now, politically speaking, you've stood very strongly behind this proposal, behind your way of solving the problem, and we as a coalition partner can understand it and accept it and, in this sense, at this point in time, it's best that we agree on this law that we disagree. The HNS will support this bill with two key remarks. One is, of course, we expect adjustments, changes and a new law after the strategy has been adopted, but also after the first analysis of the functioning of this law that we will soon pass and another, and this is very important, as you have so far assumed strong responsibility for the work you are doing and for these amendments and additions to the law so we will expect in the future to take serious responsibility and in the case of success that we hope for, but I stress that, and in case of failure. Anyway, thank you, and I hope it's still a success.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46068	Thank you, too. We have one replica, the Honorable Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46069	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Coleman, I agree with everything you said, it absolutely stands, but I took advantage of the opportunity to actually come forward because I didn't say anything that was related to an earlier replica, which is the way scientists, or teachers, who turned 65 years old. That was mentioned a little bit. However, the problem is that this has been improved in relation to the first version unequivocally, however, it is not really solved properly, because the procedure is very complicated and the procedure is knowing that the slow mills of our higher education institutions and universities etc., I am not sure that when the procedure is launched, and the year after year it has to be extended, that this process will in general end in those years, and some things will be questioned. We need to know that in Croatia, in fact, regular teachers are in permanent calling, so those who turned 65 were thus brought into an unequal position with some other titles that made it possible, e.g. Judges of the courts of all kinds. And now, the state justifiably appreciates the knowledge and experience of judges and it is not clear why this would not be the case with university teachers who actually gain their full scientific and teaching maturity relatively late. Therefore, there would be reasons, and the more Croatia is now going for everything, in fact, to extend the working age to 67 years, as announced, to get rid of it even better, this is better than the first version of the law, but it's not actually in real life, I'm not sure that this is really how it's going to be done in real life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46070	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46071	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. This is certainly one of the provisions in which the law is significantly improved during this debate, and I think, I mean, now we can divulge and speculate, maybe it's better that we don't do it at all, it seems to me that two years is a time in which even in real life the whole story can be arranged and solved. I, among other things, stressed that we expect a serious analysis of the effects of this law and in this sense taking responsibility and adopting then change and further adaptation of the whole story. However, another note, you gave me the creamworth in some way, so there really is a lot of provisions in this law that are good, acceptable, that should be made. There's a lot of those that are in the meantime, let's say roughly, even though it may be too rough a formulation. However, from our perspective, it actually reminds me in some way of that story about meteorology. So, you can say every day that tomorrow will be the same time as today and in 90% of the cases you'll be right. The only problem is that you will not predict any change that is relevant in that whole story. So it seems to us that there are some things left here that are kind of crucial in this law for further resolution. And in that sense, I also expressed my hope in both my own and the club's name that this would be taken into account and that, then and after the strategy, we would still continue on this job and after the analysis of the first effects of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46072	Thank you very much. We move to individual debates of representatives in the Croatian Parliament for 10 minutes. The first is the honourable representative Goran Maric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46073	Thank you very much. I don't think we should close our eyes to the fact that educated people in Croatia are getting more and worse and that we should draw some conclusions from that. If highly educated 15 years ago was 6.3% today 20 percent, and the situation in all segments is worse than it was then something in our society is wrong. I certainly couldn't agree that we're a land of knowledge, but that lately we're becoming a country diplomat anyway. The question is whether these diplomas and knowledge are particularly applied knowledge and needed by our society. And I think we should all ask ourselves about the worrying and data how it has always been more foreign study in Croatia than the Croatians have studied abroad. And today it's the other way around. About 7,000 Croats are studying abroad, and only a small number from abroad are studying in Croatia, and every day our mouths are full of excellence, full of mouths of increasingly better education, more institutions and more and better laws. 30 high schools, 1200 study programs. So does anyone wonder in this society which study programs are needed in Croatia, to what extent or only necessary for those who have first-class studies. This proposal for amending the law is an opportunity to say everything that is even unbearable and is happening in the academic community. We must not forget that unpleasant situations happen in college, that the DORH has its hands full at university. And, of course, the ministry needs stronger supervision. Because I think a lot of problems have come up because of a lack of surveillance. But quality surveillance. There is no system and no analysis, and without analysis, there is no appropriate system. How many economic colleges there are, how many business schools there are, how many professional high schools we have, and you see the economy getting less and less people need, and the worse it gets. The more experts in the economic field, the worse the situation. No wonder the strangest circumstances and the most unacceptable circumstances occurred at economic colleges. And it has not been solved that long ago should have been resolved for years by those who have left behind the academic community are still present not only, but also decided, to draw key moves. They cannot possibly agree with those who are discussing this bill in a way that comes out of the academic debate. If one area requires academic communication, then this is the area. That is why I would never dare say that those who have separated the Council for Science and the Council for Higher Education, which is under the existing law that only those who are not in the system can conclude that. So, are all those who have passed such a law and that all those who have passed such a law, who have supported it, who have been in force for so many years so easily discredited that they almost know nothing, because they are probably not in the system. So who brought it, but those who are in the system. If this should be changed in advance, then it is only necessary to explain well why the existing solution is not good, what are the adverse consequences of the existing solution and what will be the benefits of the new proposed solution. And I would always accept if it was well explained and if it was really visible that it was a better solution than the existing one. But just so you discredit those who think otherwise I think politics is very common, but when it comes to science and higher education, we should avoid such definitions. How much the ministry has approved a pass without thinking, and I don't mean this or that, generally the ministry. How many study programs were going on without permission, I think, Mr. Minister, you probably know that. How many postgraduate studies have been paid to find out after two years that they don't have a permit for this postgraduate study at all? Of course, all one proposal for amending the law cannot be solved, but we must not ignore it. And you know what happens then? When it is established, when students learn that they do not have a license simply after attending lectures, they are transferred to another study, all exams are admitted and graduates are given. You know how many there are? You know how many of those who don't know science doctors from doctors? How promoted at the university doctoral profession to scientific teaching, and that they couldn't have been because they were doctors of the profession and not doctors of science. That's what he's got. Not to mention the promotion criteria that turned into publication of articles without any criteria. Many don't even see the article they signed, but it's one condition for advancement. But I think such conditions have become even pointless. But we have dozens of regular professors who are 30 or 40 years at the university without publishing any book, using books from other professors. And then what they do is I just know. We have in every major city now and the Academy of Drama Arts, and the needs for drama artists are getting smaller and smaller. Students are getting higher and higher. And then what are we making? Frustrated intellectuals in Croatia. So who wouldn't be frustrated to invest so much in themselves, and then wait for years to work and not get it. Even here, I can't get it from drama artists or soap opera artists because they order some models from neighbouring countries all the time, and I can't get drama artists a job in Croatia. And just one word when it comes to the Rector's Assembly, that there are representatives of higher schools and private schools present at the Rector's Assembly, and in the Council of Higher Schools they cannot attend the meetings of members of the Rector's Assembly. It's the same rest from before. But it's complementary to just one more supplement, but it's illogical and unnatural to me. Thank you very much. My time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46074	Thank you too, dear colleague Maric. Replications have been reported to your presentation. The first replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46075	Dear fellow Marić, you said that the Academy of Drama Arts is producing frustrated intellectuals who can't get a job, they're becoming harder and harder to get a job in Croatia, and besides their roles, we took over here in the Parliament, so we're playing here more and more often. And what you're saying is why are they importing models from other countries to act in soap operas? They're much cheaper because that's the market economy. One conclusion I agree with you, all here who are from the system compliment themselves on how well they work, and the system doesn't work and the system is bad, and they're all good. It's often here, and in the economy. All good economists, and the system isn't worth it. I agree with you, Mr. Tomic will now replicate after me, who will tell you again about the strategy. Yeah, you needed an analysis and you needed a strategy. What does Croatia need? What do we need to study? What professions are missing? What kind of analysis do we have, on what basis are we talking and passing the law? And it takes as long as it's been said here that the strategy should have been brought 20 years ago. Yeah, it should've been 20 years ago, maybe 40 years ago. It should be planned in 10, 15, 20 years ahead. However, this has not been done and it is quite logical that this authority that has promised it is expected to do more than your authority has given. Your government didn't do it, and she did a bad thing not doing it. And I certainly expect this authority to do to us everything that yours hasn't done, to correct everything that your government has done wrong, perhaps we expect too much, but in a year and a half we've got it too little.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46076	Replica response, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46077	You compared your colleague Vuksic with something incomparable, to import these models for acting in soap operas because they are cheaper. But you compare drama artists to models. Models are for staging, not acting. That's why it's so unsightly to watch those soap operas. You really can't watch that. It's a masochist who can stand in front of TV and watch such shows. But the truth is that there is no analysis but not only in the education system, it is undeniable that it is a crisis of the education system, it is undeniable that the crisis of the economic system, it is undeniable that we are in a crisis of society in general, but there is no systematic analysis in any segment. But without systematic analysis, there can be no necessary strategy. Of course, it is necessary to draw up a strategy based on existing analysis, based on a targeted vision of what we want and what society needs. Does society need 10,000 economists every year or not? But they keep signing up and they keep ending up. We have no first-timers, but they don't have a job because it's impossible to hire. What does it say in calling them? First-rate. Well, no one understands that anymore but who doesn't understand that the patient is a delusion and that Croatia has lost years and years on the Bologna methodology of education then it won't even work because only when you know you're mistaken then it makes you work and look for something else. And we're on one dead end, there's a bill of good stuff in this bill, but it doesn't solve anything at all. In essence, it will continue to ignore all the negatives I mentioned and continue to function only more perfectly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46078	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46079	Thank you very much. Mr. Maric, this law is not meant to be a strategy for itself. In your debate, you have gone deeply into the strategy which I absolutely support and absolutely demonstrates the need for a strategy. You mentioned diplomas, the application of their, worrying data, I absolutely sign everything you said in that section, and that is why we need a strategy, and that is why, as counterpart Hajdukovic said about the strategy, it may be necessary and consensus. But I'm going to go back to this thesis of you connecting the national councils and that's bad. First of all, the fact that you said there was no explanation why it was necessary. Well, that's just not true. In the bill there's an explanation why it's done, please read it and see if the explanation might be wrong, you didn't say it, you said it didn't exist. Next, we have to change things when we see something's wrong. According to the number of works, Croatia stands well, and the quality of these works is not good. And this is on the trail and this change is on the trail so in the context of that and the story of optional advancement where you yourself said "some don't see the article under which they signed" and that's right, that's the problem, that's worrying. Why do these people do that? Because they have a commitment to progress. I mentioned in the debate just before that one study at a Croatian university, a serious study found that more than 50% of people who sign articles have never seen these articles and only do so because of the obligation to advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46080	Reply to the replica, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46081	Col. Tomic, of course, I was talking about the problems that point to the need to develop a strategy because they flooded the Croatian reality. And we've lost touch with reality. And you may be amazed by my current thesis, of course, that always invested must fit usefully and you spoke a little earlier that at one stage it was less invested in scientific activity and higher education, and now to plan more investment. I think we're putting too much money on what we're getting at. For investment in scientific activity and higher education, we can get much more with the same invested resources. And again, I'm saying it's not just this social part of life. With otherwise invested money from the state budget in each segment, we would have to and we could get better quality and greater benefits. As for published papers, so they were set up to stimulate multiple works. And what is the point of publishing and their contribution? Well, we are, by published papers, more likely in higher education and science, and in practice we are actually very, very, very close to the bottom. Otherwise, I have to admit that although I am not a man who is angry when it's written like this, it says "in the area of quality assurance in science and higher education, the Republic of Croatia is in the leading place in the region". I don't think we're leading in relation to Italy, Austria, Slovakia, Hungary, and that's the Croatian region. I think it's a lot more if we're going to talk about the concept of the region in Hungary, Italy, Austria than Macedonia, Kosovo and the rest. That's why I think this incorrect claim that we are leading in this quality of education in the region thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46082	Thank you, too. A new replica and respected vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46083	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Maric, I agree with you that there should always be arguments and evidence about the benefits of new solutions if they are introduced there is a problem with this proposal. But you mentioned the need to oversee the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and I agree, of course, is one of the ministry's intelligence. However, what is strange to me, for example, is that Article 58(3) contains scientific projects and programmes of infrastructure and equipment and thus returns to the minister in some way the power to finance scientific projects, infrastructure and equipment programmes. Now, the Honorable Minister said that science will be financed so that part of it will be obtained from the Croatian Science Foundation part will be obtained from EU projects if they are obtained, they are extremely difficult and complicated to obtain but can be obtained, and part from those so-called. a pseudo-programme contract. But now I don't understand why this story was then introduced about the power to grant scientific projects, programmes, infrastructure and equipment because if a decision has been made that it will primarily go through the Croatian Foundation for Science, then it is unnecessary. And if it insists on parallel financing from both the Ministry and the Science Foundation, then that former Article 111 which defined the tender procedure for projects of capital equipment registers of capital equipment etc. should also be returned. who stopped being worth it. So there's so much about some aspects of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46084	Reply to the replica, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46085	Fellow Reiner Croatian society is always committed to extremes. Either the minister has no responsibility or no authority in some segments, or he wants to overestimate them all. In this particular case, the minister has, or according to this, an authorisation which I don't think he should have. And it's interference directly. But at the same time, there are areas where he has no authority and no responsibility. What did the ministry do specifically, not at a declarative level, against those who organised summer schools throughout Croatia to pass exams? There is only one university at Zagreb University. What about colleges at the other universities? With the same college in Split, for example. Where the passability of the exams was 92%. From which students? Of those students who couldn't pass that exam at all. That's where the Ministry should have greater powers and intervene in such cases. And not the ones who organized it, that's what they made, and today they make good money and they still work. I mean, in relation to the Ministry, we should have more power than the Deans, but it seems to me that the Deans are isolated everyone in their world and can do whatever they want. And I fear that higher education in Croatia is increasingly about individuals' aspirations rather than about social and general well-being and that is not good for the overall education in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46086	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Valter Boljunčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46087	So I'd actually be replicating maybe a whole ton of your debate where one exceptional black painting of higher education and science. And I don't really think so, there are big problems, but people who come out of our colleges are in most cases well educated and it's best seen because these young people unfortunately can't find jobs in Croatia but they find it quite good and quality jobs out there. It means they came out with a certain profession and quality education. I think that's why, and their frustration, they invested in themselves, most of them educated in quality, didn't find a job. And that's where they need to find this greater skill to allow them to work with us. And as I mentioned, foreign companies that spend significant money on science and higher education in their countries do not do the same. Secondly, there are these negative events in science and higher education that you have stated but should somehow indicate that they are not all of them. Otherwise, it will come to the fact that our science is not worth anything that is not true. It's quite high-quality, but maybe the management of that system wasn't at a certain level. I certainly am, although I come from this system, not what my colleague Vuksic said before we flatter ourselves or so, I have made it a mass of times that the academic community is actually guilty of what was before at Fuchs Law so-called. And now she didn't have enough of her high-quality people to come out with one bill of law not only to make remarks on every law that comes out not to be worth this or that. So I think the negative facts in society should be shown on that side, but let's not exaggerate and find out where there is no. I think there are no doctors in Croatia. There are only doctors of science in Croatia. If you weren't thinking of a doctor as a doctor of medicine. The doctor of the profession is something that may exist in the education systems of Germany or so. But as far as the relationship between and increasing the number of institutions is concerned, it's basically the National Council that gives both the Admission Agency and that's where the real quality should be checked but if there are, that doesn't mean they're excess. I think we're on a single market where people will come to our studios because we're a beautiful country. We don't just need to educate people from Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46088	Reply to the replica, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46089	Thank you very much. My colleague Boluncic is far from thinking that he is a black painting in Croatia. I just said we shouldn't close our eyes to events like this. Of course, the academic community, the university, the scientific community is made of beautiful people and excellent and scientists. But we can't close our eyes to those who embarrass that academic community. And I was just trying to point you out because, because they're embarrassing them just because, otherwise, the picture would be different, so I would show a different picture. As for the doctor of science and the doctor of the profession, I was just talking about doctors from abroad who recognized the status of doctor of science in Croatia. And I'm not saying that in my head. And they were promoted today to a regular professor. Because someone admitted to them the status of a doctor of science and actually obtained a doctor, a doctor's status abroad. Well, I'm just saying that there are cases like this and that the Ministry has to react to such cases and that it has to have the authority to react to such cases. Of course, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, I think, represents a flower of intelligence and reason in the Republic of Croatia. But it also doesn't need to close your eyes there that even among them, those who can be considered the father of corruption in colleges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46090	Thank you, too. I can conclude that schooling and education is not the same, and since we have lifelong education, the difference is clear. Now it's time for the Honorable Representative, Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46091	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, assistant. The intention of adopting this Law in this perhaps longer period of time is certainly to improve scientific activity and higher education. But it also coincided with the entry into the European Union and the European space of higher education. By getting into that space, I think we should adopt some of the liquids and the achievements of that space, so I'll go no matter what it is from the '90s. to this day, three times the number of students has been increased three times since 2003, which has doubled the number of higher schools to date, or since 2003, three times the number of studies, programmes. I would, however, advocate and suggest that we adopt, install in this law and one of the European flows of music and dance education, which is the conservatory that implies that in one institution under one roof there is both higher and higher education and primary and preschool education. The reason is also more and more the fact because of specific artistic education. Through this vision we would certainly get one vertical education, get one cheaper education, get one better use of space, and certainly even better use of that specific teaching staff. And I think there's a third reason that's extremely important, and that's also the need for the labour market and for the promotion of the profession, so I'd like to set up a conservatory within which so far we could run what's most necessary, organize a few studies, I'll say a national instrument of tambur, for that study of crying and elementary and secondary schools and composition, professional composition, cultural and artistic societies and we don't have that frame, regardless of what can be heard here that some can't get a job. The second moment or second study could be singing, folklore, folklore, pop, rock, jazz, and also secondary and elementary schools and cultural and artistic societies, etc., that I don't take time and certainly what's particularly interesting, study for a ton of masters or tons of engineers, audio engineers, however you will, which you will need, which is almost all electronic media, tonic studies, professional sound, and is also needed as a teaching staff in primary schools. I know that every study must have a license and that it can only be solved and meet all those criteria by the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education, but I think this should be installed and that this should be further encouraged precisely in this musical, dance, artistic education and expression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46092	Thank you very much. That's how we exhausted the list of people reported for discussion. Is the representative of the motionary... yes. Dear Minister Zeljko Jovanovic, Minister of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46093	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you all for the debate and for contributing to this reading of the law that I consider really very good quality. I think that at the moment the debate was exactly what the debate about the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education would be and should be, devoid of any demagogy, politicizing because we in our Ministry do so. I will also repeat to you this occasion that my closest two associates, assistants for higher education and scientific assistants are non-partisan people who are first and foremost interested in just improving higher education and science. I think that in the debates of Mr. Tomic, Boluncic, Salapic and Coleman, you sum up all the key messages that concern how to improve the quality of work in this Assembly, how to conduct a discussion that has the aim of consensus, but I would quote, it seems to me that Mr. Boluncic said this, "a dialogue is not if you agree to anything else he asks for," so Mr. Reiner would probably say that this was a quality dialogue, that we accepted everything he asked of us. But look at Mr. Reiner's first version that was in the debate and look at the last version, you'll see that we've accepted almost 50% of the changes to the first proposal we've offered. I think it's really a quality dialogue that led to the law here today being better than the first version, but you insist that we accept everything you're asking for, to give up all our proposals. It's not a dialogue, and that's not how the dialogue will be conducted, so the consensus will never be possible. Also, I'm really saying, this law doesn't have any political features. I have very good friends in HDZ who support this law and, of course, friends who do not support this law. There are people in the SDP who support this law and those who do not support this law. In the academic community you will find in every area, every university, every university, every university, every university that supports it, and those who don't support it. That's right. However, the solutions we offer are exactly the solutions to all the problems that Mr. Maric has raised, but he will have to look for answers to his questions in one other place, with my predecessors, with Mr. Primorac and Mr. Fuchs because my mandate reduced the quotas in economic colleges, closed dislocated studies that opened without permission and without filling out the human resources. So we solve problems. And I will repeat, the problems we have today in the academic community can only be solved if we work and think differently than when these problems have arisen and this law offers such solutions. I thank again everyone who has constructively contributed to make this law better and better quality and, of course, assume the responsibility requested by Mr Coleman thanks to this law, our system of higher education and science will be better than it was when I took office in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46094	Thank you very much. One replica of Honorable Representative Zeljko Reiner, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46095	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, you naturally quoted my colleague Boluncic. You didn't tell me when I said that dialogue is always successful if it's run between the two sides. One side should also listen to the other side, not just one side speak. Of course, no one in the consensus expects all of his remarks to be accepted, i.e. I do not know one other party, etc. But there's got to be a will to get halfway out of one side and halfway across the other side. Yes, a series of remarks were accepted. However, these remarks were exclusively the remarks made by members of your coalition except for the single remark which was accepted by the esteemed representative Ivanka Roksandić. All this, however, was about things I would not really like to simplify and say that they are less valuable, are not less valuable, less important, etc. But the key, the big things that more of us had not changed at all, and there was no will to talk about it at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46096	Thank you, too. That's what we've exhausted. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Health Activity and Higher Education Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 270. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I ask the Minister of Honored Zeljko Jovanovic to be manifested. Let's go to the Legislative Committee. Amendment number one to Article one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46098	Dear President of the Parliament, if you agree to all the first 10 amendments on the list are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46099	The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46100	The Committee on Law and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. So amendments from one to ten are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46101	Now we're going to read one, two, three, good legislation committee. One amendment of the Committee on Science, two Committee on Science, for the sake of the minutes, three Committee on Science, amendment number four of the Committee on Science, amendment number five of the Committee on Science. Is that all the amendments? Great. [[/Step on the side: Everyone.]] Thank you very much, Minister. They become an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft law What else is there? [[There's more.]] Okay. Here you go. Wait a minute, wait a minute. He's got a representative of Davorin's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46103	On behalf of the HDZ Club, we are seeking a name-named vote on this law that has caused major controversy in the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46104	... Amendment of the Honored Ministers of Others. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The legislation and the Committee on Science. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. And the request is addressed by written means? ... You don't have to? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, individually? Okay, I'm asking. I ask loudly, you hear everything. There's nothing to hide. Is it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? There's nothing to go on. We are voting on the final draft of the law individually. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46105	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović - za, Ante Babić - v, Vedran Babić - za, Branko Bačić - v, Lidija Bagarić - za, Jakša Baloević -, Martina Banić - v, Petar Baranović - za, Milorad Batinić - za, Valter Bijeljić -, Josip Benčić - za, Davor Bernardić - za, Goran Beus Richembergh - za, Vladimir Bilek - za, Dubravko Bilić – za, Boris Blažeković – za, Valter Bolunčić -, Josip Božinić -, Davor Božinović -, Dinko Burić -, Dragan Crnogorac -, Ljiljana Cvetović - za, Živna Živić – Živić, Živić – Živić – Žažažažak – Želj, Željić – Žežak – Žežak – Željak – Žežakić – Žažak – Žažak – Žažak – Žaž, Žažak – Žaž, Hr – Žaž, Žažak – Žažak – Živić, Žažak – Žažak, Živić, Žažak – Žažak – Žažak – Žažak – Žažak – Žažažažak – Žažak – Žažak – Žažak – Žažak – Žalić, Žažak – Ž.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46106	Repeat those who have not responded.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46107	Jakša Balojevic, Nevenka Bečić, Valter Bolunčić, Josip Borić, Davor Bozinović, Dinko Burić, Dragan Crnogoorac, Tomislav Čuljak, Martina Dalic, Ivan Drmić, Josip Đakić, Drazen Đurović, Ivan Grubišić, Tonka Ivčević, Gordan Jandroković, Perica Jelječević, Damir Jelić, Bozidar Kalmeta, Tomislav Karamarko, Željko Kerum, Tomislav Klarić, Jadranka Kosor, Dragutin Lesar, Franjo Lucić, Goran Marić, Stjepan Milinković, Darko Milinović, Đuro Popijač, Ante Sanader, Đurdica Sumrak, Ivan Šantek, Vladimir Sks, Miroslav Tuđman, Zoran Vinković, Marija Vukbartović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46108	Let's add it up and publish it. I find that most of the vote is 77 votes for, 33 abstentions and... 33 v, I apologize, 33 v and 6 abstentions adopted by the Law amending and supplementing the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. And now we're going to discuss - the final bill of amendments and the addition of the Sport Act, the second reading, P.Z. No. 316. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply when the law is passed. These are Articles 194 to 202. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received reports from these committees at the session. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Science, Education and Sports Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe that you were all filled with pride when we had the ceremony of joining the EU and when two of the key speakers representing Croatia were one scientist Prof. Dr. Ivan Djikic, who showed me the extent to which Croatian science in the world has the reputation of another Mr. Ratko Rudic as a representative of Croatian sport. We sent two very important messages about Croatia, that Croatia is a small country but a country that has top scientists and top athletes. We have just completed a debate on science, and we have before us a debate on the Law on Sports, which has this very goal of further highlighting the role and importance of Croatian sports and Croatian top athletes in the recognizability of Croatia in the world. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the laws that are before you are going in that direction. So Croatian athletes, top Croatian athletes who are truly without any exaggeration the largest Croatian ambassadors in the world by which Croatia is recognised throughout the globe allow them to continue their work in two directions. One direction is to continue the promotion of Croatia worldwide and the other is to continue the promotion of sports in Croatia so that in Croatia young generations have role models that will encourage them to further engage in sports. For this reason, in this proposal, we propose that state recognitions to medal winners at the Olympic Games, the Paralympic Games, the Olympic Games of Deaf and World Championships of Olympic Sports and Discipline allow the achievement of monetary compensation if Croatian citizens, have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, have completed 45 years of life, are not legally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for the criminal offence committed. So this isn't retirement I keep saying it. In fact, this is a way for all our top athletes to be more active, to participate in projects of the Croatian School Sports Union, the Croatian Academy Sports Union and to be present at schools, sports clubs and to share their rich experience with all those young people who want to play sports, at the same time to participate in projects of the Croatian Ministry of Tourism on the project that they themselves presented as the project "Follow Me to Croatia" and thus continue to be present in the international promotion of Croatia. This way, at this point in time, according to our estimates, we have 202 athletes and athletes who meet the proposed conditions. 86 of them are Olympic medal winners, 70 world championships, 8 Paralympic medal winners, 38 medal winners at the deaf Olympic Games. The maximum fee is 100% of the average personal income. It's 5464 kuna, the smallest is actually compared to the world championships of 2185 kuna. All of these athletes will be obliged to submit a request after which they will conclude with the ministry a contract that will regulate their obligations, which will primarily concern their active participation in the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee, the Croatian School Sports Alliance, the Croatian Academy Sports Union and the Ministry of Tourism. The total estimated amount provided in the state budget is 14 million 468 thousand 759 kuna. Compared to the first reading we had here in the Parliament and after discussions in the Parliament and on committees, we also introduced a few new amendments, and I especially highlight them. Therefore, on the proposal of parliamentary representatives, the provisions governing the restriction of membership in the assembly and the executive body of sports associations and national sports associations have been amended so that, in accordance with the amended provisions of the Assembly and the executive body of the sports association and the National Sports Alliance, they may also be authorised to represent and persons who are members of other sports clubs, associations for competition of the same sport, persons who are part of the sports society of the same sport, persons who are members of the body, or persons authorised to represent and manage the tasks of the authorised body or on the basis of the general sports acts of the club, the association for competition of the same sport, and persons who are members of the body of the sports share society of the same sport. By accepting Mrs Jadranka Kosor's proposal, we have amended a provision laying down criteria for granting a permanent fee for athletes so that the new proposal prescribes that the right to a permanent monthly fee cannot be achieved by a person who is legally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for the offence committed. In the first reading there was a year of punishment, here we completely excluded it on Mrs. Kosor's proposal. It is important to stress that the provision on the financing of sports is complemented in such a way as to prescribe that the financing of sports by the Republic of Croatia units of local and regional (regional) self-government and the City of Zagreb is possible in accordance with the provisions of this law if it has an effect on trade between the Republic of Croatia and other EU Member States if it is in accordance with the rules laid down in Article 107. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, which has led us to resolve the issue raised in the public what now that we have become a member of the EU. We have also complemented the provisions of Article 81 on how to lose the right to a permanent monthly fee. And another change concerning the method of accounting related to fees and tax burdens involved. Thus, this law represents the completion of the changes in the system of sports where we introduced order by the Law on Sports Inspection and dried up the beginning of the depletion of the swamp that Mr. Boric spoke of. We have very concrete results and at the end of the year we will report everything that the sports inspection has provided to ensure that in the sport we will always be athletes in the first place and only in the end of the year, not individuals living at the expense of both sportsmen and athletes. I ask you to support this law because it will mean a lot to promote sports and encourage young people to deal with sports to an even greater extent thanks to top athletes who, I repeat, are truly the most famous and successful ambassadors of Croatia in the whole world.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46111	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament want to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the SDP club and the esteemed representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46112	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here today we have before us representatives on benches a proposal to amend the Law on Sports and that is what Mr. Minister announced in the second reading. The day we all vote for this law together will be a big day for Croatian sport, but especially for all hardworking athletes and athletes who have invested their time in training and competitions to achieve the top results in the great competitions on the pride of all of us. Croatian athletes are actually the only ones who manage to nail the television screens of the entire nation with their medal fights, their performances for the Croatian flag. We're always particularly proud of their successes, welcome them to airports and read about them in newspapers, but soon we forget their successes, but also of them as humans. And that's why I, as a athlete of a neo-Olympic sport without a shred of jealousy or envy, can say that this proposal is a change in its intention and good and therefore needs and supports it. I am also pleased that the promoter has adopted some of the remarks from the first reading, and this proposal today is even better and more complete. The comments of the Committee and the expert sports authorities on membership in sports organisations have also been respected and further corrected the original impression of the proposal. However, the most objections were to the so - called so - called. categorisation of sports involving a system of lifetime awards to worthy athletes. Some have pointed out that some of the items of this proposal are discriminatory because they do not include many other medal winners in non-Olympic sports and world championships. We have to be honest and admit that the definition of sport has not changed much over time and that there are still old Olympic maximum athletes living amongst them, but that's why the perception of what we have today has become sport and competition. While individual classical sports disciplines such as athletics have been established in ancient times, many collective games such as football, handballs, basketball and so on have been added to them during the 19th and 20th centuries, we also have a whole series of disciplines that are also required of competitors to prepare, concentrate, long-term training and invest in their own development, such as automotiveism and the like. But the promoter and we ourselves need to draw a line somewhere and I think it's right, first of all respecting tradition and Olympic principles. Some sports may stay out of the reach of this law, but what is particularly important is that this law sends a special message not only of 200 athletes and athletes who will receive recognition in this way but also of the entire sports community that in Croatia finally and athletes have their own ministry and their minister. Also our sports audience, viewers, sports fans who are the easiest to raise awareness of their patriots by cheering for the Croatian team, athletes and athletes can be satisfied because the intensity of this law is gratitude to athletes and athletes for their country's excellent representation in the sports arena. But the minister also announced in his first reading that he is in the making of a strategy that will especially evaluate athletes regardless of whether they are in Olympic or non-Olympic sport. Many have also objected to the age line of which athletes and athletes have the right to benefit from the privileges provided for by this law. One is that it is too late and because of efforts made in training at that age of 45, they have not been active athletes for a long time, and the other is too early, given that all other citizens make their pension at the age of 65. It seems to me that the proposer has rightly guessed here because he has also taken into account the fact that many athletes are starting their journey already at the age of 5 to 8 of their lives and that they are investing additionally in their sport development while others are sort of resting. It is true that in some sports there is faster fatigue of material, the decline of sport potentials in achieving good results especially in individual sports, but the age limit is there to show the line again and clearly define the proposal's intention in this law. It is also important to mention the ongoing annual revision of the exercise of this right in order to avoid all abuses and it is good that the applicant has incorporated it into the law... Athletes that with judicial powerful criminal convictions they cannot be the bearers of these rights, which sends a message that sport must be a promoter of honesty and fair play. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think that the amendment is well and thoroughly done, that it is good for both athletes and the sports public, and that this law will finally promote the country's fair attitude towards sports and athletes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46113	Thank you, Your Honor. The Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Mladen Novak are on their way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46114	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Your Honor, Ministers, if you and I sing together, not here normally, but at a sports resort, will whoever looks at this song be able to conclude from our pride, our position whether Blanca Vlasic just skipped 210 cm and broke the long-term record of Stefka Kostadinov or will it come to the conclusion that I do not know Sandra Perkovic has moved the world record into a drive-throwing or will it come to the conclusion that Mrs. Perman won the third gold medal for Croatia in bowling? Let's remember more of those famous people who won world medals in neo-Olympic sports. Is that, uh, that anthem that played for our athletes back then, did it cause any less pride with us than when she played anthem for those athletes who were in Olympic sports? Minister, even though I've given full support to your bill on this one without a fence, I say it's discriminatory, that this is discrimination against a certain group of people and that it's in some way even degradation. Let's think of those who used to play sports, and I believe they've all tried at least once, how much they're asking for it. Now, even if you're doing all this work at the firm, even if you're doing shift work, so if you have to look for replacements in order to even go to some competitions, so if you don't have God's help in these competitions, you'll experience what kind of injury the first thread will be to you equal to these top athletes, and surely your financial fiasco will be huge. Because you have to go to sick leave, because you have to bear the costs of treatment that aren't common and on the other hand I don't think this law is equal to everyone. I have to mention people with disabilities. These people's world championships are still less important, less important and the results of these world championships are not included in this bill. I also don't think that's right, that it's not right, and that even in my opinion it's supposed to react to this, I don't know, maybe it's an attorney for people with disabilities. This 81st article, which I immediately, 81st, in fact, immediately started the debate with, is called the state medal winners' awards at the Olympics, the Paralympic Games, the Olympic Games of the Deaf and the World Championships in Olympic Sports and Discipline. The minister mentioned it wasn't about pensions. It is not about pensions exclusively because it is not paid out of the Peace Fund. Just don't forget that pensions don't pay off exclusively from the Peace Fund. On the one hand. And on the other hand, if someone is exercising the right to permanent cash compensation, do I not know if any other expression is more appropriate than retirement? Years for a condition, as a condition for the exercise of rights by this bill, are 45 years. The Croatian Labour Club, i.e. I have sent an amendment where I fully respected Mrs. Perman's opinion and presented it as such in the amendment although my personal opinion is to make a difference? Do you think the employee who worked on some other 45-year-old jobs isn't as ragged as the one who played some top-notch sport? By the way, the one who's engaged in top-notch sports is usually good and charged for it. If he's not in those neo-Olympic sports, then he's not here anyway. I think it's fairer if we're already talking that we're not going to explain why some proposals were rejected, among other things, there's no discrimination against certain athletes or types of sports, so then I don't think that we should even discrimination against the other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, even now I've got something on my mind right now so that we can get even with everyone else and the MPs have come out on their own with a proposal to abolish privileged pensions. To be equal with your people. So what makes a certain group, if I'm not wrong with 202 athletes, separate from those other athletes who may have won the same gold medal even in some sports, is the European Championship of Kudikamo is stronger competition than the World Cup. For those of you who are good at sports, give me a water polo, is it stronger competition at the European Championship or at the Olympics and the World Cup? Don't forget, you have a quota there that must be filled with some exotic states, and then you have these strange scenes for people to drown in malts and not play water polo. It is also in handball where the European Championship Kudikamo is stronger than the Olympic Games or the World Cup. So I think if we respect that already, and some specifics, then we should also rule this out and put it in that category. Minister, last year at the 7th month, so about now, about a year ago, you announced the entire Sports Act. Here you have just announced him last fall. Now it's one year from that announcement of yours, I hope you don't think that this is some kind of complete amendment to the Sports Act and that there's more to be done here. I invite you to give up this after all, to withdraw this law because it is really part of discrimination against certain groups and athletes and people and to make a whole sport law that will make us more concerned about the financing of young athletes, those athletes who are still at school age. Because today we have a situation that if parents are wealthy and are able to financially enable payment and membership fees and all the equipment needed for individual sports then these children can engage in sports. Otherwise, these children are left to their own life organization, free time, and then we're surprised that we have more and more excesses, more violence amongst young people, more and more escapes to vices. I think it would be a whole sport law that would find a way to finance and that part of the youth sport would solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46115	Thank you, Your Honor. One replica, respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46116	Thank you very much. So, colleague Novak, you asked yourself, is this law discriminating against top athletes? Yes, we have already discussed this in the first reading of this law because it recognizes only the Olympic Games as a criterion or sports as a criterion to which it should be given, world championships and that is it, but in Olympic sports. We recently had Mediterranean games, here recently completed in Turkey, 27 medals, of which 11 gold. If someone says in this society or in this House that Leo Brnic is not a top athlete because he can hit 47 bottles in 5 minutes at 10 meters I don't know who we're lying to, himself or everyone around? And he's gone because he's pathetic that he can't get on the Olympic sports list. Mediterranean games recognize 25 sports, Olympic 30. But the Mediterranean are specific that they recognize the bottle, and that's our sport and bowling they recognize. They don't recognize hockey on the grass, like. And now we take it as a fair criterion. Neither is he fair nor all the top athletes who are also responsible for the promotion of Croatia, which won 110 medals at the Mediterranean Games, are clearly recognized by Croatian anthem for their success wherever they were held. But we really want to say these Mediterranean games in some town, and a couple of times, then it's important to us. I think this law is discriminatory because it either doesn't want to find any extra money, and there aren't a lot of additional athletes there if we respect a few more sports, or a little bit adjust the criteria. But we have to wait for how we hear the strategy, so when she recognizes bowling and bowling, then she'll be allowed. I think at first it only went to one group that in this case I say goes much better than some others.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46117	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46118	Thank you very much. Coli Boric, if I remember correctly, won the gold medal in badminton. Now we're going to experience that the World Olympic Committee may not know which is the most American sport there is because in our world, it's a trend in the Americanization of everything and we're going to have baseball and we're going to have none of the sports that are literally exotic in Croatia. But we won't have those sports, let's say very likely wrestling will fall out. The way things are now possible. I don't see logic in that. I'm one more thing, now with your discussion you've reminded me, I forgot to tell you about the property censorship. And those players who have achieved, or competitors who have earned a career in the world, who have paid taxes in some tax havens, through this law, will exercise the right. We leave it to their conscience whether they want it or not. But on the other hand, those who used to separate here and who were dealing with semi-amateur or amateur sports here did not deny them in the beginning, even though they won world championships three times, even if the Croatian anthem played on their behalf, raised the Croatian flag. No, we deny it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46119	Thank you very much. It is up to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Jadranka Kosor and Croatian Civil Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46120	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. I agree with Mr Novak's debate earlier that it would be very good and very important and very important for all of us today that we have discussed the entire Sport Act, but since we are not on this occasion, I believe that at least by the end of the year we will be able to open and close this debate. So let's discuss what's ahead of us. Certainly on such occasions when we have amendments and additions to the Sport Act on the table in the Croatian Parliament then we talk about sports, we worship athletes to all those who have named the Republic of Croatia around the world. This is very important, I think that even these days when we were entering the EU we had opportunities to see on various televisions the contributions that reminded us of the successes of Croatian athletes from the independence of the Republic of Croatia to the present day. And all of us who have traveled somewhere know that whatever part of the world you come to when you meet people and say that you are from Croatia then many react and Shuker, not Ivan Shuker, but the other part, but I believe that many parts of the world remember this fellow of ours Ivan Shuker. So it's a fact and it speaks of the importance of sport which is certainly often much more times than a game. And that is why all efforts should be supported precisely because of the importance of sport for society and for the whole country. All efforts should be supported to return the sport to athletes, fans, to remove themselves from the sport and to tell them not forever and to the lepers and the discriminators and the haters. And that's one process we'll all be working on in the long run. I'm going back to the bill. Mr. Minister, very specifically a few remarks and a few suggestions. Thank you very much for accepting some of the remarks I made in the first reading, but here if you would like to accept them until the end. So, above all, regarding Article 1 where the Assembly is referred to as the executive body of the Sports Federation and it is said who cannot have authority in representation. Among other persons who have been fined for crimes or sports offences for the past three years and in relation to sport. So, in the last three years, what about years ago? So my proposal is then to absolutely eliminate all persons who have ever been punished for crimes or sports offences at any time or in relation to sport. That's the only logical thing. So, anytime, not just in the last three years, because if we let those who were once punished stay, I repeat for crimes or sports-related offences, then it will leave those little gloves where the swamp will be re-created. The proposal is therefore to delete this part of Article 1. And now with the state recognition, it's my opinion that it's going to remain a big dilemma forever and that we're going to have a constant dispute over what these confessions are? So they're not pensions, when you look at how much they amounted to a month ago, for example for gold medal winners, they're nice receipts, of course, as a colleague said earlier, we left it at the will of those who won, that is, thanks to their sports successes, they earned big money, they reported it, they didn't report it, they didn't contribute to the state budget, they didn't contribute to it anyway, so they get that amounting to more than 5,000 kuna for gold medals. So it's open to a series of questions, certainly when we look at the structure of the RH budget today and how it was yesterday and when we look at what percentage is set aside for pensions and when we know that some 17, 18 billion or 19 billion for pensions are collected, and that the rest of the 20 billion we have to move out of the state budget then we should definitely put it in this context regardless of what is going on in this case about 200 people of the Republic who have won some medals. So in that sense, I think it's necessary as it was necessary to leave the censorship. So, in the end, we need to know what the incomes of that sportsman's family that will get that money, which is a confession, which is the reward they deserve. Surely this can encourage many young athletes to continue to work hard and hard, to give up, but the criteria must be as clear as the year. Years of life to which such confessions can be obtained. 45 years is not enough. So, if anything, I suggest 55, 60. However, there will always remain doubts and discussions will be opened as to why athletes are not then even with other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that, unfortunately, can lead to a debate that will cause those we worship to suffer criticism because of their successes. And I think the law we're making must do everything possible to make good intentions, this really good intention, not turn into its opposite. So, years of life, censorship, and now one of the conditions for such a reward, such recognition is that the athlete is not legally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for the offence committed. So that's the new formulation now. So I suggest that the formulation if it should be that it is not condemned at all. Because if there's a athlete who's been convicted of some crime, whether or not it's an unconditional sentence of prison, parole, etc. it should not be rewarded by the State, i.e. by taxpayers. And at the end of the day, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment, so I'm still assuming that the motionor will accept himself and the amendment on behalf of the club refers to Article 4 where it is said which athlete can receive that state recognition. Among other things, says one who won the World Senior Championships in Olympic Sports and Medal Discipline. The proposal is to bring in paralympic sports here with the Olympic sports. So the Paralympics who won the medals at the World Cup so they could get that state recognition. I have also consulted today the Croatian Paralympic Committee and their information says it is four such athletes. At the moment that there are four such athletes, so I suggest that Mr. Ministers accept this amendment means that paralympics, or athletes of people with disabilities who won medals in world championships, also get this state recognition. There, these are fundamental remarks. Of course, the reason is that the law will apply from June. We're late, but I don't think it's the Ministry's fault this time because the ministry sent another law reading to June. Here's what we're discussing in July is not the Ministry's fault. Therefore, the argument will ultimately not change because it no longer needs to be changed because we will conclude today's debate but should certainly bear in mind the moment when the law will apply that those funds that are planned for this year will be even smaller, and that is another argument more to accept this amendment. So, even paralympics, world medal winners have the right to state recognition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46121	Thank you, too, Your Honor. We have reports of replicas. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46122	Dear colleagues, Kosor, I fully agree with you in the law, it should stand out that he is not convicted. So, not conditionally, not unconditionally, but not convicted. It is clear to me that the Government should have drawn the line somewhere and that it should have taken some criteria by which these fees, rewards, stimuli would be shared. And at first glance, the criteria of Olympic sports seem quite acceptable. However, I agree with those parliamentary MPs who said that some Croatian under the quotes of "Croatian" sports should be included in the law, such as bowling. I agree with the findings of those who, you spoke of, should determine the property censorship. If we strive to be a fair society, to be a solid society then it's certainly not fair for a athlete who kept an account out in foreign banks all the time, in cash oasis dealing with individual sports, who was receiving millions of benefits that because he had no conscience receiving 5 thousand kunas or 4 thousand kunas for the rest of his life. It is absolutely certain that human society will not do so and that property censorship should be respected and that I should also agree with your proposal that paralympics who won medals at world championships are also covered by these fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46123	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46124	Thank you very much. Yes, my colleague, I think this is very important and I believe that the minister will respect our observations, or our thoughts. So why is it important that someone who is a top athlete but has never sinned against the law is the only one who can receive a fee? Because athletes are a role model for young people. So, if someone is a role model and someone attracts young people to practice sports, that's a great way to fight all forms of addiction first and foremost. So that person must be a role model in every sense. And the role model can't be someone who's convicted of any act, any act because that's the case. As far as censorship is concerned, I think it's extremely important because the censorship will enable, or the censorship has allowed us to extend that circle of athletes who have the right to these state recognitions here and to the conquerors of the world's Paralympic medals. I repeat, there are now four that are excluded from this if we turn the censorship on. Because with all this, someone who finally has accounts abroad so he cheated on his country, so he cheated on Croatia, then he doesn't deserve that recognition. It would be absurd, for example, if someone were to use these 5 grand and a little bit more kuna, for example, for example, weekly coffees because they were provided with existence, and someone else didn't know how to travel to the next competition because they didn't have enough means to transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46125	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46126	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Kosor, I agree with your debate, and especially in that part, I think it is nice when the Croatian state is recognised by athletes, sports successes and gold medals. It's better than being considered a country of high corrupt risk. We hope that this is the past for Croatia and that we will only be recognized for the good and for these successes of our athletes. I therefore support your proposal in this Article 1 to remove this time limit for 3 years, so if they have not been sanctioned in the last 3 years for criminal offences. I think that three-year-old should be thrown out. So, if they are even punished for any acts related to sport, they should not be found in these congregations and executive bodies. Moreover, in the case of these conditions referred to in Article 81a, any judgment shall also be deemed to be a powerful or inadmissible act. Such persons should not have any contact with any state rewards, and if there is a particular interest and promotion of the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, then it cannot be a reputation it is a lack of respect, it should therefore be placed as a restriction. I also agree completely with you, and given the number of people for the Paralympic Sports, it's only four people. This does not require some large financial expenditure for the state budget but certainly gives a strong contribution to the people who won these medals because I believe they should and have invested a lot more physical and psychological effort to get to that medal. That this should be rewarded and that space should be found in the state budget and that, therefore, Paralympic sports are awarded this highly recognised state prize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46127	Replicate response, distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46128	Thank you very much. Col. Salapic's 3 years of impunity concerns participation in congregations and the executive bodies of sports alliances. So, that's more, there should be additional concentration and be very, very determined in making decisions because it's about people who actually dictate a pace sport in different sports and then it can happen to be someone for example. Sentenced four years ago for some crime that is related to sports because it is limited, so it must be related to sports, and that four years ago it is condemned and that it can now actually make the fate of that sport and those athletes. So I think it's one logic that doesn't need to be specifically explained. And as for the Paralympics, so the sportsman with disabilities is absolutely safe and that's the trend in the world, look at openings, for example. The Paralympic Games last year were in London as well as the Olympic Games, so today the world pays the same attention because the gold medal won at the World Cup won by the Paralympic, so the person blind, with no legs with different kinds of restrictions in everyday life, is at least as bright and as bright as the medal it achieves, or wins a healthy athlete. And in this sense, the state must really show that it cares about each other equally. Because getting to the world top and being a person with disabilities really requires both perseverance and will and strength, but also the support of society.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46129	Thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. The HDZ club is next in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Sunčana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46130	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Although the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports does not cover and does not solve nearly all of the crucial problems that sports and athletes presently face, even though some athletes are exempt from the fees provided for in these amendments and additions, I will say that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this proposal. I'm glad you respected the HDZ Club's proposal from first reading by changing Articles 46 and 47 where you sort of corrected the mistake you made last year where you intended to make it impossible for individuals to act in sport to create a situation where almost no one in the field of a sports branch can be a member of the Assembly and executive body of the Sports Federation and the National Sports Federation. So, for example. It was foreseen if someone was a member of a club’s congregation who could not at the same time be a member of the body of sports alliances and vice versa, and representatives of the sport that work at sports clubs are generally elected in the congregations. What I would like to remind you of is the unpreparedness and superficiality of the applicant in the preparation of the amendments to the Sport Act, so in 2012 you inserted changes in the last second or such a flight change you had before the proposal came to the Parliament so that nothing from the public debate was visible, or in the text of a draft proposal on which other ministries and bodies gave an opinion. Article 74 relating to the terms and conditions of sport financing, which adds the third paragraph, which states that the financing of sports by the Republic of Croatia units of local and regional self-government and the City of Zagreb is made possible in accordance with the provisions of this law if it is in accordance with the rules on state aid. Of course, the financial stability of clubs is a basic prerequisite or stability of the sports alliance for successful work and progress of its members at any time we talk about individuals or clubs, and we also witness that today the lack of money unfortunately in clubs facing a lack of money fails to compensate for sponsorships or donations and that we can hardly expect that the system will be able to function in the future. If we touch comparisons with both eastern and western neighbours, we will see how much we unfortunately lag behind them at all levels and how the successes of Croatian athletes, which my predecessors have spoken about, have been largely or to a large extent, the result of talent, above all great love, pawnage, desire, effort, and, unfortunately, too little success of the system and organisation. As regards the support for this amendment, you have either made it on request or following a warning from the Competition Agency. The question of state support in sport has been raised as a problem at EU level only recently, and in the Republic of Croatia more intensively. I will remind myself of this only started to talk or create some public fama about the recent application of unlawfully granted support to a football club, so I will only say that this was put out of force and that the opinion of the Competition Protection Agency was expressed that everything was still okay with the aid. An important emphasis in the decision of the Competition Agency is also the 1st of July since the European standards of behaviour in sport were commanded by Croatian laws and I will remind you of the presidential verdict of October 2012. Sports clubs will also be controlled by the EU Commission when it comes to state and local public support. That is why the proposer is suggested during the first reading to plan a system of financing in sport after our accession to EU membership because professional sport must not be financed from the 1st meeting and that the proposer should address these changes or changes and install them in the law with the EU acquis. Since this amendment has not resolved the key issue, now that we are a member of the EU, we are obliged to harmonise the law, where we have not brought it into line so far. With a high level of security, we can say that professional clubs will be banned from receiving support from local first team management units so that this money will have to be directed at youth schools and similar projects. I ask the question, is such a situation going to produce and manage dual accounting when the money is supported or the money from support would not be poured into the salaries of professionals, so what does that really mean? The question is further raised, apart from the change in the sport financing system, changes in the event of the stadium use, as only 17% of private-owned stadiums are in Europe so that clubs will have to pay for the stadium themselves. And if everything else is going to be treated as illegal support, that's another open question. Just by the way, I'm going to remind you that we have a big ownership problem and that we have a big problem assessing the value of sports infrastructure that we have spoken several times on the board and warned about it, and last year, one study has just been completed, and that's exactly how the answer has given us a complete or good record. In the opinion of the President of the Competition Agency, clubs will be able to receive support of up to 200 000 euros a year, and beyond that everything will have to be in line with the legislation on state aid, in other words, this issue is still quite unclear, given that neither the EU has a clear definition of what can be considered a professional sports club as well as which sports clubs are also entrepreneurs within the meaning of the State Aid Act. For example. Most of us, if not almost all professional clubs in written professional sports clubs were updated last month on the Ministry's pages, could not be said to meet the conditions that they could be considered entrepreneurs. A far bigger problem seems to me to be that this is a subject treated in the EU and based on broad criteria, based on applications, and each case is being considered separately where it will be assessed whether the clubs have violated or not by using support. So no such decisions are yet to be made, so we cannot talk about some practice that we would take from the EU, and therefore the ministers are expected, I expect that from you, of course, clear instructions from all the participants by the relevant ministry that they can comply with the law and that they can also plan their budgets because we see that clear instructions are not available and we hope that they will get an answer to this question from the ministry. As for fees, we also said this in our first reading, and we regret once again that we are late to make such a decision because sport is a living organism and some sports at global level are growing, so for example, the International Olympic Committee decided that in 2020, at the Olympic Games, three sports will fall out, three sports will enter. Therefore, if the right to compensation should be granted, it should be based on criteria, for example. mass, distribution of tradition of individual sport in the Republic of Croatia and of course its importance at national level and similar. In the opening presentation or explanation of the final law, the procedure for the establishment of permanent cash fees to Croatian athletes is signed, the age limit is changed, and the property censorship we welcome is abolished because we have in some way pointed to this as a lack. I would like to point out that by setting the conditions for achieving the level of compensation associated with the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, perhaps it was not the most fortunate solution so as to achieve this goal through the sporter's fee, so it turns out that it may not have been primarily for the proponent to reward athletes according to the importance and value of its success but that it is still valued through the prism of the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia. The very notion of compensation that appeared and in the final proposal may not be equally fortunate. The fees are somehow linked when we talk about social benefits or social needs and other givings, and in fact the intention of this article is to reward athletes for excellence. I'm glad we stopped using the term sports pensions in the media because it's not. And we just have to say that the athletes came to their success and made it before the fee. So maybe it's not the happiest time. So these are rewards for excellence, not compensation. So, rewards to those people who have gone a very thorny way to their goal and success. I appeal to the promoter to reward athletes for excellence, not to give the state a fee to the athlete. But I believe this is how the law will still be passed. I will repeat once again that I am sorry that this award of athletes was not introduced earlier last year, when we changed the law we warned from the Croatian Democratic Community Club why it did not happen then. And numerous athletes would get their prizes on time. So in some ways, guilt or responsibility must still be taken over by the ministries. In addition to everything proposed by this Law, we are left with a solution to the questions of non-Olympic athletes who, as we have already heard, produce top results, who equally proudly convey the name of the Republic of Croatia in the world. They have a wide base, some of them and a base that will certainly recruit some future Olympic medal winners. But I sincerely hope that according to the strictly established criteria that have value at national level, this is very well solved, the International Olympic Committee has done it very well, so we have a model to deal with. And I'm sure we can expect a new package of sports laws soon. I'll just touch the one, so Article 81a, which prescribes three conditions. The conditions of impunity for athletes. However, the proposed provision cannot conclude which piece the athlete must not be convicted of, whether for all acts of the Penal Code or just sports, for which period. I don't think that's the happiest thing that's ever been accepted. It's not fully accepted. In addition to our athletes getting their fees for excellence, I think it's much more important to include top athletes in the active sports community in any way. In this way, give them a place in the society they deserve. And I think that in such a way, and not only by receiving support of such or such, that is, fees in this or that amount, they will be the best promoters of sport among young people. And that in this way will be much more active in achieving its role and not just through financial compensation. I don't think it's intended for athletes involved in this Law, but they certainly want to contribute to their knowledge, the rich experience they have gained in competitions, to pass on to younger generations. The Croatian Democratic Community club, despite these objections, will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46131	Thank you, too. It's the replicas. The first replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46132	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Glavak, you have well noticed Article 3 of this Act or Article 74 of the Old Law, which adds paragraph 3. The question arises whether he can resuscitate in Croatia at this time. For the simple reason that we have by no law clearly drawn the line which is amateur, which is professional sport. So, if we look at meeting the need to finance in Sport, which is financed by local self-government units, and this applies practically to youth... And youth categories, there's no definition of amateur sports either. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And no other law in the Republic of Croatia defines amateur sport. If we do not have a clear understanding of what is amateur and what professional sport, then it is very difficult to say that the Support Act can be applied to sports in the Republic of Croatia. Because apart from a few clubs, unfortunately, we have a mixture of amateur and professional sports in one and the same club. And if the sport hadn't drawn anything, and if it hadn't been for the best showing the case that before, say, 23 or 24 years ago, all of them were practically, most of those who would be using these fees wouldn't have the right to perform at the Olympic Games. Because in... In 88 they couldn't perform athletes who had professional contracts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And let's not forget, that's what I'm going to talk about in my individual debate because these athletes, unfortunately, no one thought of it. And only because they won medals in the former state. And they are Croatian, Croatians are Croatian citizens and top athletes. Let's just say a great basketball player, Nikola Pletzer, didn't perform at the Munchen Olympics just because it wasn't clearly defined how he advertised tea. So, the rules of the Olympic have changed and unfortunately we're pushing some rules and tomorrow we're going to charge that some thief is like this and like this and we haven't laid down the rules for him to play by.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46133	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46134	Thank you very much, Mr. President, you're a colleague of Shucker. You've said everything exactly. At this point in Croatia, we have 15 registered professional football clubs. Just imagine one thing, one of us has a handball, so we're taking what's available, so only the Handball Club Podravka and four basketball clubs. Unfortunately, we don't have a national strategy, that's what we're still expecting. It was said that there was a draft, so that there was a public debate, I hope that some of it still exists. And finally, what's the biggest tragedy besides mentioning athletes who won medals in the former state, unfortunately a number of athletes who would have the right to make these fees in the meantime died, that's what's saddest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46135	New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46136	My dear colleague Glavak, I didn't understand you very well, whether you're in favor of abolishing or not to end the property censorship, so you'll probably explain it to me in response. I advocate the introduction of property censorship because it makes sense if we want to be a fair, solid society. I fully agree that criteria should be introduced, precisely because of the lack of criteria, because of the collapse of criteria, we have destroyed many values. It's this negative selection, lack of criteria. What we haven't done in 20 years should start working now. I agree with that finding that's actually painful for you, which is that the successes in sports are primarily a matter of talent, and they're not systematic concerns about athletes and sports, and that's true. That is, the best example of your findings is the Kostelic family. We know the good things that they did at first as they climbed the pedestal of torment and only after they began to win medals and what had happened to them were the sponsors started, only then we as a state began to sneeze with their feathers. And I think it should be if it's the order to do what the minister said at the beginning, it seems to me, not maybe this time, but the last time we talked about sports, which is desecration, sports massage, as many people as possible to deal with sports. If this law will help to be absolutely certain that this law is plus, however, I say we need to establish criteria, several of you have mentioned the reasons why.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46137	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Vuksic, in no case at all, and this has been mentioned several times by athletes, we must not question social categories and they did not deserve it. When you mentioned the Kostelic family, I'll tell you another example, much closer to me, and you're right when we talk about it when sponsors start interested in someone. I'll remind you of our silver Olympic Philip Ude, then from Međimurje. Philip had no sponsors until he actually got to his Olympic medal, that he had been training for years since he was four, I don't know how much you know the city but there are colleagues here who know, so in the hall where he didn't have enough space for a run-off, so he did it from the toilet. So that's how this boy got to the medal for Croatia and we've already talked about it. So we can't talk about athletes just when they reach some level, when sponsors show up. We're talking about them when they're just creating their name and name, how much effort has been put into it, and that's why we can't put them in any social category. You mentioned a massage in sports, of course it's all about money, unless we're going to buy each bike or we're going to jog, so we don't need funds for it. So we must be aware that first of all, where budgets are cut, they are sport and culture, and we will hardly talk about mass unless we provide any kind of financial support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46139	Thank you very much. Please a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, please welcome the respected Ministers of Science, Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46140	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank you for the discussions so far, especially Mrs. Glavak, which has raised several questions that are both our guides and in the preparation of this law, and also in the proposal for a solution that will come from our ministry. We formed a task force, but not according to the old one when you don't know what to set up a commission. At the head of the group is Mr. Ratko Rudic, so someone who has both authority and knowledge and who can help us reach these solutions by the end of the year how to continue the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia. What is certainly important to say, I hope you noticed this in the budget, we, as Ministry of this year, have increased our funding to the Croatian Academy Sports Union and the Croatian School Sports Alliance just by wanting to massage the sport in Croatia and I think it is a great success and the Ministry of Science, but also Croatian academic sport, the city of Zagreb, the city of Rijeka, the University of Zagreb and Rijeka that we have received the hostage of European university sports games. These are games that more participants will come to than at the University, and it will cost far less, so it will not be a significant burden to realize these games. At the same time, it will be a great incentive for the development of academic sport in the Republic of Croatia, which we consider very important. Thus, in addition to this goal of oscillating sports, it will, of course, go into solving funding on a different basis than it has so far. This solution we have installed is on the trail of our obligation and you are right about professional clubs in Croatia, I think it is necessary to resolve the status of professional clubs differently, which is a professional club at all. That's what the Committee of Professional Clubs does to us. What I would like to say further, so in this strategy for the development of sports in Croatia, and we have developed an analysis of funding, one of the very important issues will also refer to fees. So it's not the 4 paralympics in the world championship, so it's not the money problem, we have to have clear criteria. We took the basic criterion of the Olympics. Paralympic games are the highlight of sports in the Paralympic sport, world championships are not. So there are scales, there are criteria, there are coefficients by which the criteria can be assessed. So we said that the criteria of the Paralympic Games, the Olympic Games of the Deaf, Olympic Games in general, are the world championships in Olympic sports, and that is what we are proposing now. The next step, I said that the last time we talked about this law, when it comes to fees taking into account the specificities of Croatian sport in a way that someone determines what sports are of national interest, and they are not Olympic sports and that those sports when we know clearly how they are crinkling, bowling or other sport, that they are also entering this fund of athletes who will receive fees. By the time we determine which sports are but not politically, not that this Parliament or anyone in the Ministry will determine, but just the athletes themselves, then these sports will have the importance of putting them in the same group with the Olympic sport exactly on the criteria that you said: mass, tradition, success, Croatian specificities, and then it will probably be the bowling, because we can't make a decision without criteria. Then why don't someone in darts get it or someone who's fishing underwater. So we have to have criteria. The only clear measurable criteria that no one can dispute at this time are the Olympic Games and the World Olympic Sports Championships which also represent a stronger competition than the Olympic Games on coefficient tables. That is why it was the reason why we proposed this, but we are thinking about how to introduce these other sports of importance to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46141	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. The first replica and respected representative of Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46142	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Minister, I see that the biggest criteria for bringing these categories of athletes are either to win or not to receive this permanent fee of financial censorship. Let's bring, let's bring this law to justice, in justice that we don't have categories of athletes in Olympic, non-Olympic sports, so if the financials8 is the problem that delayed that law and when the money will be applied enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46143	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46144	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you've actually touched a key problem in your final address, and maybe it's a problem that you as a minister can't solve for yourself, we're going to have to solve it. Also, athletes won't solve it for the simple reason everyone in the sport knows... and we can replay the last fight from the last Zagreb Sports Federation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, there is something we must learn from others. Let's say the International Olympic Committee made a decision that wrestling would no longer be an Olympic sport. Which are two countries to say so raised to their last legs – Turkey and Greece because it is their traditional sport. Therefore, we in Croatia have two or three sports, there are no table, which are traditional for Croatians to deal with. It's bowling and it's crinkling. And for a bottle, we can easily say that it's a sport of Mediterranean countries and no one else. So, four, five countries have top-notch bottles, and that's where the story ends and the bowling ends. Therefore, it is no problem for this decision to be inserted into such two or three sports. When we talk about the Olympic Games, only 20 years back, pictures of the Olympic Games and the idea of the Olympics were started by Americans who may serve everyone as an example of how sport was organised, where only university athletes performed at the Olympic Games. However, money and business have forced the International Olympic Committee to simply release professionals to the Olympic Games for reasons why the Olympic Games will experience financial fiasco. So that should be a criterion for us, too, when we're doing some things so we don't slave for something more, and I'm going to talk about it more in an individual debate, which has a certain legacy from the last state. We simply cannot forget top athletes, so at the end of the day, Ratko Rudic is a top water polo player who won medals in the former state and did not become a coach and that he has not practically returned to Croatia for the last years of his active coaching life he would not belong to this category, and you now highlight him as an example of someone who will participate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46145	Thank you very much. A new replica and respected representative of the Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you said part of it exactly when you were talking about the desire for debauchery. But I'll just remind you that it doesn't have much to do with the budgets if we bring them down to the local level. You're talking maybe from a national level where actually the funds come from those so we like to call them games of chance or lottery funds. But I also told you that we must give clear instructions to local self-government units so that they can plan their budgets. So that's what I'm talking about. And I'll just remind you that capital investment again at the local level makes up more than half the separation for sport at the local level. So what's it gonna be? Here are some of the problems that people expect as well for you from the ministry to give them clear answers and we're going back to what we've been warning for several years, and that may be the need to strengthen the Sports Authority. It's up to you, of course, and your associates have supported something like that several times on the board, so there's nothing against the present structure. However, to strengthen the National Sports Council, but also to strengthen the Sports Administration. I think we might find better solutions, and we'll see how it'll be solved when we get that National Strategy that we expect so much, and maybe some things will be much clearer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46147	Thank you, too. I continue to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's the HSU Club's turn and the Honorable Representative, Zeljko Schamper, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46148	Thank you, Mr. President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Sport Act in relation to first reading has made certain changes that have not changed the basic settings of the bill and the primary objective of the legislator of the law on granting state recognition to medalists through permanent cash compensation. No matter what they are called from where these fees will be paid, it is in reality about sports pensions after 45 years of life. There are no objections from some MPs or from the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities that there are elements of discrimination in law in the criteria on the right to the proposed cash compensation. As I talked about this proposal in my first reading, I will now express my opinion that giving it is not appropriate for the time we live in and that this is certainly not a problem that should be addressed at this time. At a time when every other pensioner has a pension under 2000 kuna, at a time when there are 120,000 citizens living in Croatia over 65 years of life without any compensation to me in order to say this in Podravina "fat geese we rub our necks" It is good for all those who have won excellent medals not only for themselves but also for their homeland. All of us who love sports, who looked forward to medals or grieved after defeat, cheered for them, for Croatia. I still don't think that's why it's proposed to amend the Sports Act. Today in the pension system of Croatia there are 13 types of pensions by special regulations or so on. The priority is close to 7 billion. And when today, the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, together with the National Council for Retired and Older Persons, are discussing and seeking solutions to pension problems behind which only part of the contributions paid are behind. We get 14 kinds of pensions on this proposal. Although it is not about the amount that can save the state budget or pension system, it is still something that is not a priority in Croatian sport. These days we have entered the EU, after 10 years of negotiations and the harmonisation of all kinds of chapters in our citizens' lives. This is not a European code law, is this what we do to us from accession negotiations? No, but we are still trying to do something that 27 EU member states do not have. But there is one Serbia that has already regretted because despite such excellent motivation by their athletes in London in 2012, they were not more successful than 4 years earlier. Russia has abolished fees, Germany has developed a system of education for athletes who for sport have neglected education for a life call. Italy, Slovenia, France, Spain and others offered jobs in Customs, Police, the military. Even our former athletes, medal winners aren't poor. Many of them are richer than sports alliances that have taken care of them throughout their careers. You could ask yourself who's more in debt to whom? Athletes to the state or state to athletes? The athletes probably did not forget the time when they were only young and talented and did not forget to use sports halls and stadiums for free, did not forget their coaches, all the preparation, travel, hotels and competitions. And later, they even received rewards, some apartments, or business spaces. All paid for by someone, all paid for by our citizens, pensioners. That's why we get a lot of calls, letters, e-mails from them today. According to many athletes well charged for their talent, made investment careers abroad, did not pay taxes, and now they came for pensions in their own country. And in the 45th year of my life. Unfortunately, among medal winners, depending on sports, Olympic or non-Olympic, popular or small, there are those who barely survive, receive social assistance and will retire when they are 65. And while we are often listening to recommendations from Europe on extending the age-limit for retirement to 67 years and by using pensions for less than 10 years these young people will use it for 30 years and on average 2.5 times the average of ordinary working pensions. In particular, athletes of neo-Olympic sports were disappointed, those who remained on the other side of the law despite world medals and world records. And in an activity in which there should be no injustice or discrimination in sport. According to any athlete who won the world medal in his sport, he is excellent by being among the 3 best in the world. It's not someone great just because he's from Olympic sports because every gold winner, regardless of sports, plays the national anthem, raises the national flag. And it is not true that it is only a great honor to win the Olympic medal and only in sports with the highest competition and the greatest importance. What an unfair division of popular and so on. We've seen small sports at the London Olympics. But none of the leaders and guests of our Olympic delegation attended the triumph of the golden Giovanni Cernogorca because everyone at the time encouraged our handball players. Who's to blame for shooting clay pigeons is an Olympic sport, and bowling is the oldest folk sport with a great tradition, in Europe it's not? I'm sure bowling balls and bowling balls don't. Although the Sport Act has already been upgraded several times, no one has ever imagined that the issue of amateurs and professionals in Croatian sports has been defined. While some have great professional foreign contracts, amateur athletes and medal winners deserve even greater admiration and thanks to the state for the way they came to them with everyday work, school, family and other obligations with very modest means. I will not mention the names of these amateurs again with many gold world medals, but it does so once a year the Croatian Olympic Committee in its announcements of best athletes, clubs and teams although these sports are not in the Olympic family but are still among the most trophy sports in the Republic. Despite all the remarks, it is certain that these changes will revive, that we will get the youngest pensioners so far, but what will this application look like in practice? Some of the basketball NBA professionals like Kukoč have already declared that these fees will be denied for humanitarian purposes, and this fee will not be needed by our great handball players, waterpolitics, tennis players, and property censors have been expelled from the law. We've abolished the retirement of MPs at 55 years of age, and now we're sending in young potent people former athletes at 45 years of age. Many previous medal winners today are coaches, sports workers in their clubs, in sports alliances, some are already in real working retirement and will now receive this fee. And in conclusion, which is why we can't support a law like this. First of all, we do not accept a new kind of privileged pension especially in the 45th year of life because we are sending the wrong message to young people. We do not accept discrimination against non-Olympic sports because it is an honor to win and be both world champion and world record player. We do not accept that users under this law without property censorship are professionals who have made foreign investment careers without paying taxes and contributions in their own country. If it's not a pension that Mr. Minister says let the ministry take them into working relations to the conditions for a regular pension. We in HSU have talked seriously about this bill but our presidency and our membership do not support such a solution. That's why the HSU club won't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46149	Thank you. Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46150	Mr. Shemper is difficult to agree with the many arguments you have made here, especially in this difficult economic situation. I'll just look back at one contradiction compared to the position of the HDZ club that said property censorship no, you said property censorship yes. I agree with you, a colleague from HDZ said that awards should not be a social category, please. I will mention some names that would have the right to this regardless of whether they gave up or not, I say that often in various situations consciences, it is Kukoč, Raja, Kostelic, Ivanišević, Šuker, Ciro Blažević, Ivano Balić, Štimac, Blanca Vlasic, etc. So what is it for them? It's under welfare, it's a triangle. So let’s not be hypocritical that someone asked not to be a social category. It is a social category, and I fully agree that athletes who have given a lot in sports in Croatia and cannot get a job, cannot feed themselves that on behalf of these thanks that the state takes care of their existence not to end up on the street. Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense to all this together that we're lying to ourselves about people who've gotten tens of millions, some more than that, quite certainly, that it's a social category and that they don't even think about it, some of them, like you said, Mr. Schamper, have already said that they're going to give it up. It is very doubtful and quite certain that it is also a moral question of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46151	The answer to the replica Željko Šemper or you must log in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46152	Thank you. We agree, Mr. Vuksic and I would very much like it to remain old in the law that the property censorship remains one of the criteria because we ourselves saw from those first statements when it started to talk about this law that our professionals who had achieved great careers and normally had charged it for their next generations, and if we count on how much they would get it, that's what you say to them, that they wouldn't get it according to the property censors we could solve all these other athletes and neo-Olympic sports because we believe and personally I personally considered myself present especially as to bowling here I am quite emotional. I've been with our bowling players and bowling players for 30 years at the World Cup Championships, the European League know how long it's been, how much it's been giving up, how much sweat it's gonna take to spend on the bowling alley, and how much art it's gonna be, and how best among those countries in Central Europe, of course it's not playing in Africa, but I think it should be evaluated because it's still our tradition. And as the minister says, it would be very good if criteria had been set and that all of our sports that have been appreciated have won world medals both as young and as seniors have entered these criteria and into this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46153	We're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, it's my colleague Nenad Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46154	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. If at the sports ceremony they were represented by certain athletes then it would look like this, athletes who contributed to their exceptional achievements to the reputation of Republic of Croatia Biserka Perman, Snježana Kramar, Nikola Dragas, world bowling champion Dinko Brakovic, world champion. Bowling and crinkling are not Olympic sports and they will not receive state recognition and a permanent monthly fee of 80% of the net average salary because this fee is reserved only for global achievements in the most competitive and important disciplines. They are not among 202 athletes who deserve such recognition because the criteria for the assignment are as they are. The legislator said in article 81a, a athlete who won the medal at the Olympic Games, the Paralympic Games, the Olympic Games of Deaf and World Senior Championships in Olympic Sports and Discipline as a state recognition for a special contribution to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia at their own request the right to a permanent monthly fee. Sharing athletes with the Olympic pears and apples and neolimpics is inconclusive and incorrect. Most often, neo-Olympic sports are either totally amateur or are not turned around by big money. The effort to achieve a top score is nothing less than the efforts that athletes make in the so-called "Sportsman". a top sport or as the proposer calls it with the greatest competition and the greatest importance. This effort is greater when we know that the sport is dealt with by amateur athletes who have daily obligations of school, work and others often in very modest technical, professional and financial conditions continuously achieve world results and thus repay the funds invested in them. And these grants are not large and are continuously reduced. The amount of the 2009 scholarship was 3150 kuna in team sport, in 2011 it decreased by 20% and today it is 1600 kuna. They are assigned by cities and municipalities in their territory. The world's single-success champion receives a 2400 kuna scholarship. The president of the state, the government, ministers, each time successful results are received by those athletes, award one-time awards as well as other athletes when they deserve it. They're equal there, but when it comes to granting permanent cash aid, there's no equality there. How small sports have been cut off from all sides of the story and the fact that the media is weak or almost unaccompanied by winning third place at the World Cup in Hungary this year at the 5th month. Sportsmen and professionals, along with our opportunities, have a large team of people who care about their diet, wardrobe, psychological and tactical, physical preparation, logistics and much more. In amateurs, that's not the case. By going to the competition they have to deal with the employer, replace and return shifts, don't let God hurt you go to sick leave. With their sports revenues they won't get rich and they don't have to tax... report the place of stay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Every athlete who won the world medal in his sport is excellent by being among the three best in the world. Every gold conqueror plays the national anthem and raises the national flag. Sportsmen who achieve world records and have such Jelica Pavlicic, Luciano Sušanj, in Olympic sports in athletics will also not get recognition of excellence, they did not deserve it. The promoter did not foresee awards for world record and he predicted 100% of the average net salary will be given to a athlete who meets the mentioned conditions for winning the gold medal, Olympic games, Paralympic Games and the Olympic Games of the Deaf. 80% of the average net earnings won for the silver medal, for the World Senior Championship Olympic Sports and Discipline won and so on, I'm not counting. No one can convince me that athletes who compete in non-Olympic sports have achieved exceptional results because world champions have not earned this lowest compensation for their excellence. It is the only thing that silver and bronze medals should be added to. Those fees would certainly not have increased too much of the cost assessment. There is a possibility that an athlete who deals with Olympic sports will shine at a certain point in his career, will produce a result in those who came, I saw, win and disappear from the sports scene. The Republic of Croatia granted a state recognition for its exceptional achievement as a special contribution from the Republic of Croatia in the form of a permanent fee when the conditions are met. A sportsman in a Neolimpic sport can achieve several titles of world champions and will not receive state recognition in the form of a permanent monthly fee because he competed in the wrong sport. Also, some athletes will break the world record in Olympic disciplines and will not get that state recognition. Athletes are not the ones who determine which sport will be broadcast on TV or which sport will be Olympic. Well, they shouldn't be sanctioned for that, and apparently they are. It's not fair and it's not fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46155	Thank you. And colleague Ivan Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46156	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the collapse of the Berlin Wall in principle has changed a lot in sport. Because until then the Olympic sport was treated one time, after the collapse of the Berlin Wall the Olympic sport got a completely different treatment. So I mentioned the Olympic Games in Seoul in 88 and 92 in Barcelona. So, with the performance starts with professionals in basketball through tennis professionals, etc. And why am I saying that? For the simple reason that the provisions of this Law are such that man cannot support them. He can't, he can get along with something or disagree. However, I still think that we need to talk today about some things that simply have to happen in sports. Because watch when you read daily, watch television, read on portals in newspapers, etc., there is no country in the world where there is no sport affair. For simple reasons, there's a lot of money turning around, where big money turns, there's a lot of those who want to hunt in the blurry. And it's something simple to look at as such. It is necessary to establish state institutions and models and ways to fight it and then the story will be completely different. However, we also must not forget in Croatia the early 1990s, the work and that athletes were the biggest promoters of Croatia at that time. So, the people who only knew the world at that point. Because we can talk as much as we want, any politician or businessman can drill into his chest as much as he wants, but one Drazen Petrovic and his protest in New York was worth more than anything. And not to say that the performances of the handball player in Zagreb when they were European champions of those years also made an immeasurable contribution to Croatia. So we have what we have, we're trying to do something. Now a fundamental question arises whether this Law actually achieves what we really want to achieve. So in this Article I mean, there's all O.K., but I can't figure out why the definition can't be and have the power to represent. If I can't be, then I can't be, then I can't even represent anyone. Turns each other off. Therefore, I think that, after the assembly, the executive body of the sports alliance can not be in there should be placed in and listed because they cannot represent anyone unless they are members of something. And as for this famous article 3 and this, in fact, Article 4 of this Law, there are many things and many questions to be answered. So some colleagues mentioned for sure that some winners of gold, silver and bronze Olympic medals and medals for the World Cup do not need any social assistance but unfortunately there are many athletes who are top athletes, who, for this reason or whatever, have failed to cash in on their sports skills. To be honest with you, being a top-notch sport and finishing school are just individuals, geniuses who have succeeded with extraordinary will, effort, and what God has given him and genes, from parents he has inherited the sense that he could have ended it. So a lot of them if they want to deal with top-notch sports, they just don't finish school and they're on the sidelines of society. And what I said, Mr. Minister, we simply mustn't forget athletes who won medals in the former state, but it's not clearly defined here, you know why, I'm saying this because this definition that someone can misread is maliciously, and it tells you this: Olympic sports as a state recognition for a special contribution to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia. It's something someone can misread to you. So you have collective sports in particular, and in individual sports by Croatian athletes, unfortunately Serbia has become legally following these medals and that is, but we can fight in a thousand ways that it is ours and that no one can take them away from us and if these people would exclude them from this, then we would admit in principle that these medals do not belong to us. And what you mean by the Olympic sport of colleagues and colleagues is the best example of football because you don't have top pros at the Olympics in football. First they were amateur clubs, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, they became players in fact very talented, young players up to 20, 21 years old, and if a country hosts as it was with England, try to do something and eventually lose, they sent some older players. So looking at these criteria and football players who perform at the Olympic Games then these football players who won the bronze medal in France wouldn't belong to that category because they're one football that isn't, and that football is not an Olympic sport, I think we understand each other. Although, for example, when you look at who played now for Brazil and England and Spain at this championship, all of them were young players who are now making transfers of 40-50m euros. So it's just about the stretchiness of the idea of Olympic, neolimpic sport and I would really Mr. Minister here go to these two traditional Croatian sports, it's a crinkling and bowling. We simply cannot ignore these two sports, and we can also say that only a few countries in the world play water polo, but because of the power of some of the other powers of the world in sport and the economy, it has fought for the status it is. However, bowling and crinkling are certainly sports that are in the feathers of Croatian sport, and we cannot say in that let's talk about crinkling then we can also talk about propaganda tourism. At the end of the day, tourist countries from the Mediterranean compete in this bottle, and I think they should certainly be taken into account for the simple reason why they simply don't need to be copied. I mentioned in my replica the reaction of the Turks and Greeks at the time when wrestling was said to be thrown off the Olympic sports list for the simple reason that wrestling as a sport of it simply by the attractiveness of Judo, generally exceeded wrestling simply by the disappearance of the Berlin Wall again because when you look at where the wrestlers were, Bulgaria, Turkey, Greece, the former Yugoslavia, the Soviet Union, Germany, there were wrestlers. You had something in America, and that was it. It was more political balance in sport than is really that sport attractive, but the judo is because of its attractiveness simply.... Just as you have some sports that have pushed some powerful countries, let's say hockey on grass is practically a sport in Croatia somewhere at the beginning, but when you look at who's playing that hockey on the grass, how many billions of people have those countries that are powerful, first of all Pakistan and India, so when you look at those in Europe, first of all Germany and the Netherlands, then you know why it's Olympic sport because they're fighting with their strength and status. So it's definitely something you have to do. I fully understand both the minister and all those who suggested that she couldn't withdraw the line regarding the property censorship around this part. So this fee has been introduced and in our neighborhood for the reason to help athletes who have ended up on the edges of society, have nothing to live on, to help them, and that includes those who have tens of millions of euros, who simply have made good money in their sports career and it's very hard to pull out, say you've made a lot of money, you don't have the right to do it, but you're a little busy, you have the right to do it. On one side of this you will-not all of us are mother-in-laws... and on the other hand most of those who have earned a lot will give up their share for something else, give for sport and something else and it can be solved. And another purely technical thing like this, Mr. Minister, no salary employed by legal persons, it doesn't exist, that term doesn't exist. I think it would be far better to have the average salary net in the Republic of Croatia or the average salary in the economy. But there is no term of net salary per legal person employed for the reason that you will have to provide money with yourself in the budget, and you will not be able to obtain this information from anyone because it is necessary.... So I'm asking you nicely that you or the government amendment change it, that it be the term it should be. So a law that will help athletes anyway. However, I still have one minute left, what is definitely to be solved in sport if we want to help sports and if we want good sport it is a fee in amateur sports. I spoke with my colleague, Deputy Minister of Finance, and we're trying to solve it in taxes, what is the tax status of that. So I will personally say when I was a minister we also changed the Law on Sports and Taxation as regards these professional football players, however, what about amateur sports unfortunately remains unarranged. And you get a little bit of money from the community of sports associations, you take some players, you pay him something, when you pay the tax you practically spend a lot of it without talking to the official authorities at the game, etc. I think the Ministry of Education and Sports should solve this together with the Ministry of Finance, and that way we'll solve a lot of awkwardness for people who deal with sports. So, an idea worth supporting but I think we need to bring all these other things to definitely those who have given the rules of play in sport. Because we can't start playing basketball and end up with a rugby then there's gonna be a lot of broken noses and a lot of downed heads.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46157	Thank you. Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46158	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Shuker, I'll start from the end of your debate. It's about helping sports. It will also depend on the preparedness of the resolution ministry to apply to the projects at our disposal. I don't know how much we'll manage to apply for example to projects... 2014/20. where almost 19 billion euros are available and precisely this project is intended to improve, educate young people, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Besides, I'll go back to something you said at the beginning and you said exactly. Let's not be hypocritical, let's not just pat on the shoulder of athletes when they come back from sports competitions with medals. They're not for painting. You're equally right when you say that some people have a hard time living, but I'm not saying once again they can't see it as a social compensation but they must and should see it as a compensation for their efforts, for their sports efforts. And what's really important is sports and in economic, social development I'm just going to remind the speeches and so on. The White Paper on Sports adopted by the European Commission in 2007. So, at all levels of society. Let's not look at sports just through those athletes who have big incomes, who have huge premiums, and above all here we all think about footballers first, football. So these are not the people to whom the provisions of this law apply, or those are not the people who will receive these fees. I just want to pull off the digression, Blanca Vlasic today thank God she's back on sports grounds again. But what if Blanca Vlasic doesn't give God more than next year won't be able to perform, if there won't be big sponsorship contracts then we can't be unfair and say she will have to wait until 45 years for her right to receive compensation or another number of athletes, Ivano Balic, etc. That's what I wanted to say in addition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46159	Thank you. Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46160	So, colleagues Glavak, I fully agree with you that this must not be any social aid or anything, but simply people must feel that they deserve it. However, we also need to know that unfortunately most of the top athletes after they stop playing sports have in a certain way ragged bodies and many of them have very high levels of disability due to severe injuries and all that, etc. But I'm saying it's just like that, but what's the real problem is that we don't have in one place as much as we invest in sports. If all units of local self-government were to be taken out of all units, how much money is being invested from the budget of the local self-government units to meet the common needs of sport, if they took this money that we get from the gambling stake for the financing of the Olympic Committee, so what Mr. Minister said has its own, then it's hundreds, hundreds of millions. However, top sports and top athletes are not without top sports infrastructure. Therefore, in this joint register, which will be able to withdraw money from Brussels, all participants should be educated in sport regardless of the position, from which they can withdraw funds to build that infrastructure. In the end, major sports competitions are organised solely to repair not only sports infrastructure but complete infrastructure. Take only the last Olympic games in London that have been made, take the Olympic Games in Athens, which has been made infrastructure and sports and infrastructure as far as the city is concerned. Therefore, we, too, need to use the student sports games that will be in Zagreb, Rijeka, to restore existing sports facilities for these games. Because in the end, unfortunately, the city of Zagreb from the University has practically not won by not counting the Arena any sports facilities, and without sports facilities we can't hope for either world or Olympic medals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46161	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46162	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Shuker, in your debate, it was noticeable that you had somehow brought these criteria in one way under the questionnaire because what really was the point of the provision that was something Olympic sport and, consequently, to exercise certain rights in view of the world championships. So we have players who were at the World Cup in France who didn't play for maybe a minute or played for 5 or 10 minutes and he's entitled to that fee, and these top athletes say they win medals not only at European and world championships in neo-Olympic sports like you mentioned bowling and bowling, that sport is not good. And now we're waiting for what the minister explained, we're waiting for the strategy to tell us because it's not a political act, it's a strategy and it's proposed by the ministry, it's proposed by a single policy. Now our strategy must tell us that bowling and bowling is our traditional and historical sport and then we have the right to put it into this law. It's like we don't know it and it's not politics. It's all clear and it's supposed to be here and I think that then a lot of debates would be different because we're unfairly top athletes not only from this country as you mentioned from the one simply because some changes have been left out, and then we're rewarding something that by the criteria can come as questionable, and that's five minutes of participation in some kind of medal that's not right for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46163	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46164	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46165	Turn on the mic, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46166	... the reasons, so just to show how stretchy that notion of Olympic sport is for reasons to say that certain of our traditional sports are to be found here. So, to help the minister in these kind of conflicts inside the athletes has the Parliament's support that he is pushing into those that everyone here has practically said is simply their place here. Because in the end, when we look at the Olympic Games, what the queens of Olympic sports were. It was athletic, so it was pure amateur sport, it was basketball, and it was swimming. They were queens and these martial arts that were unfortunately, but they were queens of Olympic sports. However, I say the fall of the Berlin Wall has changed a lot and simply this Olympic criterion which is an Olympic sport, see now that wrestling is thrown out and you will see who will enter instead of wrestling inside. You'll see that that American sport that runs with that racket that hunts the ball and then shoots it naked with that sport because of their popularizing it could be found very easily within 10 years amongst the Olympic sports list even though nobody's playing it alive except in America. But that's right. Just like baseball when you look at the practicals when you look at the Olympic criteria, it's sport for Japanese and some others, not Americans, because the best baseball players perform at the Olympic Games.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46167	And another Mladen Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46168	Thank you very much. Well, you just mentioned the best example of your colleague Shuker, Olympic sport is football. And now we can't say our football team isn't Olympic. She won third place in the Olympic sport at the World Cup. And now we leave it to not only those Kukoč and Dino Raja, and I don't know who's not mentioned, and now all those players who have made envious careers in foreign clubs who certainly have had a chance, and most of them I believe that they've materially secured themselves for life, some and for a few lives, and okay, no one's against some athletes, to get the right of worthy athletes. But the bitter taste of injustice that we leave out of those traditional sports of ours, on the other hand, we give a plate to people who really don't need it. I think that I believe even more in the sports spirit of these people that they will give it up themselves, but the paradox is that it is left to their will, to the goodwill of whether they want something or not, and on the other hand we prevent it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46169	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46170	And look, it's not good to pick up names, first of all, people who owe a lot of money. However, since I was also president of the Basketball League, and in this sport I have practically my whole life I can say that in that team that had the privilege of playing with the only Dream team in history there are several players who have not secured their lives, and there are some who have made a lot of money. Look, Tony Kukoc, Dino Raja, Stojko Vrankovic have a secure NBA pension, they don't need this, they certainly won't take it out of some pride and something won't take it, you understand? But this was simply to be introduced because of those people who were on the sidelines of society for one reason or another, and they can't live, but if we just put them in that category, that would be humiliating. And that's why, I'm a supporter of everyone being inside, to feel it as a thanks to society for something they've made extremely big for their country. And then the logical thing is the same, and I will fight as hard as I can to get involved in it precisely because of this tradition of Croatian and bowling and crayons and crayons because they simply belong there. And therefore, I see no reason not to satisfy it at all, but I say I am glad that this definition is for the simple reason that someone who was a proud knight in a sport, fought for Croatian colors simply found himself on the edges of society and if you just give it to him to help with something that is humiliating. And that can kill a man practically psychologically. But if this is something like this that belongs to everyone without a name and a last name with the criteria that the minister said here, can you expand the criteria for these two sports, you should see it, but the criteria are clear. They're clear, general and no one can get in the way of it. And that's good. So good because of those people, unfortunately, who need help. Because when you look at Kostelic, when you look at Blanca Vlasic, just another sentence, at the beginning of their career, no one wanted to give them anything. Once they've won the results, they can stick all the ski jackets you want them all to. But while they were starting, there was no one there.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46171	Minister Željko Jovanovic's closing statement. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46172	Thank you, Madam Vice President, thank you once again to all for the debate that has been quality, which has pointed to some of the dilemmas that exist, potential solutions and everything that should be done in the coming period to make the sport in Croatia even better, even better, and that, of course, begins with the expansion of the base and then will eventually produce top athletes from that pyramid base. Once again, please, I beg you, I don't know what to say anymore, these aren't pensions, these are fees or better to say rewards for excellence. Every athlete in Croatia at the moment he wins any medal wins a one-time prize regardless of what sport he was engaged in, and this is something that must be awarded according to clear transparent criteria at the moment. I explained these criteria, these are Olympic sports, Paralympic Games, Deaf Olympic Games and World Olympics in Olympic Sports. Because some World Cups are stronger than the Olympic Games, you mentioned football players, who can say that our bronze football players from France are not something that has passed the glory of Croatia around the world? I said at the beginning of today, I said the last time we discussed and I repeat again, so by the end of the year we will determine what is important for the future of sport, not for fees, which sports represent an interest in the Republic of Croatia. Not only when it comes to Olympic sports, but also about non-Olympic sports, because we don't have the money to finance everything. We need to define ourselves for some sports that have national importance for the Republic of Croatia and then invest more in them. Well, I'm the first one to have the bowling and bowling on that list because I'm coming from Rijeka where the bottles and bowling are something that grows from the earliest age. But you can't arbitrarily make a decision that it's just bowling or crinkling or something. Why don't you karate somebody'll tell me right away. Therefore, I suggest that we bring to the end of the year the exact criteria that are sports, karate is not Olympic sport, no, it's not nice, it's not a sport, so don't liquefy because you don't even understand sports. So Boris says someone who was a spare goalie, for example. In the handball he didn't deserve to be the winner of this fee, so without a spare goalie in the handball, you can't do anything. So let me finish. Thank you all for the discussion. Please support this proposal, and I promise here that by the end of the year, we will bring clear criteria for visibility, in importance, according to tradition which are still sports in Croatia which can, together with Olympic sports, be in a group of athletes who will receive permanent fees thanks to the achievements in world championships. It is done at this time about 202 athletes who include all athletes who have ever won medals and so in Yugoslavia and I hope that one of the first to receive that fee will be Ciro Kovačić from Rijeka, who is 90 years old and who said that his life wish is to receive the first fee, after he can die. I hope he doesn't die but he gets this fee very soon. Thank you all for the discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46173	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46174	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports, second reading, P.Z. No. 316. The debate on the final proposal of the Law is over. The amendments were submitted by Mladen Novak, a respected representative, Jadranka Kosor, a respected representative. I ask the Minister of Science and Education of the Honorable Željko Jovanovic to manifest himself. An amendment from Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46175	Thank you, Mr. President. Mladen Novak's amendment is not accepted from the reasons I have cited several times. So this recognition given to top athletes for sports excellence as an award for international promotion of Croatia and as an incentive to continue participation in the activities of all sports alliances, from school through academic to Croatian Olympic committees is awarded to the winners of the most brilliant medals in the Olympic, Paralympic and Olympic Games of Deaf and World Championships only in Olympic Sports and Discipline because these are clear, firm criteria that are not subject to arbitrary assessment which other sports should be in the category of these winners of state recognition. But the ministry has pledged to develop criteria for the categorisation of sports by the end of the year and assess what other sports are of state interest to Croatia so that they can also be included on the basis of sound criteria in this category of state recognition for excellence in sport in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46176	Thank you very much. The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46177	Thank you very much. I'll remind you of the details of the debate that was, this law is discriminatory. I just remind you that 4 athletes are world champions at world championships and in this detail this is really discriminatory law, but I also remind you that in the entire debate on one side and on the other, all the representatives agreed that there are these sports that we have to say in the category of Olympic sports. I think you're wrong, regardless of what you said by the end of the year, but I remind you that you said more about last year that we're going to get a full sport bill that we haven't won yet. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46178	I ask you to plead with me on the amendment of the honourable representative Mladen Novak, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to the amendment of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46179	The amendment of the club Independent Representatives-Jadranka Kosor and the representative of the HGS is not accepted for the same reasons as I explained Mr Novak's previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46180	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, the amendment I have proposed is absolutely in line with the spirit of the law in this section relating to state recognitions, or rewards, so the money to be paid to medal winners. So they are foreseen as those who will receive the prize medal winners at world championships and Olympic games. For athletes, however, paralympics, therefore athletes with disabilities are not meant to receive such compensation if only medal winners are at world championships. So at the Paralympic Games, yes, and no World Cups. My information that I've told you and when we discussed the law, from the Paralympic Committee, that would apply at this point to only four people, only four athletes who would have the right to receive that fee because the winners are winners of medals and world championships. You've made a difference between world championships of people with disabilities, athletes with disabilities and others. So if it really is a minimum amount of funds and if it is fully equalising paralympics and athletes who are not persons with disabilities, then I think you should accept this amendment and therefore ask colleagues and colleagues to vote. So at this point, it's only about four such athletes in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46182	Thank you, too. Please state the amendment of the Club of Independent Representatives of Jadranka Kosor and the representative of the HGS which the Government does not accept. Who's in? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 96 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 5 abstentions, passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46183	We will now discuss: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary school, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 433 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Introductory legislation will be explained by Minister of Science, Education and Sports Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46184	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here I hope you will endure another part of today with these topics that are fully in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. It is therefore about amendments to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools that we bring in order to comply with two EU and Council directives concerning the possibility of including the education system of the Republic of Croatia and the children of foreigners who are illegally staying in the Republic of Croatia. With these amendments and additions, we propose to prescribe the possibility of involving foreigners who are illegally staying in the Republic of Croatia in attending primary education if they are located in an acceptable centre for foreigners or are temporarily delayed or during the period of time specified for return. In addition to these amendments, we propose to supplement the provisions of the laws relating to curricula and the programmes for the adoption of experimental programme as well as the way and implementation of it in the educational system, in line with the contemporary needs of the child and society, and to create a legal basis for the adoption of a sublegal regulation which will make it clear that the minister will lay down the way, conditions, safety measures and the rights and obligations of the users and the service provider relating to that activity. With these changes, we want to bring our system into line with the best European practices and thus raise the quality of education and education. You also probably know about the initiative of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and the Ministry of Defence on the establishment of the Vukovar Memorial Centre, which will play a major role for not only the education of all of our students by the theme of the Homeland War in order to clarify more clearly how all these extracurricular extracurricular activities, excursions, excursions also need to be resolved by this law so that the Vukovar Memorial Centre can begin work already this fall. In the course of the public debate, therefore, a public debate was held, there were 48 indications from 47 institutions, institutions, organisations with more than 80 proposals, opinions and enquiries. Some of them are respected and are in this text, and during the debate in the government's procedure, there was a proposal by the Ministry of Justice in order to regulate a more quality issue and comply with the provisions of the Penal Code that came into force in the meantime. Here I am asking you to support this bill before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46185	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of HNS representative Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46186	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, respected ministers and assistant ministers. This is a good bill of law, and we'll be happy to support it in HNS so that right from the start there won't be any doubt. We won't even criticize him, but I will point out a few key changes and our opinion on it. What is also commendable is that this proposal also in the public debate process has experienced good and quality changes and that suggestions have been accepted, it is certainly something that should be applied whenever possible of course. As for attending primary school for foreigners who are illegally staying in the Republic of Croatia, of course it is in accordance with the directives on one side, but much more than that, it is in line with common with common sense and with some basic humanity and it is actually unusual and I am glad to change that we have not made it possible so far because the people in this situation are most often people in extreme life opportunities and very often are not at all their choice or only in part their choice. So the least one human society can give them is their youngest is the possibility of going to school while they're here and in that status they are in. As regards the adoption of interdisciplinary content and module, this is, of course, a key part of this Law and it is extremely important. It is extremely important because our life has become interdisciplinary and interdisciplinary in this way. And it's important that education reflects it. And that interdisciplinaryity and interdisciplinary should, in fact, become more and more of a rule in the future and less of an exception so that we can even adapt to the demands of society and the time in which we live. It's the same thing, of course, with the experimental program. All of this has to get more and more places. We are also in the debate today about kindergartens, about preschool education, this morning we mentioned this fact that we actually have a problem with learning outcomes, with educational outcomes especially at primary and secondary schools. In a small part, this Law must be a real step in the right direction. But I ask you therefore, with the repeat support of the CNS of this Law, that the ministers and your associates, in general, all together and at the head with you, pay attention in the time that comes precisely to these outcomes done. This interdisciplinary, this interdisciplinary, on skills and competences that we must give to education primarily to our children but not only to children, but to all those who are in the system and also to lifelong learning. To be able to be, I don't like to use the term competitive to people in that sense as if it were some kind of product. But in order for this education and the knowledge they acquire in our system to be competitive and applicable indeed in the world in which we live. Here, so much so that I don't last any longer, we don't waste any more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46187	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46188	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates. Well, I'm also going to shorten my debate because I see that I have to find out, unfortunately, after this whole day's education stay, there's really not much of a colleague here, so I'm going to shorten my debate. But those who are always persistent and brave to the end remain when it comes to education. I will not object to you because I remember our previous discussions on education and education in previous mandates, the other day I commented with my distinguished colleague Lugaric, however, on the education of the last week in July. But indeed always, here are today three basic laws of education and again in July. I thought about it and I had to say it at a time when ours, the Croatian Democratic Community led the government, was also wrong to me why it was always in July of a significant change, today three fundamental laws and here is the 9th of July. I don't want to talk about it. I did not want to replicate my colleagues to Coleman, but I must say, so far, we have found in Article 46 that asylum children can and must attend primary school in this law and that they must be provided either at a shelter, therefore in asylum or in primary and even secondary schools with the possibility of education. And really, as far as this first part is concerned, this is a alignment with these two directives, and we really don't mind. There are three more fundamental problems in which some, some concepts, some facts of this Law are being changed, and it is good that you have conducted a debate that lasted even seven days and that you have received so many quality proposals from the Minister. Because I saw that this proposal that came to the meeting of the Croatian Parliament was a step away from that proposal that was on the Ministry's website, i.e. which was offered for public discussion. And I believe it's a good thing that you've observed some remarks and haven't gone deep into the changes, especially as far as these, curiculum relations and all these newspapers are concerned, because it would cause major changes in the system and we know that we haven't done some more things yet. However, I must tell you that as far as this Article 3 or Article 27 is concerned, where an article of the current Law 27 introduces the concept of interdisciplinary content or modules, we really don't mind because, as Colman said, we also have to pursue these new ways of education at all. The system changes, the way changes, so we have to accept it. I believe that you have also received comments from the Croatian Chamber of crafts, which is how my first amendment is being led because they have warned that the first reading of the Law on crafts has just been completed and that we have changed there as regards vocational education as well. Therefore, those contents and those provisions relating to the professional theoretical and practical part of the professional curricula for tied crafts according to which, in this first reading, the Minister in charge of crafts shall, with the agreement of the Minister in charge of Education. Perhaps you should accept this amendment and include it immediately. Although it's a first-reading law. So, he's only in first reading but I believe there won't be a law on education and education in elementary and high school on the subject and on changes and additions soon. Well, maybe we should see that in advance. The second and next changes relate to a more detailed and detailed regulation of the adoption of an experimental programme. And it was necessary to bring it. It was necessary to really clarify the introduction of this experimental program and the way that what happened to us didn't happen to us, I won't mention more health education. So much for that health care education. But it was he who was thinking and some foundation for our second amendment. So we suggested that Article 4(4) delete, add the text and consent of parents to the implementation of the experimental programme. In the Constitutional Court's decision, if you remember exactly what health care was about, there was resented one of those objections that I will not say this ugly word brought down at all the conduct of health care and returned it to a public debate and everything, it was meant that parents had the right to decide on the education and education of their children, that it was a constitutional category in Article 63 of our Constitution, and that it was indeed necessary to consult parents perhaps through the parent council. That's what you might think about, about the council of parents that exist in schools. And I think that for the future, I won't mention I say health education but all those programs and those modules that are possibly on the questionnaire or because of some religious, secular, educational problems that parents are dealing with. If we accept this suggestion and this amendment so that parents still have to decide whether or not to accept any experimental program at some school. And this third next remark relating to clarification, regulation of ways, conditions and security measures and rights and obligations of users and service providers related to school trips, excursions and others as you have said forms of education that are possibly conducted outside the school. You mentioned this center in Vukovar. It's good, and we welcome it, Minister, that you've decided to handle it with the rules. Up until now, some of the guidelines have been addressed each year, some have not. And it was really in the practice of a mess about it, and it's good to get rid of it with a rule book. But please, since this law will enter into force in eight days from the date of its adoption, you have foreseen the adoption of this regulation in six months. I appreciate that this is one period and that the Ministry of Education is buried. No one can understand that, but I believe that it's one of the ministries that has the most and the most problems, which it has, and the most I'll say the job, and where there's always something going on because it's such a system of education, here today from preschool to science and higher education. But please, and I have seen now that my colleague Salapic has given the amendment, he has proposed 90 days. In my amendment on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I have proposed an amendment to bring this Regulation into force within 60 days and I have said in an explanation of why. We all know that these activities are part of a school's annual work programme. The school's work programme is due by the end of September of the current year for the school year. So, I know this will apply to regulations, to implementation, in ways, but I think everyone at school should be familiar with what that regulation is going to bring. The law will come into force, so I think it would be good for the Ministry to make an effort and really make that rule within 60 days and accept this amendment of ours, or the law will come eight days from this adoption. Here are mostly our remarks through these three amendments, and I hope we can support this law if some of these remarks that are important are respected by the ministers. Here's thank you for listening to me, and thank you to colleagues who stayed behind because this is, I say we all keep going back to that education is most important, education in Croatia. Then when the debate unfortunately leaves us very little.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46189	Igor Coleman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46190	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Just one note about these asylums and foreigners. So the fact is that they were asylum seekers but this new sentence that's being added is being expanded, if I read it well, to what.../The speaker has been excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46191	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46192	Excuse me. And that is good because this is a situation that Croatia has met relatively rarely so far, but given the entry into the European Union, given the... border and the circumstances it will meet much more often. So, surely, such a provision is important and in this sense not only because of compliance with European directives, but also because of compliance with the great basic humanity of a society.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46193	Replication response, Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46194	I really only wanted a short colleague of Coleman's. It's true, and that's why I said we don't mind. However, all we can do to help these people from various situations of life with us, and even those who are illegally staying, is to include these children in the education system and to enable them to do so. I didn't mean anything by it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46195	Maria Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46196	Dear colleagues, regarding this part of your debate concerning the amendment to the Law on Turning which is in the first reading. I think there's a part of the problem that I'd like at least for us who are in education to reach a certain agreement. So it is not disputed that at the present moment the Law of Turnings is valid, as well as the proposal for a new law that passed the first reading, which only prescribed the provisions of that old law in that part are in conflict with the laws of education because they speak of the same thing differently. After the Law on crafts and after this law, the Law on Professional Education was passed. The Law on Professional Education, which we all here supported by consensus in the Parliament, found that professional curricula and then these... craftsmen and craftsmen were brought by the minister responsible for education. No one disputes the importance of the Ministry of Trade and the Minister of craft in that part of that education that happens in craft workshops. However, I wish we could agree, so I don't think it's a good idea to say the amendment because it doesn't do the education that this part of the curricula that happens at school brings the Minister of Education for All and then we use the Law on crafts according to the Law on Professional Education and the Law to this education and education in elementary and high school, not to align the Law on crafts with all these other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46197	Replication response, Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46198	Thank you. Comrade Lugaric, I think you and I will agree very well that we understand each other. But I think that the Croatian Chamber of crafts mostly meant the practical part, the practical part where the Law on crafts would have had a little impact on, i.e. The minister responsible for the craft had to influence that practical part. And the Law on Professional Education provided for me to agree with you, I know that he predicted that the minister in charge of education, and we brought him along with the Curiculum of Professional Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46199	And Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46200	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Rocksandic, here's a few things that actually moved me to the replica. I'm glad, though, that we from education are all what they say about PS, so we made it to these late hours. Namely, interdisciplinaryity, collegiation, it's certainly something that's the future. I believe that after the adoption of the Education Strategy and a little more attention will be paid to it when we pass a new law and simply formalise what is in schools, which is what I would say today at least formally speaking a matter of improvisation and the good will of teachers. So it's certainly the future of education. I also agree with experimental programs, so parents should give consent. However, not wanting to potentiate the debate on the curriculative approach continues, i.e. on human rights and the rights to choose education, I must say, however, that we must be careful to what extent this human right, or the right of parents to choose their child's education, goes to. So, will parents choose not to teach their child biology because they believe in creationism or whether we choose not to study physics because of some other beliefs. So we have to be careful here if we use such qualifications. Here's what I'd like to mention. And what I want to stress is, certainly, this kind of thing that applies to the Vukovar Memorial Center is that they're exceptional first of all because of it, I've had the honor of working at a primary school in Vukovar but I also have the knowledge of the practice that many children who didn't grow up in Vukovar, who didn't grow up in the Homeland War, thank God, these are generations that have been standing for decades after the Homeland War simply have no real perception of what the Homeland War was, and I think it's only visible in Vukovar if you walk the streets these scars are still very present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46201	Replication response, Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46202	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Hajduković, you have noticed well, and here we have agreed that the new and modern approach of this modular system we will all support. In particular, among young people and ways of teaching and ways of education, and the methodology must also be changed at teaching schools and everywhere, and that is where we agree. Because we're still educated by the old methodical principles they wanted me to admit it or not in most of the way I'm going to say pedagogical colleges, so those who raise. But when I proposed this amendment with the consent of my parents, I was aware that it was also quite difficult to implement. However, we had a council, a council of parents. I didn't mean here on this program that you just mentioned about the Vukovar Memorial Center, not that kind of program. You may not understand me very well, but it's that kind of program and those experimental, experimental programs that led to this problem of health education. If we had just warned our parents somewhere, that we were somewhere in the schools that were introduced as an experimental health education program, and he was introduced to schools as an experimental program, maybe it wouldn't have happened. Maybe it wouldn't come. That's why I said it's possible either this or that the ministry accepts its formulation mainly that the Council of Parents or parents give some kind of consent to the experimental program. This does not apply to this modular programme and to an inter-entity program possibly biology or any other regular class in schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46203	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46204	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, Madam Assistant Minister. The SDP club will support this bill, but in this debate we want to say a few things. It has already been pointed out here that all of us who are involved in education here in the Parliament, so to speak, we have been slightly traumatized by this last Assembly and any annual changes to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools in the last week of the session. It's every year's practice since 2008 since the law was passed for the first time. I've been thinking a lot about why we're doing this just last week. Of course, part of the reason lies in the dynamics of the school year. You wait until the school year is over to sort things out, and then you have to work it out before the next school year starts, and then we get into this period of the seventh month. However, the time has shown, in 2008 until today, that the decision was then made to regulate the two laws, so the one on basic and secondary education into one, and it may not have been the happiest, because it is very difficult to regulate the same provisions of two completely different education systems and we suggest to the government and the ministry, and we hope that, after all these experiences with this law, these last five, six years, to think about it and to approach the two new laws in accordance with all the experiences but also the changes that have occurred in the meantime. I will remind you in the field of secondary education we have adopted a consensus and the Law on Professional Education and the Law on Art Education, we have passed six months ago or slightly less The Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, which regulates exactly programming based on outcomes that will have its impact on both one system and the other system, and we think that now is the time to actually go to work maybe laws from the beginning richer both for new experiences and for everything that happened in the meantime. More specifically about this final proposal for amending and supplementing the law, the law offers basically 5 to say different changes. The first one may be the most important motivation for amending the law, concerns the precise definition of the EU directive in our legislation. We haven't really had that in school yet, actually, which is logical because there's actually no common acquis for the field of primary and secondary education. Very little, exclusively related to the children of foreigners, migrants, etc. In this respect, Article 1 of the Law is also a valuable new contribution to our educational legislation. The second part of this series of amendments relating to the amendments to the provisions that define the possibility of attending basic education for foreigners, therefore to the children of foreigners who are illegally staying in the Republic of Croatia. That has already been said here, we also support it to say so now that the extension of rights because what the law has so far defined has been education for asylum seekers, for asylum seekers, for foreigners under subsidiary and temporary protection and in fact excluded the education of foreigners who are illegally staying in Croatia. This has led many people to a difficult fate, children of course came with their parents, and we think that at least children are guilty and that they should at least be allowed to go to school at this elementary school level. Of course, it is a good restriction to say so in a way set out in the law, that it refers to these foreigners who are illegally staying in Croatia if they are located in an acceptable Centre for Foreigners, if their forced distance from the Republic of Croatia is temporarily delayed. during the duration of the deadline for return to your homeland. The second part of the amendments relate to the provisions of the law that are in line with the new Penal Code that came into force in January this year, which in a slightly different way defines criminal offences, so it was necessary and it was really necessary to prescribe that and by that means to say to this new Code of Criminal Code and to define criminal offences for which only the initiation of criminal proceedings but also condemnation are actually obstacles to the establishment of a working relationship at school. In fact, nothing really matters, because it is still just the initiation of a criminal procedure for the precise and legal defined crimes that are the reason for the distance of persons from school, and the conviction of course and by law, and a valid reason for the termination of the labour contract. However, the simple classification of criminal offences has changed and it is good that we now retain both of these procedures that may be under way. The third part of the amendment refers, in fact, to the nomotechnical harmonisation of the infringement provisions which have so far been wrongly referred to as criminality. This is technically one harmonisation, contributes to the clarity of the text but nothing historical and nothing substantial new. The fourth part relates to the granting of powers to the Minister to adopt a regulation that should regulate the ways, conditions and security measures and obligations of users and service providers related to excursions, excursions and other activities of this type and we hope that this will finally be regulated because so far it has been in the domain of contractual relations mainly travel agencies and parents. And there were colleagues and colleagues of all kinds of experiences. From great experiences and children and parents and schools to suspicion of corruption and pressure and all kinds of blackmail. And it is good to finally and universally define at least some minimum rules with the aim of protecting and protecting children, as well as the purpose outside the classroom class. The trips and excursions of children in schools do not serve that we all go somewhere nice and have fun there, they must be for the purpose of achieving educational goals. The fifth and last series of amendments relate to improvements in the text of the law relating to the implementation of experimental programmes and to the more precise and precise definition of the National Curriculum and the curriculum and programmes. I want to say here, given the current debate and the amendment of the HDZ Club, health education has nothing to do with the experimental program, and it was not an experimental programme. The experimental programs are something else. The experimental program is, for example, a Latin language study program according to the NATURA method, which is a new one, so this went to check the new textbook etc. The experimental program was, for example, an economic-tourism gymnastics program that, after one year of experimentation, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Minister has shown that it is good and that there is an express interest and experimental program, for example, to check the use of influence and method of using the pills in the follow-up. So these are experimental programs, relating to individual subjects, to certain types of schools and to the use of checking in practice of using certain teaching technologies to put it that way or certain teaching methods. Very often it goes hand in hand with each other. Here to seek the consent of parents in this way I think it would prevent many innovations in education because I repeat experimental programs exactly what they serve. However, there is also a cure for this, so I don't think there is any slow view that the experimental program as such must be defined either through the school curricula or the yearly plan and the school's work programme. We in the existing law in Article 137(4) clearly define that it is the Council of Parents that gives an opinion on both the school curricula and the annual plan and the school programme and everything else. So they already, the Council of Parents under the existing provisions, are already involved. And I think there was one maybe misunderstood. And these provisions relating to the experimental programme are changed solely in a way that regulates this administrative procedure that must be in the making of a solution to the implementation of the experimental programme and that it is possible, for example, that special textbooks can be used, so that people are not brought in, that was a particular problem with this Latin, where, for example, they have a special textbook on which it is done, and under the existing laws it should not be used because, according to the Law on textbooks, it must only be those approved under that law. So the experimental program is something entirely different from what was said here and it has nothing to do with health care. And about this latest set of changes related to definitions I want on behalf of the SDP club, like the HNS club, to really highlight the importance of introducing curriculative changes to education because it is actually the most important and important fundamental change in education that will happen when changing what is being taught and how in school. And there's actually the beginning and the end of everything, and I'm going to dare say that it's actually hard to expect any long-term social change that we need because society is developing and our school stays at some time where it's been without changing what is being taught and how at school. That's what we would call curriculative change or change of curricula and program, depending on how we look at it. Therefore, the SDP strongly supports and encourages the Minister and the Ministry to continue with the curriculative change on one hand as a new method of programming in education based on outcomes, and this is the difference compared to the programming that has so far been through the curricula and the programmes, but also our support for the introduction of new content that is necessary in our schools and which are significantly better correspondence to the 21st century. In many elements our school is based on the... class-based object-hour system of the 19th century. We are already in the 21st time not to put things into drawers and it is indeed something that needs to be supported by the government, we should give support to the ministry that we have always done regardless of who was the minister and I am glad that there is a consensus here in the Croatian Parliament. And finally, let me conclude, we hope that we may pass 15.7 next year without amending and supplementing the law that we will get maybe new laws, and these are really necessary, which are necessary and which should be supported and therefore will also support the SDP club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46205	Thank you. Ivanka Roksandić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46206	A really short replica to my colleague Lugaric. The school institution can implement an experimental program that checks the value of new educational content or forms of working methods or new teaching equipment. I took health education as an example of new educational content, and I said there was a possibility. You said well that the Council of Parents decides as well as the school boards all according to the annual plan and work programme, so the experimental programme will not be listed because of the shortness in Article 29 of the current law in Article 4 of the amendment and the addition of the law. which then prevents this item from being then 4. Complet this consent that, with the request for the implementation of the programme that the school delivers and contributes to the ministry that will approve it, the request shall also be put in place if we have here everything that the experimental programme must contain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46207	Reply to the replica Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46208	Because for example, when you have an experimental program of using pills in the classroom, one dad or mom will come along and say that they're all devils' devices and that they shouldn't be used in schools. ...the thing is really simple. And I repeat, health education wasn't an experimental program that wasn't introduced and it's not true that every program is worn that way. This current curricula and basic and secondary school programme, which was adopted in 2006, the minister brought in, the next day went into school, there was no public debate, neither was anyone manifested nor was experimentally checked, and today every school is doing it. So let's not call things by the wrong name.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46209	Minister Željko Jovanovic's closing statement. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46210	Thank you very much for representing Kolman, Roksandić and Lugarić for contributing to this debate. This is a small law but a law that will certainly significantly improve the quality of our system of education in primary and secondary schools and we will accept part of the amendment, part of it will not, part of it is not based specifically on the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce, for example. What at the end of today's hard day I want to thank all of you who are here. You've actually seen, in fact, a summary of the entire ministry's work in the past year and a half. By adopting a draft strategy, we will conclude our first half of the mandate, and the second half of the mandate will be a fine addition of all that we have started and hopefully in the second term we will have a completely new school, a school for the 21st century in which children will learn knowledge with understanding, in which they will adopt skills and abilities, from which they will produce values and attitudes and based on which they will have a better job, a better quality of life in Croatia because this is a key task for all of us who are in politics. Thank you very much for the overall contribution of today in the work of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46211	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you for being here with us all day. I'm closing the debate. The bill will be voted upon when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46212	We are going to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No 433; the final text of the Law is closed. The amendments are divided in a special table to the representatives. I ask the Minister of Education and Sports Science, the respected Željko Jovanovic, to manifest himself. Amendment No. 1st representative of Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46213	Amendment No. 1. Mrs. Lugaric is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46214	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final proposal. Amendment No. 2. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46215	Amendment No. 2. On Article 3 of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the future proposed amendment of the Law is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46216	On behalf of the applicant, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46217	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So this amendment and this proposal primarily referred to the implementation of the programme in the field of vocational education for those related programmes, so on. tied turns. We believe that all stakeholders in vocational education should participate in the design of the programme, mainly practical courses. So we also accepted the initiative of the Croatian Chamber of crafts to improve the Law on Education and Education with this amendment, aware that we have passed the Law on Professional Education. But since the first reading has passed the Law of Turning in this House, we think that we should accept such an amendment in accordance with the proposal of this new Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46218	Are you asking for a vote? Please make your statement on Amendment No. 2. A HDZ representative club in the Croatian Parliament that the government does not accept. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 3rd of the same Club of Representatives, Honored Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46219	This amendment is also not accepted because it cannot be resolved in this way by the full introduction of an experimental programme which means including whole classrooms and schools in the preparation and evaluation of an experimental programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46220	On behalf of the Club, the applicant for the amendment is a respected representative, Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46221	As explained in this amendment, we have written an experimental programme and the law provides for a school institution, an Agency responsible for education or some other institution from the education system. And programs that are not part of a regular curricula and a program whose content may, perhaps, not be acceptable to parents for various reasons can also be implemented. I'm talking about the program, not what else could possibly be checked with experimental programs of teaching equipment, means or teaching methods. So for different reasons or worldly or religious reasons. We therefore feel that it is necessary to get to know parents first with the content of an experimental program that is possibly being introduced into teaching. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46222	Thank you very much. Please make your statement on Amendment No. 3. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 4. Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46223	The amendment of the Committee for the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46224	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No. 5. HDZ Representatives' Club. Dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46225	If you please, Mr. President, we have two amendments regarding the same article.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46226	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46227	We suggest that they be accepted in a changed form. In fact, the HDZ Club proposes a 60-day deadline, Mr. Honorable Salapic for 90 days and we don't mind being as short as possible because given the procedure, we estimate that it is not possible to bring in 90 days. The first proposal was six months, and now we're reducing it to 120 days because it's a deadline in which objectively in accordance with the procedure, this Regulation can be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46228	Amendment holder HDZ Representatives' Club Ivanka Roksandić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46229	Realising that there is a certain procedure, but also that of the Ministers, which we said in an explanation. Unfortunately, the law will enter eight days after its acceptance here in the Parliament. Part of the program to be prescribed by this Regulation is also an integral part of the annual plan and work programme of the school that must be brought to each school institution by the end of September. So, there's going to be a bit of a problem, but since you've cut this deadline, I hope you'll succeed and accept it if it comes. I don't know what you're going to write in the rulebook, if it comes down to the fact that this Regulation is actually within 120 days, or 4 months, this is acceptable to us. ... [[The speech room has been shut down, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46230	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Salapic on Amendment No. Six.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46231	Thank you, Mr. President. We're glad to meet you halfway, so here we are pulling the amendment and accepting the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46232	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 5 and No. Six are withdrawn. What the government has proposed is accepted. We don't have any more amendments. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. I'm asking you to plead by raising your hand. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'll get you a score. I find that most of the votes of 83 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 21 votes are abstentions to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46233	We will discuss: - The proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is proposed by the President of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 119. The Constitution of the You've received the motion for an act in boxes. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We will also vote on the motion for a decision later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46234	We are going to propose a decision on the election of the Vice-President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. The debate on the proposal is closed. I am voting on a motion for a decision on the election of the Vice-President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. By raising our hands, may we please state who's in favor? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the 120 votes in favour and 2 abstentions have been decided on the election of Branko Hrvatin as president of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. And congratulations to Branko Hrvatin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46235	And we're still going to discuss two points actually. - Proposal for a decision on the selection of the Deputy Advocate General is proposed by the Advocate General under Article 12. The law of the Attorney General. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Would you like to explain the proposal? Yeah. Proposed by the attorney general, Ms. Laura Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46236	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. So in accordance with the Law on the Ombudsman, I submit a proposal for the selection of the deputy or deputy attorney general. Namely, a public call for the selection of deputy or deputy attorney general in accordance with the law and within the legal time limit was published in the NN and on the website of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Thirty-two candidates and candidates applied for a public call. During the procedure, one candidate gave up. All applicants reported met the conditions laid down in Article 12(3). The law on the occupiers and all of them I've had conversations with. These talks were structured on equal issues so that I could compare the answers. The questions concerned the motivation to work in the office, to understand the specificity of office positions within the Republic of Croatia and the different mandates that the office has and finally related to the experience in management and management and the tendency to teamwork. Following this, I propose that the Croatian Parliament appoint the deputy attorney general, Mrs Lidija Lukina-Kezic, Tena Šimonović-Einwalter and Jagoda Novak. Mrs Lidija Lukina-Kezić is a graduate lawyer with a passed judicial exam and years of experience in the field of human rights and justice and state administration systems. For 5 years, she was the head of the Office for Representatives and Representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights. She was also an assistant minister of justice, which will be a significant contribution from the office in particular to the section relating to the classical ombudsman function, i.e. the protection of human rights and freedoms in a narrow sense. She published several papers, completed numerous human rights educations, participated in delegations presenting government reports to international documents. He speaks foreign languages, has experience in human leadership and management. Ms. Tena Šimonović-Einwalter is a graduate lawyer with a passed judicial exam, two masters in relevant areas, a diploma from the International Institute for Human Rights in Strasbourg. It also has years of experience in the field of human rights, however, with a special emphasis on curbing discrimination. It is a member of the Executive Board of the European Network for the Prevention of Discrimination and Promotion of Equality. And author of indeed numerous professional, scientific works and publications in the field of human rights and the fight against discrimination. Mrs. Jagoda Novak is a professor of Croatian Language, Croatian and French Language and Literature and also has many years of experience in the field of human rights, especially minority rights. But she, as Head of the Department of Research and Information and the VD Head of the Centre for Human Rights, was actually doing a lot of work, i.e. the area of its activities were conducting research, promoting a large number of topics in the field of human rights, informing the public about both the activities of the offices and the large number of topics and human rights in general. And achieving cooperation between different stakeholders, so government, NGOs, academic, international communities and others. And Jagoda Novak, as the only of the proposed candidates who are not a graduate lawyer, is actually in the office, which was also the legislator's intensities giving one new dimension and breadth in respect of human rights on top of only legal professions. So here's my thanks for the opportunity to present, to suggest these candidates present them and ask your support in their choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46237	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46238	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the esteemed Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal proposes to the Croatian Assembly of three deputy attorney generals, calling on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Law on the Ombudsman. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Advocate General, in which paragraph 1 states that the Advocate General has at least three deputies. In accordance with the provisions of this Article, the conditions for the selection of the Deputy Advocate-General shall also be laid down. However, it is interesting to see the way and procedure that the attorney general went through in order for this Final proposal to appear before representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Namely, the first proposal for a Decision on the election of the deputy occupier of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia was submitted by the Ombudsman to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 3 May 2013 and the same proposal was submitted to the representatives of the Croatian Parliament by letter dated 6 May 2013. The proposal contained a proposal for the Croatian Assembly of Deputy Ombudsmans to appoint four persons, according to the names of three women and one male. In the light of the proposal for a decision, the Advocate General shall be called upon by the Constitution and by certain legal regulations which he holds relevant for the selection of both the person and their number for the Deputy Advocate General. Among others, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, which the Ombudsman points to, is published in the National No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I don't know what edition of the National Journals the Ombudsman was looking at, but according to my humble legal knowledge, the same Law was published in National No. 85 of 2008 and its amendments and additions to the 2012 National Journal No. 112. It could be said as far as possible and allowed to be a random slip, but if we look at the new proposal submitted by the Ombudsman's mother-in-law, that's the same thing in the new proposal that the attorney-in-law submitted to us in her letter of 27 June 2013. If the attorney general had really consulted the Discrimination Act, she probably would have made a very small mistake. Moreover, when we talk about the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, I doubt that the Ombudsman did not read closely the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, the fact that it did not comply with the provisions of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, which states among other things that the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination provides for the protection and promotion of equality as the highest value of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Premises are created for the achievement of equal opportunities and regulates the protection of discrimination based on how racial and ethnicity, skin colour, language, religion, political or other beliefs, national or social origin, property status, union membership, education, social status, marital or family status, age, health status, disability, genetic heritage, birth identity, expression or sexual orientation, as well as gender. It is important to stress that the tasks of the central authority responsible for the fight against discrimination under the Law are being carried out by the Advocate General. Article 1a of the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination, inter alia, states that this Law on Discrimination of Discrimination is in line with acts of the European Union, including Directive 2006/54/EC, the European Parliament and the Council of 5 July 2006 on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation. In the sense of this Directive, direct discrimination exists if a person has a more adverse treatment for his sex than he or she has, or would have, another person in a comparable situation, and there is indirect discrimination under this Directive if, in a way, a seemingly neutral provision, criterion or procedure can put a person in a more unfavourable position than the other person in relation to the person of the other sex, unless that provision is an objectively justified legitimate objective, although the means to achieve that objective are appropriate and necessary. For this situation, I should like to draw attention to the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality, which states that when appointed to state bodies, units of local, regional or regional self-government and other legal persons with public authority must take care of the equal representation of both sexes. In addition, the same law states that when advertising the need for employment must clearly indicate that persons of both sexes can contact the advertised workplace. In the publication of a public call for the election of the deputy attorney general, the Ombudsman did not respect that provision of the law on gender equality. However, in a public call for the selection of the deputy attorney general, it stated that the deputies of the Ombudsman were elected in a way to ensure gender equality as is the result of Article 12(7). The law of the Attorney General. In view of this fact, as well as the whole procedure from a public call to a proposal for a decision on the election of a deputy lawyer, it would be interested to know what the lawyer for gender equality means throughout the process of gender equality. As I have already mentioned, in the first proposal for a decision on the election of a 32 candidate and candidate deputy civil defence attorney, namely 31 candidates and candidates, since one candidate in the meantime has given up, the Advocate General points out that all the candidates reported have met the conditions laid down in Article 12(3). The law of the Attorney General. The first proposal for a decision on the selection of the deputy occupier included three candidates and one candidate, i.e. the relationship was 75% female, 25% male, while this final proposal for a decision on the selection of the deputy guarantee contains 100% female. The only reason for the reduction in the number of candidates proposed for the selection of the deputy occupier from 4 to 3 quoted by the Ombudsman is that the State budget for 2013 does not provide for funding for more than 3 deputies. If this is the reason for reducing the number of vacancy attorneys, then the fact should have been known to the occupier at the time of sending the first proposal since 3 May 2013 because, as far as we know after 3 May, there was no rebalancing of the state budget which would reduce the funds for the work of the ombudsman. Rebalance was, as I recall, April 19th, 2013. If we look at the résumés, all four in the first proposal proposed candidate, I know that it wasn't easy to decide which one of the candidates was conditionalally the least good. That's why I'd like the attorney general here to publicly tell us, keeping in mind everything that has been stated, which has been guided by the criteria that, in this final proposal, the decision to appoint the deputy attorney general has eliminated this particular person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46239	Replica, Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46240	Dear colleague Babic, I have listened to your debate and I must admit that I was positively surprised by your commitment to the consistent implementation of the Law on Gender Equality. But there is one other thing that is problematic here. This kind of debate and this debate came up in a situation where we have the attorney general and we have three proposed candidates. We had appointments here, and when we had all the male suggestions, no one thought to discuss it, and then it should be consistent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46241	We don't have any more logs. Would you like to give a final explanation? Yeah. Ms. Laura Vidovic's attorney-general.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46242	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Babić, I am actually very grateful to you for the opportunity to comment on this process and explain the way and criteria I had when I chose candidates. It is true that in the first instance, and in my first decision, I have proposed four candidates as I am now convinced that four deputies are what is needed in order to function adequately, well and optimally and that we could fast the best possible results and of course at that point I knew that I did not have the funds in the budget for all four candidates. What I was hoping for was that I would fight for that money during the appointment procedure as a matter of principle if I didn't ask for it, I certainly wouldn't get it. Yes, of course, in the meantime there was a rebalancing which was immediately announced in advance as technical and something relating to the area of health, i.e. only a few systems and did not engage in this rebalancing, first because the time had not matured yet, and second because I was actually hoping and counting on rebalancing during June. And my idea and my activities all this time were actually trying to explain and explain why I really needed four deputies. At one point, so now I'm only talking about the process, at one point how I noticed that nothing was going on and that it wasn't coming on the agenda I got a memo from the Constitution Committee asking me if I had the insurance money for four deputies. And of course that message I realized that instead of responding to the Constitution Committee, I had withdrawn the first decision, i.e. the motion for a decision and made to the Assembly a second decision concerning only three candidates. Now a proposal for gender equality and criteria for selecting exactly three candidates, not two candidates and one candidate, is one thing to say about all candidates who have applied for a public invitation meeting all the formal criteria. They really all meet the formal criteria. None of them are members of the political party, all of them have a sufficient number of years of employment, all conditions, Croatian citizenship, are not punished. A little less immediately I will admit I entered that criterion that refers to public recognition and knowledge since for many of them I simply was not competent to judge it. But that's exactly why it was important for me to talk to each of them. And of course the résumé itself carries a certain weight. And what he writes actually speaks a lot about the work experience of a person who appears for this workplace. I did not guarantee gender equality in the first place, since there were three of them compared to one. However, the primary criterion for which I was guided and for which I absolutely will not apologize was expertise. These were the criteria that I saw from the selected candidates from that basket of 32 or 31 people as something that could contribute to the office's results. So I chose the absolutely four best candidates available to me at a given time. When I was reducing the number from four to three, it was clear to me in that decision that this question was very relevant and that someone would probably ask it to me, and that is why it was very important for me to have strong and good arguments why these three candidates, not two of them and one male candidate. And I've made a decision exclusively based on one side of their work experience, what they've contributed so far and what they have in their résumés and needs and priorities of the office in one I'd say in the short term, not in the long term. Because the next rebalancing is likely to come if it is by the end of the year and the 2014 budget when I will again make a public call and therefore fight for the fourth deputy. And here's hoping to hear from me enough quality male candidate. I'd just like to say more. I think it's very important. The priorities I led in the office were mostly that, this year in the first, by July 1st this year, a double minus 20 complaints were received in the office than at the same time last year. It's not that one counselor now has one complaint, or two complaints, and last year he had one, but now he's 100 and last year he was 50. The pressure on office capacities is enormous not only in individual complaints but also in everything new that we really want to do and what we're just developing. I have estimated that according to the areas of law, i.e. the areas that I have chosen to follow, that is to say, certain services that I will talk about more when I speak about the Rules of Procedure, that these are the best persons who, in their previous working experience, are the ones who follow. So Lidija Lukina Kezic was a representative of the Republic of Croatia at the European Court in Strasbourg. It certainly does not only well know the Croatian legal system and the human rights area at all but also fully international law and certainly according to its CV shows that it can follow. As far as Tena Simonović is concerned, there is absolutely no dilemma in my humble opinion that she is the greatest expert in the area of discrimination management currently in Croatia at least in this wider segment we are dealing with. And finally another reason I mentioned it shortly earlier, why I wanted one person not to be a lawyer, or not a lawyer, knowing that this is exactly what one of the legislators had to do with the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman so that he wouldn't have to be a lawyer. So this is one step in this direction where we're trying to really make human rights softer, more accessible, wider than just, which gives them a narrow legal profession. And here were my criteria and my decision to make such a proposal. As for the number of People's Newspapers, I'm really surprised, I'm sorry, I'll check. Of course, the decision was largely justified in the same way as the amendments to the laws and mandates that were subsequently attached to the Law on the Ombudsman for financial reasons, which I later stated only the last part of the reasoning of the decision changed. Thanks for that warning. I'll take care of it anyway. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46243	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the motion for a decision later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46244	We're going to propose a decision on selecting the deputy attorney general. The debate on the proposal for a decision is closed. I am voting on a motion for a decision on the election of the deputy attorney general. By raising our hands, may we please state who's in favor? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 85 votes in favour, 31 votes against and 9 abstentions, have been reached by the decision on the election of the deputy Ombudsman of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Law on the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman and his deputies swear their oath before the Croatian Assembly before their entry into office. The oath is given in a way that I read it, that I read the text of the oath and then the deputies of the attorney general when they are called, rise up and pronounce my oath. Easy to sit down. Thank you very much. I will now read the oath: "I swear that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and that I will carry out my duty in the fair, honest and conscientious interests of the citizens.". Tina Simunović-Einwalter.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46245	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46246	Get up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46247	I swear. Anything else? Like this?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46249	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46250	Thank you very much. Strawberries, Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46251	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46252	Thank you very much. Lidija Lukina Kezic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46253	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46254	Thank you very much. All three congratulations with a desire to work really in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Congratulations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46255	And we will discuss more - the Rules of Procedure of the Attorney General - confirmation. The Advocate General delivered the Rules of Procedure for approval pursuant to Article 30. The law of the Attorney General. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. And the introduction will explain the proposal, i.e. the Rules of Procedure of the Advocate General, Ms. Lora Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46256	Thank you very much. Well, as you have said, I propose to the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the 2012 Law on the Ombudsman of the People's Republic of Macedonia, which is detailed in the internal structure of the office, the conduct, the way in which the work is planned and carried out, the methodology of making the report, the work cycle, the number of members of the Human Rights Council and some other issues that are important for the performance, the regular performance of the work. However, the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure was also important because of the really changed circumstances in which the office works after it is actually a Rules of Procedure which is now in force from '97. So he was actually founded on the Law of the General Prosecutor of '92. and the power of the Law of Regiment after '92. they have changed to the following two or three Constitutions and have yet to be added to the powers that we have previously spoken of through, or through, the Law on Discrimination and the Law on the National Prevention Mechanism. What I noticed when I took office was that the office's mandate under those three laws, or the office's operation under those three laws, seemed like three offices in one. These were three separate segments that were not intertwined at all, I would say that there was no communication at all, and there was one complaint in which the protection of human rights and the person who felt discriminated was actually opening two cases and the parties left the same office two different answers. One in terms of the protection of human rights, one in view of the suppression of discrimination. It seemed to me completely unwarranted, ineffective, not good and very bad, and the aim of the Rules of Procedure is, in fact, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure to enable such implementation of work processes that will enable all the items, everything we decide in the office to actually be in a unique way, to have uniform treatment and ultimately to be much more effective. Following all these mandates that I have discussed, the Rules of Procedure provides for the structure of an office that will consist of five services. It is the Service for the Protection of Human Rights, the Service for Persons Deprived of Freedom and the National Prevention Mechanism, the Office for the Prevention of Discrimination, the Service for Communication, Co-operation and the Promotion of Human Rights and the Service for General Affairs. The work of one or more services would be managed by a deputy staff attorney, so it would actually be optimal if I had five, and then maybe in a happier future, and that's why I'm pawning, so for now I'm going to keep fighting for four. The Rules of Procedure specify the provisions on the handling of both complaints and in all other segments of the office's activities, so also in the procedures for amending the laws, other regulations, the monitoring of human rights and freedoms, cooperation with civil society organisations and others. Another novelty brought by the Rules of Procedure, and I think it is very important for the public and the Croatian Parliament to report is the fact that this year we are boredom, so until 1 July 2013. Three regular annual work reports were submitted to the Croatian Assembly. Report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2012, Report on the work of the national preventive mechanism and Report on the occurrences of discrimination. We think it is much more effective, better and more complete if we present all this matter with one report that will then be a report on the work of the Ombudsman, but also on the state of human rights in Croatia. Of course, up to the right overall Human Rights Report will take some time, I don't expect much from the first report next year, but in any case we will be working to give a real review of the human rights situation in Croatia from the perspective of the attorney general. In addition, the newspaper adopted by the Law of the People's Republic, which is then further discussed in the Rules of Procedure, is the establishment, establishment, authority and selection of members of the Human Rights Council, which is also provided for by the Advocate General. And, of course, once the Rules of Procedure enters into force, we are committed and it is really important that we do so as soon as possible to draw up a Regulation on the internal order that will only effectively establish the structure of the office and allow for regular operations. What is very important to me and what I am particularly proud of and I really want to point out is that we have worked really participatory on this Rules of Procedure, that virtually all the advisors in the office participated, that we have had a number of different readings and consents and conversations and agreements, so that it is indeed the product of collective thinking of all the employees of the office. And we think that it reflects our needs in the best possible way, while at the same time further discussing the provisions of the Law on the Ombudsman. Well, I hope so, and I suggest you support this Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46257	Thank you very much. Replica, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46258	Well, the esteemed Attorney General said, in fact, you said that you were leading this Rules of Procedure to the best efficiency and role of the Advocate General, so I'll tell you, and here's just to warn you of article 23 of this Rules of Procedure, where the complaint must be understandable and complete, or it must contain the information necessary for the handling of the Advocate General. There's nothing else listed. This is better explained to you in Article 21 of the Law on the Ombudsman, clearly and specifically. And Article 26, when the Ombudsman considers the complaint for violation of the rights of citizens arising from the application of the rules in which a procedure for assessing its consent has been brought before the Constitutional Court by the system and by law, the Ombudsman will stand by the procedure for the decision of the Constitutional Court. I don't know why. Article 30. The Ombudsman may also point out to the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia the need to adopt and amend laws and other regulations. That's... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46259	Replication response, Mrs. Laura Vidovic. You can go from place to place.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46260	Excuse me, I will learn the customs of the Parliament in time. As far as I am concerned, I am going from the end to the provisions on stopping the proceedings of the Constitutional Court are concerned, that is because the decisions of the Constitutional Court are binding on all as well as on the Advocate General. On the one hand, my decision in this case could mean prejudge, on the other hand, it is in my opinion, so I cannot be in conflict with a positive conflict of jurisdiction with the Constitutional Court of course but the decision of two institutions on the same thing is certainly not effective if one of these two bodies actually has stronger legal power if you want to do so than the other. In the report, I believed that you would raise this question, we are in the office of a sort of position that the Ombudsman, as the author of the Croatian Parliament, should be able to decide independently and independently on which topics they will submit specific reports, so these are the topics which we will recognize either by complaints or by the number of complaints or by the quality and strength of complaints that come to our office or from some other sources of information, of course, which can be as wide as the world is wide. For everything else, it seemed to us to impose on us topics to deal with, and it was important for us to decide for ourselves, of course, taking into account the proposals that come from the Croatian Parliament in any case. This does not mean, of course, that we will refuse to refer a special report to the proposal of the Committee, MPs or the Croatian Parliament, but in any case, it is important for us to have the opportunity to decide for ourselves, justify and explain why we are submitting a report rather than not, and that it is not just because one of us asked for it because it is not in accordance with independence and independence. As far as the provisions are concerned. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46261	Thank you very much. You have two minutes to answer. Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later on the confirmation of the Rules of Procedure. And tomorrow, at 9.30, we will begin with the Final Proposal for a Law on Management and Property of the Republic of Croatia. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-09-0.u46262	We've got a Rules of Procedure for the Attorney General-Confirmation. The debate is closed. I am voting to confirm the rules of procedure of the Advocate General-Confirmation. Please state who's in favor of confirming this decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been made by a majority vote 81 votes to and 23 votes abstention.
