ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35354	My colleagues and colleagues have a good day. We continue to discuss - The report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2011 and the implementation of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2011 Croatia's Energy Regulatory Agency submitted the report in accordance with Article 25. Law on energy regulation. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. I would like to invite the representative of the president of the Board of Directors of the Tomislav Jurekovic Agency to give an initial explanation of the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35355	Thank you very much. Madam President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me to brief you on the report on Hera's work and on the implementation of HERA's 2011 budget. The obligation to submit this report and to implement the budget stems from the Law on the Regulation of Energy Activities based on which the Agency is responsible to the Croatian Parliament for its work, the Croatian Parliament and the founder of the Agency. Let me remind you briefly, HERA is an independent, independent and non-profit legal person who has been given public authority and whose task is to have a fundamental task of implementing the regulation of energy activities in Croatia. In that context, I would just like to take a brief look at the fact that this moment before you is the 2011 report. The reason for this delay is in principle of formal nature. The law on regulation in its previous version prescribed a deadline to submit did not apologize to be defined by the deadline of submission of the report but only prescribed the obligation. My predecessor prepared this report but assessed for his well-known reasons why it should not yet be tolerated, so that the current team and my administrative board and I, at its head, meet this act of formal obligation to submit the 2011 work report. But since the context in which the Regulatory Agency and the entire Croatian energy has been acting has changed significantly from 2011 to today, I believe that this report should primarily be considered as a technical report recapitulating the past period, as well as the continuity of the presentation of certain data on the energy sector. As I said today's context has been significantly changed since the end of last year, or since autumn last year. The regulatory agency shall act on the basis of a new Energy Regulatory Act which has significantly changed its role and, above all, giving it much greater obligations and significantly greater powers. The Energy Regulation Act is one of the four laws passed over the past few months, which form the basic part of the alignment with the third EU energy regulation package and, as such, looks first and foremost at the future of the Energy Agency's tasks, have changed significantly in this context. This is therefore the report in front of you structured in a way that is mostly compatible with reporting such as the regulatory agencies in Europe, which to some extent is defined I will not tell the regulations, but in any case guidelines that have associations such as CR and ACER, therefore have a more or less recognised structure. In line with the legal reporting obligations, it refers to the observation of the Regulatory Agency on the developments in the energy market in Croatia to the fulfilment of the legal obligations of energy entities, to public services to their implementation in the context of Croatian energy, and in its second part, to the fulfilment of the budget. I say I will limit myself to just pointing out a few more important details from 2011 because after presenting an organisational structure that is already somewhat outdated and basic elements of the regulation taking place, it is precisely this main part of the recapitulation of the developments in 2011 and the observations on energy markets. In the focus of regulation of energy activity there is so-called network activities, so above all, electrical energy and natural gas. However, with further development, EU regulation and HERA itself are increasing the role of public obligations, public services, and the recent public reporting obligation, i.e. the involvement of the public concerned in the work of the regulatory agency and in a certain supervisory of events in the energy sector. 2011 may be considered a transitional year in Croatian energy, a year of preparation for the period that has arrived. What is important is that the market for electricity was the first to open the market more noticeably in that year, the conditions were legally created, but several alternative electricity suppliers appeared in that year, some of which were shy at first, and later became somewhat more active market participants. This was therefore the beginning of electricity, something which will take place a year later, so at the end of 2012, but this will be the subject of the next report, it happened in natural gas and in a more significant volume than it was realistic to expect. But in 2011, I say it was the beginning of the opening of the electricity market in the practical sense of the word and preparing for it to happen a year later and in natural gas. The security of supply, both in electricity and natural gas, could be considered satisfactory. In electricity in that hydrological year, some 44% of electricity was imported, so from the position of HEP it was not a pleasant year, as well as the year that followed. However, security of supply as such and its continuity were mostly satisfactory. There were also no major problems in natural gas in this context, but there was one important infrastructure fact, which is that in the second half of 2011, an interconnector with Hungary was opened, so the physical prerequisite for the market to open and that alternative gas appeared on the Croatian energy market until then to the sole bidder. Infrastructure has been upgraded to some extent in electricity, but I say everything in 2011 was a year without revolution. During 2011, the Regulatory Agency carried out several adjustments to secondary legislation, i.e. rules on further opening of the market, several improved regulations on cross-border trade in electricity, adopted for the first time the rules on connection, the rules on connections and the connection in the natural gas area, while in the heat segments and some other parts, for example renewable sources and biofuels were largely retained on the licensing segment and on the monitoring of events. So that's where her influence is smaller. If I can just spend a little bit of your time putting this time in the context of the development of the entire regulation in the last ten years. In 2000, i.e. 2001, with the real launch of reforms in the Croatian energy sector which at that time had a long-term vision of becoming compatible with European energy, regulation was also launched, regulation as a way to control natural monopolies and how to gradually implement the obligations imposed through the European energy strategy. The European Energy Strategy is also something that has been developing for years and not only for this reason, Croatian energy also had at least three stages in the context of regulation. During the first period, the regulator was to identify market operators so that the period between 2001 and 2004, i.e. the period between 2001 and 2005, was dominated by the granting of licences, i.e. the identification of market participants. Afterwards, it started with the first group of economic problems, i.e. the adoption of the first methodologies and the first tariff systems for monopoly activities within energy. The part that coincided with the change of the regulation law at that time took a period of 5 to 6 years and after one step in 2010 to 2011 we entered a third phase which was in some way written with this new regulation law from last year, which is a phase in which we are really going to open the market and in which time is very tight because we are actually facing the involvement of the European Union within which the Croatian regulator should become one of the European regulators. We therefore have an extremely difficult and intense period in which we also need to adapt the implementing rules to what should work in the European Union. But in the 2011 report, you will find relatively short comments. It can be noted that the role of the public, the role of public service here may be less treated and to some extent formally observed. This is something that the same in the meantime is trying to do and what this team that is currently leading HERA, so the administrative council that I am currently president of, is really trying to affirm the role of the public in both regulation and monitoring. We think that such an approach is both a guarantee and what we as a regulator must be, which is an independent body that defends both the position of customers, the position of energy operators and the position of investors in energy, while on the other hand retains the role of the public. It is certainly not a simple process, which takes place, but in which we are really making a lot of effort and we hope that this Croatian Parliament will also help us to fulfill this function and maintain the position of our independence, which is particularly potential for us at the end of last year of the new regulation law. Finally, only briefly on the element of meeting the energy regulatory agency's budget. So in 2011, as it can see in its documents, HERA achieved revenues at around 27 million kuna, and it had expenditures somewhere near 17, which means it achieved almost 10 million surplus revenues over expenditures. The result was, above all, conservative regulation development policies, so there was a certain reserve of funds that were not realised at the time. Something similar happened in the year after that. In 2012, on a proposal from the regulatory agency, the government of the Republic of Croatia reduced one basic source of revenue from the regulatory agency which is otherwise financed in its largest part of the energy entities, so the regulatory agency is not budget-funded, it is more financed at this time than 0.5, and at the moment this report was generated by 0.6 of the income of energy entities regulated by HERA. With the somewhat reduced elections we are now, and thanks to the reserves of previous years, we have a round budget and for the perspective of our work which will have significantly higher expenditure on one hand because of the need to meet additional obligations we also have the need for additional experts and the need for external independent services. It is a very specialist problem, things that are mostly precedentd in Croatia, i.e. for the first time. So not only by volume but also by character and intensity of business. HERA has one significantly different role than the time in which this report is written. So please, or I suggest you adopt this report as it is written while counting on your cooperation, on your proposals. The time we're in is not this time or business, nor is the team headed the same. Anyway, for now, I think this is enough to start with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35356	Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening up a debate, and it's up to the representatives' clubs. On behalf of Croatian Labourers' Club Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35357	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored colleague Jurekovic, colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning of the report, Mr. Jurekovic said HERA is responsible for the work of the Parliament, which is totally incorrect. She corresponds formally to the Parliament. If he were to answer to the Parliament then the report would not have been submitted two days before the new year. The 2011 report was submitted 2 days before the new year 2012. What is this responsibility and respect for the Parliament, and what is this respect for the Parliament’s obligations? Mr. Jurekovic said he didn't, that he only said in the report that the report should be submitted, but the deadline was not defined. The deadline is normal, if it isn't defined... A decent time to talk about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're almost in the second quarter of 2013. And wouldn't it make sense at that time to discuss the 2012 reports to see what happened in 2012. We know how much trouble Croatia is under pressure, we know that the situation has changed significantly over the last year. What was in 2011 we thought in 2012 at the beginning of the bad it is now 2012. We know in 2013 much worse and we deal with problems, reports in 2011, and we do not solve problems that are the same in 2012 and 2013. Now I'm going to tell a little story that most of us probably know, but just to remind ourselves. We call the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency HERA, and we know that HERA is the ultimate Greek goddess of Zeus' sister and wife. Hera is the goddess of marriage, and Pandan Harry is in the Roman mythology of Junon. Hera's father was a Titan Kronos because he saw his children as a potential threat, a great competition. Titan swallowed his children, so he swallowed Hera. Then how could HERA marry Zeus? Now you have to look for it yourself. I'm not gonna tell you a story anymore. Hera, however, married Zeus, and seen what is the link between Here Mythological and HERA, which is also becoming a Croatian myth. So we here in this House of Commons are discussing and the government accepts something that actually corresponded to the previous government, HDZ's authority. And what's most interesting is all the reports we're discussing here we accept. That's what HDZ does for a living. I don't know every time it's accepted, even those people who have criticized the agencies we're discussing now suddenly accept. Yeah, yeah, report yes. I know what it is. Don't throw your friend away, please. You're a liberal party bar. At this time, we see in the media even early elections, and we talk about the former government. So, it could happen that those two authorities in the back are talking. This is proof of how much Parliament respects itself, how important we are a body, how much someone suits us. I think it's just a form. This way of working is a complete underestimation of a parliament that is at least under the Constitution over the government. Looks like the Parliament is coming from the government, not the Government of the Parliament. We're being treated here in the Parliament as a service of ministers, government, so you can see both agencies and public companies. We turn out to be lost in time. Of all critics, the greatest is the most agile, infallible critic of time, and we are lost in time. And the time neither of you who are from the ruling coalition, and since you are our authority, the Croatian government then neither does the rest of us. You're all together, and we all need to be aware. And now I'm going to do the same thing about the history of HERA, not goddesses, but our HERA of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. I will only prove to you, in fact, to the Croatian public that, in fact, as HERA treats the Croatian public because Mr Jurekovic told the definition of what HERA is actually doing, energy subjects should be protected and Croatian citizens should also be protected from these same Croatian energy entities. Let's just say that in one row, the chairman of the HERA Board of Directors was Tomo Galic. He came to HERA from HEP whose business was to be monitored. HERA, or Mr. Galic, has been overseeing JANAF from which they buy the building for 50 million kuna. Everyone claimed at the time it was much more than a real price. After being removed, Mr. Galic returned to HERA. Neither departure nor return, in fact departure and return to conflict are with the Law on the Regulation of Energy Subjects. This example suggests that Hera's independence is a common duck, a myth. Now we come to this myth, a myth like a myth about a mythic HERA. This hera was not swallowed by the Titan but swallowed by the government, swallowed by a policy that determines energy prices and draws all the strings. HERA is just a swallowed fig leaf. HERA, of course, was never an independent body and had never, without intervention, decided anything by itself or by itself. If the government hadn't told the public before HERA the prices of gas, electricity, heating. The government would not ban Hera's proposals and give pucks to Hera's bosses, which is why they dared to alert the public with their seemingly arbitrary prices. The intervention of the state is then welcome even to those who are against the intervention of the state. And we know that where there is no society, where the rule of law does not rule politics over everything. So politics decides on the Croatian goddess HERA. And what kind of report this is, to mention the report, it's a collection of data collected in one place that doesn't reveal the essence. The saddest thing is the fact that HERA sent its report, as I had already said before, to the government and parliament two days before the end of 2012. Can a state with such a system, with such urgency, with this responsibility be successful? It certainly cannot, it is not successful and because we think this report is actually one big farce Croatian Labourists will not support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35358	Thank you. The chairman of the board of directors, Mr. Jurekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35359	Thank you very much. I may have failed to highlight two details which may not be irrelevant in the context of the commentary of the honourable representative. So, the Energy Regulation Act, which changed in the autumn, has adopted a realistic deadline for submitting reports on the past year and set it in 6 months. So I hope to have an opportunity for about 3 months to report this House on the results of 2012. in the second part of which my Board of Directors and I have begun to act and influence the work of the regulatory agency. I thank you for all these remarks. In any case, these are the things that we are trying to do and that we will try to change in the reception and behavior and work of HERA. But I'm saying, this Administrative Council considered it its obligation, regardless of what I'm president of the 8th month last year, to carry out its formal obligation and that what the predecessors did not do to fulfill this report and that this Parliament, however technically and formally, it still submits and fulfils its legal obligation in that sense. I am truly convinced and I assure you, and when I have asked your support in the future to change the work of HERA her character will be seen already in the report that you will have on the table for which 3 months. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35360	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35361	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Management Council, colleagues and colleagues. Not to mention, of course, the predecessor who said that this government does not know what space, time or something like that I am in the name of the HNS club can clearly say that this government knows very well what space and time we live in, and we do not look back too much, but we just look at and analyze what we found, what we have, including what we found in HERA and we expect, of course, and we give full support to HERA's work not in the way that you have to admit a little politics, politics, politics, politics. Of course politics is both in the government and in the Croatian Parliament but the policy we expect HERA to be clear and loud. This is what we often say and we always say when we discuss reports, most often by the defenders, which we have which the Croatian Parliament has chosen. We also expect from regulatory agencies because neither we nor the previous government nor the previous assembly of parliaments that have harmonised all documents and laws with the EU, harmonized we are not doing this in order to do this form and we are not doing it, nor will we continue to comply with the directives until we join the EU, work to satisfy the form or some kind of populism, but we truly expect HERA to be, not a spokeswoman, but a literal regulator. And I agree, of course, with the regulator at the service of the first segment and key consumers, customers, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, investors and, of course, those involved in distribution. What we also expect in the future is that in order to ensure the necessary development of the market, and the market can only provide the highest quality supply, and the best quality energy and the most favourable prices, of course, with all the protections that we have in the Electricity Market Act for all those customers that we need to protect in the social category or possibly in the case of the fallout from the system of operators that will deliver this to customers. It is crucial for us in the HNS club to function properly in the electricity market and what is important, we expect HERA to be the one who, apart from regulating that they will warn, will appear, that they will call out only in the interest of the functioning of the electricity market and the protection of customers. That's what we expect, and that's what we believe and what's key to all the laws we've passed, not just the Law on the electricity and gas market, and that's the implementation of those laws as really necessary for the Republic of Croatia. What we have naturally received in the report is good tomorrow when we analyse certain data, when we compare the work regardless of what the regulation changes the legal and powers of HERA which was in 2011 and tomorrow. But from this data to notice one situation reflected today, which is a demonstration of the achieved investments of the HEP and HEP of the ODS that I don't, of course, read all of this data that you all have. What is crucial is investment preparation, investment preparation was 3 times smaller in 2010 and 2011 in HEP OPS than it was in 2008. And that's what killed caused the good part of the delay in starting investments, is without good preparation, of course without the projects you can't start building. What is also important to show in view of the situation that we have and we also see the figures on losses within the system, which is also completely bad, unnecessary and should be resolved, which is that we have both 2010 and 2011. 0 Kuna, that's what the HERA report says, means 0 kuna. Both in 2010 and 2011, in the reconstruction, in the ODS and OPS, we have extremely reduced resolutions and reconstructions. And these are the data that we expect from HERA, not only to put in tables so that we prepare for discussions on behalf of clubs or individually draw and conclude, but these are key things, key elements of development, maintaining the market which electricity makes oil and gas. And that's the job that we expect as a regulator, that he directs, that he also says in this direction or that direction should be improved. It is not enough investment, of course, because of what you and the new law have the possibility of entering absolute analysis and the balance sheet of all distributors, operators, manufacturers, etc. Of course, by supporting and respecting the discretion of business secrets. However, we are all aware that today and just by entering the EU all data, not only public but also private companies, are available to everyone through FINA. And these are the things that I believe most of us in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of which option we expect HERA to do in such a way. To regulate the market spottically, to point out shortcomings, we are not to resolve complaints within the deadline, refuses or accepts in view of the market situation that will exist, but we expect it to react, indicate and improve. To improve and point to what is necessary in order not to be importers, so as not to lose us, so as not to have a problem with the supply of electricity and we expect that segment to be clear and loud. Of course, what is more important to our citizens than supply is the price, which is what we expect to be in the right sense just, analytical, which can and must ensure the normal functioning of those who produce it, and distribute but not allow margins and additional profits. Of course, we will support this 2011 report as a technical report and as regards the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35362	Thank you very much. We have three replicas on your exhibit. A colleague, Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35363	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Gjurkovic. in your presentation, you refer to the discussion of your colleague Vuksic and you resent him for politicising the events that took place last year, and you yourself say that that year was recorded by the settlement of the almost chaotic situation you inherited and that you would not in any way refer to the HERE 2011 report in your report. A year more than you continue in that tone for which you call Mr Vuksic. And I'll just remind you when you're talking about the fact that last year has passed in the energy sector, that then I remind you of the out-of-scene events of yesterday when the Ministry of Finance to carry out budgetary surveillance, the financial control of the business of JANAF must call for the police to enter JANAF in order to actually carry out this budgetary control of the funds of a public undertaking very important in the energy sector managed by the director from the HNS and the control of the operations of JANAF should be carried out by the finance minister coming from the SDP ranks. As for what HERA did last year. I think HERA missed three important moments when it really needed to be shown to an independent agency in the Republic of Croatia. The first time she did not look back at the 20% electricity collection, when the government, without consent, brought an increase in the price of electricity. The second time when the Government, or the Ministry of Finance in this Chamber, proposed on behalf of the Government, rather than the Ministry of Economy disbursed the HANDU and the Croatian market operator, the energy market of the original funds that belonged to them according to the law at the time, making these two agencies absolutely dependent on the state budget and are no longer independent of the Croatian energy market. That's where HERA missed work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35364	Thank you. Reply to the replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35365	My dear colleague, you've really had small mini-exposures, it's hard in two minutes for everyone to try to answer. So of course I'm commenting on what my colleague Vuksic is saying as you comment on what I'm saying. So where are we going to comment but not in the Croatian Parliament, of course, in a way suitable for this House of Commons. The debate about whether we talked, if I was talking about the report, I said that he was technically that we accepted him. So discuss these things. Of course, that's what we're kind of competing in here for. You're of course using the possibility that you're trying to add the so-called. Oil on fire if there's any fire, and there's no fire in the coalition. So Janaf is a stock company. And you know by the Commercial Society Act that it is a stock company with shareholders and that JANAF is not on the budget or that it is mostly on the market, therefore budgetary supervision cannot be done by the Ministry of Finance, the tax administration can work in this second segment in which the segment is in the control of companies and it is nothing disputed. And yet I just have to say that we at the HNS are not only personally absolutely, and we are looking and it is necessary to monitor, to control and diaphragm and welcome the absolute segment when it comes to the media to control and monitor, of course all of us together are not the most satisfied when an elephant is done by the mouse but the control absolutely is yes, the legality absolutely is. And as for HANDA, HANDA moves on to the budget as a budgetary user. You know that in Slovenia there is such an agency for oil, oil reserve derivatives even the department of the Ministry of Economy, therefore this is the form in which any government will essentially decide how. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35366	Thank you. Next replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35367	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Gjurkovic, you said in your debate that HERA must be at the service of the citizens, i.e. consumers, distributors, that they should report that they must protest, warn and, of course, be independent. It is clear from everything over the past year and a half that it is the least in consumer protection and is at least independent. The proof of this is that the famous permit for the collection of heating in six cities that came perhaps ten days after the government wanted it to happen, i.e. to transfer responsibility only to another body that is also hers but that can't be said, so it's not the government, but it's been solved by some agency. What we got from that new one of hers... We got more expensive heating, we got more expensive electricity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And since the business of your people's sector is here's the question of HEP. You took 800 million kunas to Croatian citizens last year at a power collection and showed a million kuna gain higher than in 2011 when there was no electricity collection. Where all these huge investments announced at the beginning of the term of office went missing. We heard that Plomin C will be built, Ombla will be built, the Kosinj, Senj hydropower plant will be built, etc. We'll be independent of energy, even exporting that energy. Half the term's over, all that's lost. What's the reason for 30 percent or 20 percent of what's already happened? It doesn't exist. You said that hydrometeorological conditions. This year is extremely rainy, the conditions are good, then we lower the price to the citizens if that was the reason to raise electricity prices. No investments, no investments, that's the only fact. And HERAs will be fine with this kind of collection because their budget will certainly fill citizens a little more than it was for 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35368	Replication response, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35369	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In my presentation, I even made it clear how weak the preparation of the investment was in 2010 and 2011 in addition to doing major projects that are under way, and it was clearly said that these are long-term projects, strategic projects so that Croatia would not be an importer of electricity, we have here a report that 44% actually produced electricity in 2011. That's the strategy, the government doesn't say lost in time and space with every project taking time. and here you have the average distribution price for the period 2008-2010-2011, so you have the continuity of one price. It is a policy that you have led, a policy of extracting profits from Croatian electricity, a policy that is not based on the formation of real and necessary prices on the market. If we are all for the market economy then there must be a market price. It must not have as I said in exposing excess profits and margins but therefore there is a Regulatory Agency and it is good that it exists. And that's why not only you, but we too, if we're not satisfied with the way it's regulated, we're going to make it clear because it's our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35370	And Dujomir Marasovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35371	Your Honor, Madam President. My colleague Gjurkovic, you've thrown a lot of stuff in there. HERA Consumer protection, making investments, so you brought down the previous government that it hadn't prepared any investments for you, so you said both this and that, but in the end you said there's no fire in the coalition. Well, tell us because there is no fire in the coalition, no idea in the coalition, no force in the coalition, no hope in the coalition of fellow Gjurkovic. Just because there's no fire, there's no hope. You expect HERA to settle your investments and create an investment plan for you. The government must create a plan, the government must have a brain, the government must run this country, the government is responsible for investments. What did you come here with after eight years in opposition? What are you guys up to? You have no idea for a year and a half of what should be done and now you're finally arguing whether those 100 bats should protect Ombley. And who will protect the 1,500 households? Ž Prekjučer was an official debate on Radio Split in the wider area of Split, 1500 households of his colleague Gjurkovic cannot pay for electricity and did not ask for connection to electricity again. 1500 times 4 is how many people? Who's going to protect them and we're talking about bats, and the Prime Minister enters the organisational board, the organization of the Croatia-Serbia match, I guess there's going to be a sergeant there so people don't yell, which I know what. Well, it's not the role of the Prime Minister to bring investment here, but rather to make an Omble instead of keeping order there at the Croatia-Serbia game in Maxime. That's what monks do. This is the government's understanding that it will now regulate the game's playoffs in Maksimir, not investments in Croatia. That's our problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35372	Thank you. Reply to the replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35373	Well, you didn't owe me any of that in terms of the breadth of the debate and the commentary. You've covered quite a bit. So first I'll tell you when we're talking about investment, of course it's not HERA that's going to invest. But I'll just remind you, obviously I have to remind you that Article 57. The electricity market law defines that, among other things, HERA lays down the appropriate measures necessary for the development of competition and the proper functioning of the electricity market. And what is it but an analysis of the situation from loss to necessity to ensure normal functioning and normally as HERA make sure that we as Croatia have our own production, not to import on this issue. So as for what you often say as our citizens do not live well, I guess it's clear to you that you've brought these citizens into this situation back in 2008, in 2009, saying that the crisis is gone, the crisis is gone, then when the crisis comes, it's all too late, so we're where we are. So I just want to tell you that what we adopted in the Electricity Market Act and that is the guaranteed electricity price for all those consumers who are unable to pay neatly from their incomes, to ensure them guaranteed, and together with the Ministry of Social Care and with all services will absolutely provide all the electricity. Therefore, you do not need to cause any panic. The system, however, works better and better, and I believe that it will make the citizens understand and understand and see that they feel.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35374	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a colleague, Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35375	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I agree with my colleague Vuksic that in 2013 it is a little immaterial when we talk about such an important thing as the energy report of HERA, too late to talk but not to repeat what my colleague Bačić said, probably over the past months, since the report was in December finished inside the coalition some other things were entertained so we could not discuss such important topics as energy here in the Croatian Parliament. With transport infrastructure definitely in the 21st century, energy infrastructure is the most important thing not only for households, not only for Croatian citizens, so for households but for the Croatian economy and without a competitive and without a serious Energy strategy, we won't be able to get out of this crisis that has been going on for the past year and a few days more and more unfortunately deepening than will happen exactly the opposite. Unfortunately, however, my predecessors did not talk about the essence of the report, so I'll say a few sentences about what really happened in 2011. Among other things, we had to adapt our legal system to another energy directive package in the European Community as part of the EU accession process, and we restructured the energy system accordingly. So a whole series of laws and regulations have been passed that create assumptions for better integration within the energy system, as well as the opening of our energy system towards neighbouring countries. Two important, really important investments in this sense, so two major infrastructure projects, one is the construction of an interconnection pipeline connecting the transport gas systems of Croatia and Hungary, the second is the construction of 400 kilovoltaic power lines between the Ernestinovo and Pecuh. Also what this report says, I hope you read it, is next. For example. that was in 2011. 16.7% of our electricity came from NE Krško, 46% came from hydroelectric power plants, 52% from what was produced in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, 46% from hydropower, 52% from thermal power plants and 2% from wind power plants. Unfortunately, other forms of renewable energy are minimal. So we need to talk here about how we don't pay after 2020, because at this rate we're going to have a hard time getting... 20% from renewable energy sources. It should also be discussed that, the fact is that tourism is unfortunately one of the few economic branches that is progressing and, given our position, therefore, tourism is mostly a few months unfortunately present in Croatia, so there somewhere between the 5th and 9th, 10th months, so this presents a special challenge precisely for the energy sector. What the report also says is that from 2006 to 2011 when we talk about the quality of the supply, or the reliability of electricity supply, the annual number of power cuts per buyer from 6.5 dropped to 3. That's what matters. So it also writes in which parts of Croatia that quality of supply, i.e. the security of supply of electricity, is more significant, and where it is smaller, so where it should be directed primarily HEP of its efforts, given that we all want to develop Croatia evenly, so that it is. Keep going. What he also writes, and his colleague, Boric, pointed out perfectly that we were within the European Union from about 4 to 5 years 2008 to 2011 among the most favourable for electricity prices, both for households and for Croatian families and entrepreneurs. This could not be said for the past year when you have actually made it possible for monopolies everywhere to raise prices for the economy that is on the verge of collapse and for Croatian families. Keep going. What is certainly clear to all of us, which is that, as soon as Croatia joins the European Union, the entire energy sector will also be under additional pressure, so there is no doubt that our investments, therefore, need to be significantly accelerated. There is no doubt that first of all we need to have an excessive energy strategy because if about 70% of the report says in today's report of our gas needs we have from our domestic needs then there is probably a chance that in some parts of Croatia, both at sea and on the continent, there are new sources of gas, and then we should probably focus our efforts in this direction. Keep going. A few more sentences just about Hera itself. So I have already mentioned that in these past six years we have made significant efforts to adapt legislation to the European Union, so, of course, in this direction, we have been established and HERA. Since the start of its operation, HERA has paid particular attention to the organisational structure and training of personnel since it is obvious that when you establish such an important institution then it takes some time for people to be educated and in this regard it is very important that people who work in HERA given the importance of HERA and the position as independent agencies are educated and able to manage with regard to the responsibility they have as an independent agency. Here's from all I've said it is clear that HERA is very important for our energy sector and for future development, however, it should also be made clear here, and that the government cannot escape from this responsibility and competent ministry and of course, regardless of what counterpart Vuksic said, that in every serious country, in any over-rule policy, it is primarily expected from the public administration, that the government is giving a strategy and that it directs work, especially to a system as important as that energy sector. In any case, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the 2011 HERA report. We look forward to it, as you said, that in 3 months, there will be a report for 2012, I think it is particularly important, given that things around us, not only in our environment, but generally globally, are accelerating and not simplifying. Here's to the end I thank you and since we won't see each other, at least not from this pay phone, I wish you and your families all the best for the coming Easter holidays.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35376	Thank you very much. We want you, too. We have four replicas. Comrade Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35377	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you said in your debate that you mentioned relations within electricity prices and compared it with the previous time. The fact is that in the past time, so until the arrival of this government, Croatian consumers had a more favourable price and could thus service their accounts within the home budget. However, we have today the fact that not only in the part of electricity but also in the price of gasoline, we are witnessing historically the highest prices of gasoline that no one in this country has tried to influence absolutely. Today we pay the price of gasoline almost kuna and 30 or kuna or half. There was a time and a quarter more than two years ago, and at the same time, the INA shows the profit measured in billions of kunas. It means that citizens are solely in the capacity to finance the profits of these public enterprises, and we do not have investment from these companies either from HEP or from INA. They're almost gone. Some two billion kuna investments last year are listed here. It's just some kind of maintenance. We don't have strong investments. And then we have a situation here in the House, we're discussing this House of Nature Protection Act. Maybe today we'll vote on it, I think we will, which already at the beginning is possible and makes it impossible, say, one part of the investment in hydropower plants, because we declare one area quite broadly protected and we certainly won't even think about the hydropower plants that I was already talking about, Kosinj, Senj, Molve, etc. Because it simply won't acquire the conditions of spatial-planning or planning documentation that they begin to be built. And all the mistakes in running these public companies are being transferred to the citizens. That's the only truth. And they say in this system the only ones left unprotected. The distributors took care of themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35378	Thank you. I didn't see anything from my colleague, Boric. Did you answer for the answer? You're not. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35379	Dear fellow Milosevic, look, it is very important to determine really in practice what HERA is. The relationship between HERA and the authorities, the relationship between HERA and politics, not what the law says, but how we behave in practice. You know very well that we have a great set of laws, we have, we coordinate, we're constantly coordinating something. Never to live. We used to coordinate, prepare for the state, now we've made a state, and now we're coordinating for the European Union. I don't know what we're going to coordinate with later, and we can't begin what we're harmonising with in the legislation and we can't begin to apply it in practice. It should be made clear whether HERA is an independent regulatory agency, or an independent regulatory body, or whether it is an agency that assists the Government in forming energy policy. If it is, one can't be. She's in between somewhere. That's why I used to talk about Hera's bribe, because it's about Hera, you know, at a time when you were in power, you know well how it was handled when it came to free price formation that the state intervened, which is certainly what we are, that the state intervenes, that it corrects prices, etc. But we don't really know what the right part is. And now to use a little bit of a different rhetoric based on how politics is run by this country, or the government of this country, we won't be needing electricity soon, but we're going to have petroleums.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35380	The reply to the replica Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35381	I hope not, but in any case, the answer is probably somewhere in balance, in the balance between what is expected of the smart state and the smart government, which is to manage, that it has a strategy, that it knows clear national objectives, in this case energy targets, and on the other hand, that you have an energy agency that will in some way balance between consumers, so to monitor those who supply manufacturers and enable that what the government wants, therefore, is an energy strategy in this case both energy to be realized and controlled on a daily basis. My personal position now can say and that is that I think that given the importance of energy it would be too many countries, successful countries have separate ministries of energy. Now somewhere in that balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35382	Thank you. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35383	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues of Mr. Hera. Here I will take the opportunity to ask you since there is a gas connection in the building where I live in Zagreb, but I have no gas consumption. The valve's twisted and there's no connection at all to any consumption, but here's exactly this time I can show you, so one payment that's called an advance war, an advance gas war of 20 kunas exactly and 63 limes. Well, if it was HERA that regulated that one who doesn't spend any gas at all, so there's no spending on having to pay neatly and regularly, neatly very likely, right, but regularly paying 20 kunas and 63 June for something he doesn't have at all, which he doesn't use, then here's the honor of our HERA. Because like your colleague said about that goddess Greek, but it's actually a little farce. What is the role and task of HERA here is numbered in the introductory part, and among other things, that is, in the activities carried out by HERA, the issue of permits to carry out energy activities, the issue of a solution to obtaining the status of a privileged producer, the adoption of tariff systems. One of them is probably the one about the increase in the price of heating that was in October last year. It is not in this report, though, because this is a 2011 report, so almost a year and a half are already late. Therefore, the increase in the price of heating during this government or how you say new people in HERA of 36.7% is so for, that it is determined for the big cities of the 6 largest cities around the Republic of Croatia, Zagreb, Velika Gorica, Sisak, Osijek, Zaprešić, Samobor or regulation, i.e. the increase in the price of heating was done in other cities before and before this decision of HERA, with the approval of HERA. So if the only task of HERA is to regulate higher energy prices, then we really don't need HERA because we have those who increase the prices of everything else and therefore electricity and other energy and heating in the Ministry of Finance. Turns out HERA is actually unnecessary. She does not respond to the Croatian Parliament, she only submits the Report to the Croatian Parliament and nothing else. And with a 14-month delay. So this report was delivered on December 28th last year for 2011, so a year, exactly one year late. When will the 2012 report be? Let's hope it won't be Christmas this year, but I guess it should be before summer fairies. In my speech that I followed closely and listened to, you said that the energy sources were reduced, at one point you said so. And I think that what may not be the task of HERA taking care of the energy strategy of Croatia, and it actually goes into that area and should also be dealt with if nothing else consultatively, then this very energy strategy of the Croatian state is actually not defined. Well, then maybe there's a problem with HERA to define their jobs and their obligations. Therefore, this unpleasant position is being overrun and to the performance of the tasks that HERA has. I've been gone for a long time these days, and I've been on my way from Frankfurt Airport to Strasbourg by somewhere in Manheim or somewhere by a bus, and I've been walking past a department store, or a major subway store, so I don't now advertise to a company that's separated from a highway by one to say a small hill. On that hill in Germany, so it's somewhere in the middle of Germany, and neither the north nor the south are somehow placed in the middle of a number of panels, photo cells as we already say it, there are thousands of them I would say. And it's in Germany that's foggy, wet with a little sunny days, etc. What I'm interested in, and in line with the development of our power system and what in which case HERA might get in a few years and the role of changing its trend of change and regulation of these prices upwards than down would just be the development of the power generation sector. In that Germany, thousands of these photovoltaic cells are scattered on that hill and clearly collect these scarce rays of sunshine and convert it into electricity. We got caught up in it, and there's nothing coming out of HERA, I don't know if it's even her job, to just build a Plomin C, 3 what's it called as our VC highway, so is Plomin 3C, etc. So on the coal that Croatia does not have, which Croatia will import. So again, it's a kind of import lobby. With us, it insists on some OMBLA which is clear either electricity or bats I would call it yes, and not only bats there are 106 kinds of animal kingdoms in the underground and underground of OMBLA but it is true that we are positioning ourselves in the electrical independence of the Republic of Croatia. But I would rather insist on putting in place what Europe has put in place, which is the 20/20 that we already leave 20% of the production of energy from renewable, sustainable and cost-effective sources of energy once. So, renewable, sustainable and cost-effective. And you can do that. Croatia can do this and Croatia has it. Here we see, according to this report, what Hera was really worried about, what was running her and what she was actually bringing. In fact, that report is almost what I would say, sort of numbered to show the work of HERA in which it has, for example. 5 directors of the sector except for that board of directors of the agency where the president, vice president, has 3 members and there are 5 sectors whether each of them has one director. So now you can think of the director as going further by structure and hierarchy that sector, which has everything but the director. It says here that in your activities there is also an opinion or consent to rules and regulations in the energy sector. Here's another example of life for years on the island of Vir, there were people who introduced and by agreement with HEP or I don't know the government, the ministry, HERA what kind of electricity on illegal weekend facilities on the island of Vir. And that's for a lot of money. I've personally introduced electricity into my holiday house, and I know how much it cost me, and I'm not going to talk here, but it's really pretty. So I'm also interested in you when you're here to take another chance on how to get private persons, private persons, or how do three people to get it on behalf of HEP who's a monopoliest who's a state-owned firm, get the right to introduce electricity and at the price at which they probably form and determine themselves? Is that supposed to regulate HERA? Oh, no? I don't know. So, simply the electricity was leased, the electricity was leased, electricity and facilities that we all built together from our taxes and what we inherited from that former state suddenly went into the lease, to tell almost private people who have a company registered and they introduce electricity to both who and who, or how many who. In addition to what the transaction between HERA and ANAF is for a building where, a business building and a 50 million kuna transaction, I wouldn't want to talk because the data, because the details I don't know, maybe there's some other detail in there like Mountain City, but that's not what I'd be talking about. Perhaps Mr. Bajic has something to say about it if he finds it interesting. But I would like to say on the other hand, when you are already taking care of all forms of the energy system then I must mention that, when I mentioned JANAF, this same JANAF that transports and transports Russian oil to the refinery in the Bosnian ship and that it never occurred to HERA to say that this relatively dirty Russian oil pollutes citizens of the Slavonian ship with sulfur dioxide, sulfurous hydrogen, benzene and those floating ones, to say to the particles that are in the air in Slavon ship. In addition, it is not just about the amount, the concentration of these substances in the air, but about the reduced quality of life of citizens of Slavonski Brod and the County of Brod-Posavina in a circle covering about 100,000 inhabitants. And even the many who travel further east to Slavonia towards Djakov or north of Slavonia Osijek say they pass through Slavonic ship by highway smell. How is it that HERA has never asked whether JANAF is a regulatory agency and, in the end, we also have a sector here, i.e. regulatory advice, consumer advice, etc. how that no one has ever reacted, nor has this government, nor has this minister that he had in connection with environmentals. There's a great honor for fellow Holly who started a process in connection with that refinery, but good. Here I have found a way in the European Parliament, or in the Committee on the Environment, which will raise the issue, and then you may have to do something when it comes from above, when it comes from those who, in fact, have laws, so we adopt European laws. As in Fadeev's case, perhaps Mrs. Holly knows about the sadness, a Russian statesman who experienced the fact that a refinery was built beside his house and who sued the Russian state for it and won a dispute in court, the European Union for the reduction of quality of life. Because he can't take his child for a walk, because he can't dry his clothes on the terrace, because he can't drink coffee in his backyard. Not because of concentrations that were high, benzene, sulfurous hydrogen, etc. Here and now we have, here I've seen in your list of these energy producers etc. And one producer, I'm not going to name now, which plans on the other side of the Slavon ship from the refinery to open up the thermal power plant, the gas heat. So it's fossil fuel. We need to know that it's fossil fuel, that that's not how I said it at first sustainable, renewable, maybe it's worth it, the only one argument is worth it for now, for now. Because if the Russian gasses, it's not worth it again. So, on the other hand, the Slavonian ship will be opened, powered if, again, it will produce nitrogen compounds as a by-product during the operation of the thermopower plant and heat plant, ammonia, nitrogen dioxide, etc. All nitrogen compounds that come in contact with water know what, nitrogenic acids. So on the one hand, we're going to have sulfuric and sulfuric acid from the refinery, and on the other side of the thermopower plant and heat, we're going to have nitrogen compounds, nitrogenic acid. We are not followed by another one there in the Ship, with the expensive heating we already have and which are difficult for people to endure with their incomes and situation in Slavonia, indeed disastrous economic, economic bad condition, they bear this difficult state and yet here we are and poisoning us without HERA sitting in the Governing Council and the man from Slavonski Brod is not responding at all. And you know who he is or should I tell you about Mr. Pudic, shall I say clearly and loudly that there is no more hiding. We've been thinking about what happened to this report of yours, so it went through for 2011, as it says: Oh, yeah? So there's nothing for or against, it's just as it's written here and there's nothing to discuss, but given the dissatisfaction that I've said we're not going to be in or out because it's practically a factual state that's been found.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35384	Thank you. Bring the hearing to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35385	So we'll be restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35386	Thank you. We move to replicas, Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35387	Thank you, Madam Vice President. counterpart Grubisic, so you rightly said, asked if it made sense that there is such an agency when it only advertises in the event of a decision to collect electricity. So she didn't even answer in the last electricity collection that significantly affected the standard of all citizens, she didn't even answer in 2012. It did not come forward for reasons because it was obvious that it would have the opposite view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which called for the 2010 procedure that was launched to increase energy prices. So Milanovic's government collected electricity and took citizens out of their pockets last year for 800 million kuna. What does that mean? That means they didn't collect electricity to give HEP a loss of nearly billions of kuna. So they covered their incompetence by taking the citizens out of the pocket of 800 million kuna. It's clear what this is all about. And the second thing HERA obviously failed to fulfil its task of giving an opinion on such a collection because it was founded precisely because of this function to give a very clear view as an independent institution whether such a collection is justified. However, this attitude was not expressed, and HERA failed to fulfil its position of opinion on the collection in order to prevent an unwarranted collection of electricity by a monopoly in this case to the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35388	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35389	Thank you, colleague Matušić, I was also talking about this actually fake or pseudo independence of our HERA or our Government Hera would say although it should be an NGO but that's how it is. But what I'm worried about, and I didn't mention, I think the price of electricity will go on and on, unfortunately, I don't want to be a bad or bad prophet because there are unreasonable moves in terms of investments in the electricity industry, so instead of using the possibilities of one to say not to buy but to make one transaction with the Chapina hydropower plant. It's going to invest some hydropower plants in Dubrovnik where there are even bigger environmental problems and it's clear that such construction of a new or investment in a new Dubrovnik hydropower plant two seems to me to be called much more expensive than whether investing in an already completed hydropower plant offered by our neighbor or a good neighbour or a country that is currently in good or especially not our part in Chapina, right? It's 6 times more investment than we could use to use the offer that exists for the Chapin hydropower plant. But when we build it, if it is built clearly, once again HERA will react to the government's request, or at the direction of the government, with an increase in electricity prices to cover this particular investment if it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35390	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35391	Dear counterpart Grubisic that I repeat it has no independence from HERA, HERA was swallowed by the government rather than by the Titan Kronos. It should be asked how the HERA did not respond to claims from HEP that when the OMBLA was built, imports of electricity will decrease by 8% when we know it will decrease by 3%. How she didn't get into the argument that it was a risky construction job. Let's just say why HERA wasn't as obvious in that 400 megawatts of private investment in wind power plants. Why the Croatian electricity industry didn't enter the wind power plants. Why does it leave itself, which has announced investments. The investments didn't come true. We know well that of the two Germanys before the war, before the fall of the Iron Curtain, one was called a democratic one. That democratic one was dictatorial. Those who insist on it, independent, democratic, are mostly not like HERA. HERA should be controlled by Hep-, should treat HEP quite differently, more independently. However, as HERA will treat HEP independently when HEP personnel come to HERA, leaving HERA, HEP gives them apartments. Actually, HEP controls HERA. HEP is an independent body of an interesting lobby and independent of the state and of the HERA. I mean, with us, we got it all confused and mixed up, and then we're the only one who doesn't have the title of the democratic Republic, but we have the Republic of Croatia, so at least we're honest with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35392	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35393	A colleague, Vuksic. You see this strategy which has drawn smart conclusions from the Croatian Government towards Coal as an energy source, it is the energy of the 19th century, is in the tourist area, so in the most developed tourist area of the Republic of Croatia it is because, in fact, certain businesses, laws and regulations have prevented the development of these sustainable, therefore those green, renewable and cost-effective sources of energy. So for example, when someone wants to plug some of their little power facility into the system, they have to pay a big, big fee. I'd call it that. It is therefore difficult for him to go into such an investment at all, and that is, undermining investments precisely in sustainable, renewable and cost-effective energy sources. This is what is done in Croatia today, and some lobbys that care about it wouldn't do the same to coal, so energy of the 19th century.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35394	Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35395	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, you spoke of solar collectors in Germany. I'll say yes here and you talked about hours of sunshine. Experts say Germany has about 30% less sundial hours to Croatia somewhere. And then we have this very interesting phenomenon, and with us, it's all interesting and upside down. We say there's no investment, no one's going to invest, and on the other hand we have a situation where people want to invest, but then we forbid them to practically invest. I know in my town, in the town of Križevci we have opened a competition for solar collectors on the roofs of public buildings and buildings. We got the bidders but they couldn't make the deal because the quota had already been filled for this year. We have one upside down, the upside down system means instead of using agencies through state bodies, the ministries to enable investment, maybe to enable renewable energy sources, we're actually forbidding it, and on the other hand we're saying something completely different. And now that I'm talking about the agency, then I'm going to say that the other day we were discussing another agency and that maybe it's time to actually discuss the agencies established by the Croatian State and the Croatian Government, so let's see if these agencies really make sense, for whose purpose they work, which is the essence of their existence and why we even need them as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35396	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35397	Well, I just got a colleague from Hrg in response to Mr Vuksic's replica and I said that, so they're making it impossible for the legislation not to involve other energy producers in the system. And why is that inclusion disabled even some kind of rate brought in? Well, isn't it good that the more we have the energy producer, the more the rate has been determined and almost filled in for this year? Like when you go to the Daruvar spas they crack the quota and there's no one receiving after 10, HZO not that they're no longer guilty, so this. But I'd say that's more of a reason why there's no 10% commission on anyone, so then there's no people coming in and making these systems or solar or windscreens, etc. You know once again I repeat that one who wants to join the electricity system of Croatia must pay fat and fat, so legally he must pay for joining his facility in the electricity system of Croatia. What's that for? A man builds an object and then punishes him to join it at all. So why is that? What are we doing? So we're making it impossible for them to fix the electrical energy to tell the blood count to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35398	Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35399	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Grubisic, you mentioned in your debate the express independence of HERA and its permission to increase the price of heating in this year, its license, and you said it was not only for those 6 cities but there are also those who have done so before. So here I quote a city that is very dear to me in Rijeka, it did so in early 2012, they already raised one 40% of the price of heating in the city of Rijeka so that in this beautiful city of the Mediterranean climate, when you compare one apartment 65, 70 square meters of the price you pay for heating during the year with the price of heating in Zagreb, it turns out that you pay there about 7.5 to 8 thousand for such an apartment, and in Zagreb it comes to you somewhere between 3.5 to 4 thousand. Now you can see how it works. And that's all because there's a nice company energo that can't create a chance of profit and profit. And then he always puts it on the back of the citizens, and he does it because these people, that's why. The people of Rijeka are leaving the city. Every year, they have fewer and fewer users simply move to the River ring because they can create better conditions for them to survive. And the beneficial influence of HERA's activities is felt by citizens also in my county where almost daily about 1100 users do not have electricity. It's somewhere between 1.5% of the total number because of the non-stop decommissioning, I can't pay these prices imposed on them by HEP, and HEP has made an effort to invest we've heard these days in the strongest investment in this year, which is building a new building in Cyprus that has 6 underground and 9 underground floors with very luxurious furniture to be purchased, and somewhere the price of investment will be over 100 million kuna. That's what we do, and here's the HERA that's independent of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35400	Thank you. The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35401	You mentioned a lot of things, but here's from Kupska so this new Energy Centre that has cars with heated seats, and then 1.5% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as much as I have data about us connections of electricity not only in your county but also in other counties, as well as in my Brod-Posavina. But what I regret is that the political opposition in Rijeka has been a little dim, and it has not been able to exploit and exploit this information that you have listed, and then among some people who would be supporters or supporters of the opposition are set on fire in apathy and so let them wear the waves of SDP. But you said that people from the very narrow center of Rijeka go to Rijeka, but some also come to the centre of Rijeka, and some leave, so little is known who is coming and who is leaving, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35402	Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35403	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In your presentation, you mentioned JANAF, the role of JANAF in the insurance of oil and oil derivatives in the territory of Croatia, and in this context you mentioned its role in the part relating to the work of the refinery of oil in the Bosnian Ship. Earlier in response to my replica, my colleague Gjurkovic said that JANAF is a stock company so that in this context, the Ministry of Finance should not be responsible for carrying out financial supervision of JANAF. And we forget that the state was through its agencies whether it was the Audio or whether it was the State Agency for Bank Rehabilitation, whether it was HZMO etc. The owner of about 80% more than 80% of JANAF should therefore be able to enable the Ministry of Finance to carry out financial supervision of JANAF’s operations without saying that the underlying reason why the Ministry of Finance wanted to check the financial operations of JANAF is. The fact that HANDA was the Croatian Oil and Oil Agency at the moment when this Parliament passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Oil and Oil Products of the HANDA was withdrawn into the state budget, but HANDA, meanwhile, forwarded the funds to JANAF in order to build a storage warehouse for oil supplies. And that was precisely why the Ministry of Finance wanted to check on the financial operations of JANAF, but the management of JANAF was very significantly disagreed with the Ministry of Finance's checking out this financial business. So here it seems to me that when we are talking about these things right now, and in the framework of the 2011 HERA work report, we can see that things on the Croatian energy market with this government are quite complicated, that they are leading to chaos and that absolutely not everything that should be controlled on the Croatian energy market by HERA, and in any case, when financial supervision is at stake by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35404	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35405	My colleague Bačić, somehow in the air smells and here we have a bit of a warm-up thesis that JANAF is one wunderkind of Croatian public companies. I think so far there's been a little bit of it known and a little bit of it to say and knew and a little bit of it talked about. You know that actually, if I didn't say, it would be precisely because of this untouchableness like the sacred cow JANAF in which the state has 80% is actually the owner and this same JANAF earns from the transport or transport of Russian oil, a refinery in the Bosnian Ship about 80 million per annum estimates per year. Now I was wondering in my speech whether 80 million kunas or the health of 80,000 inhabitants, including women, children, pregnant women, old people, or all the others. Either the Croatian State can, in this sense, intervene or spend money on 1720 new vehicles without somehow finding a solution for these 80 million kunas that can be different and find a different solution not to drive this raw, dirty, to say Russian, Siberian oil that produces all these by-products, by-products of refinement in the Bosnian Ship. And when you talk about tanks, well that's exactly what the container is, about these transactions, so we have a situation that even a few years ago two tanks were ordered from Djura Djakovic in Slavonski Brod, and for JANAF they did so by the Macedonians and there was everything there. That's when you were, that's when your government was, I'm not attacking you to get along. But history repeats itself, again we have orders for tanks at Djuri Djakovic. I don't want to talk about what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35406	And Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35407	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. One small pro-European replica since on July 1st and Croatia's entry into the European Union is so to speak at the door, I would just like to briefly replicate the part of Mr Grubisic's presentation when you said that speaking about the obligations of HERA or future commitments, you will have to quote this: "because this will come from above from the European Union". So I would like to say that nothing that will come from the European Union for Croatia, the 28th member of the European Union, will come from above, so the European Union will be nothing for us, we will be an equal member, we have taken over the acquis, and in the future as a 28th member or better said as one of the 28 members we will participate equally in the decision-making and decision-making of all policies that will be before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35408	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35409	Dear colleague Kosor, it is true that I have expressed these words, but you know that we have no European law that we have voted on here, which we have discussed, we have not refused, so we were not against. But as decisions are made in the European Union, starting with the European Commission, the European Council and the European Parliament in which Croatia will have only in this year and in 10 months 12 MPs, and from next year only 11 MPs will vote. That's how you signed it in Trinity, that's how it's signed. I fear your words that our language will be equal then in the European Union, 12 to 751 MPs, 12 to 751 it is clear and loud how many votes it is. Therefore, our role, i.e. the role of those elected to the European Parliament, will be that with their work, their talks, their lobbying, and beyond that institutional framework of debates in Parliament or committees to represent Croatian opinions, Croatian views so that Croatia would clearly not, as I may have said from above, but the European Parliament is as you yourself know, superior and national parliaments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35410	The word was requested by the board president, Mr. Jurekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35411	Dear ladies and gentlemen, although the debate is almost over, I actually just wanted to thank you for all your remarks. I have an impression and I think it's obvious that one of the main failures that has been made by both mine and those of the previous HERA, including failures and failure to explain clearly enough, is the role of HERA, which are its tasks, which are its competences, which are its powers and possibilities. So HERA is not a panacea of the European, these Croatian, pan-European energies of her colleagues from other countries, HERA is not the creator of energy policy. HERA primarily regulates those parts of the energy market that are regulated parts. For example, it does not regulate and cannot touch gasoline but can touch tariffs for distribution and transport. So it's all obviously our failure and it's all something that we're going to try to fix much more transparent and clearer to show what HERA is doing, can work and should work. And I'm saying I really hope we don't come to situations like this that I've been forced to file with this kind of backlog, but by the end of the half of this year, there will be a 2012 report that I hope you'll be more pleased with. There's only that much. Thank you very much. For all other things, the respected representative Grubisic will be very pleased if you or I personally address with any detailed question of the type of connection to the gas self, as my HERA at least this HERA is not HEP's HERA, nor will it be. I'm a gasman. So I'd be happy to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35412	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, she's a colleague of Mirela Holly's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35413	Thank you, Vice President. Well, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to say that I will not support this report, because I believe that HERA did not carry out its mission as an independent regulator in 2011, and that, as in previous years, it was under the strong influence of politics and energy lobbies primarily of HEP, and HEP has as well known and a very great influence on the official policy of the Ministry of Economy. I'm sorry that you as the new CEO of HERA have to defend the report and so I say the job that was doing HERA in 2011 and I somehow got the impression that you have a certain delay, too, so you stress that this is some kind of technical report. To recall, according to the then applicable Law on the regulation of the energy activities of HER, the issue of permits for carrying out energy activities, the issuing of a solution on the acquisition of the status of the privileged producer, the adoption of tariff systems without the level of tariff items, the adoption of a tariff system for the transport of oil pipeline, the decision on the amount of tariffs for the transport of oil pipeline, the adoption of a methodology for the provision of electricity balancing services in the electricity system, the adoption of a Regulation on charges for the connection to the network of the system and for the increase of connection power, the granting of opinions or consent to rules and regulations in the energy sector, monitoring of cross-border capacities and the management of congestion, the operation of the supervision of the application of tariff systems and all prescribed charges on the quality of the service of energy operators and other, the protection of consumers, the resolution of disputes relating to the provision of regulated energy activities, the supervision and the procedures and the procedures of procedures for the procedures and the procedures for the procedures for the procedures and procedures for the procedures and procedures for the procedures for the procedures and procedures for the procedures and procedures. The report is as we all had the opportunity to see, and finally those who read saw that the report was extensive but what I think is quite descriptive, and from it I get the impression that HERA behaves more as an observer and as an analyst or I could even say the chronicler of events, and less or less as a regulator, or as an active factor in the energy market, or in the regulation of the energy market. HERA cannot only calmly observe the sad state of Croatian energy. And today it was about how much electricity we import, as we do with other energy activities. And I think, however, through my supervisory role and through my role of notifying certain tasks that are located within the state government, there is quite a lot of room for action. And I really hope that here's the new structure of HERA doing the real role of regulators. The Agency's obligation is therefore to be proactive, to be critical of energy policy-management elites, to monitor the implementation of laws and energy directives, to protect public interest, to protect consumer rights, to enable an equal competition in the field of energy, not to protect monopolies or in the future of the duopolis, to have a positive impact on the quality of the service, on price policy, on the introduction of equal rules of the game for all. Unfortunately, today, Croatia is on the tail by the share of renewable energy sources both in total energy and in terms of electricity production, which means it is so far so that I can say HERA's set-up under the influence of powerful energy lobbys completely unprepared today for a new energy revolution in which the world has already stepped fat. I'm afraid it's going to be very difficult to achieve this delay and cassation for the developed world in front of a new set in HERA. There is a lot of work and challenges, especially given the new tasks and the basis for the implementation of the third European energy package. I wish you so much happiness and success in this business and action exclusively in the public and not in anyone's political or particular economic interest. You'll be on the right track, and we'll know that you're doing your job well when powerful energy lobbies start yelling at you, and politics starts to flinch in dissatisfaction. Good luck to you at your job!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35414	Thank you very much. Replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35415	Dear colleague Holly, you've made one finding that I've noticed, spoken of her, and that's HERA acting like a chronicler. Actually this report is, HERA is a statistic of the sums, it puts data on a bunch and we read that data. Be careful what it's all about with that provision that it's an independent regulatory agency. How can there be independence without attitude? What independence it is when the agency that should be independent has no attitude, because data collection is not an attitude. That's pure statistics. Let's say HERA has no attitude, that's exactly what you said. It will be good when they start attacking her, when she starts to pollemise, when she does not comply with the elites that decide on the energy fate of the Republic of Croatia. Let's say for sure that I would like to hear the information that is accurate whether it will cost 130m euros or cost as some experts say 160. HEP said 130, experts of 160m euros. Then coal in Plomin. It's all about coal in Plomin. The people of Istria are rebelling against that coal, it is harmful to health, but our prime minister said that in fact coal in Plomin will be a coal power plant because the tradition of coal is in Istria. It is another one of these pearly statements by Mr Milanovic. Looks like someone in the world has extra coal, and we have people who love you with extras, where it can't be sold, and then we're Earth-like to buy coal with us and I guess somebody puts about 10% in their pocket. There's no other explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35416	Replication response, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35417	The esteemed colleague today has a lot of discussion about this report and things that have nothing to do with what HERA needs to do in principle. For these questions that you were just talking about when you talk about the Plomin thermal power plant and OMBLA hydropower plants is primarily a responsible strategy for the energy policy of the Republic of Croatia, which in principle is not written by HERA, but is created at the level of the government and we have the energy strategy that we have. My views on HE OMBLA are well known, and I think it's a very harmful project not only in ecological terms but also in economic terms. ABOUT TE Plomin is the fact that certain parameters related to environmental protection will improve with the realization of this project if this project is ever realised, but the fact is that we have a very big problem with energy policy because Croatia alone does not meet the needs of its own energy, and there we need to make a very big effort to fix it. I am sorry that the gas thermoelectrics are not planned because I think it would be quite easy to implement them, but it is the obligation of the state to implement these procedures in a way that is consistent with all laws in the field of environmental protection and nature protection at the end of the day, and on HERA it is the task of ensuring market regulation in a way that equal rules apply equally to everyone, not to continue to be a monopoly of HEP.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35418	And Branko Hrg, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35419	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Holly, I must agree with you when you said that HERA cannot only calmly observe the state of Croatian energy because I know that you speak with a clean heart and that you speak with truly honest intentions. But when you presented those views in your debate, I somehow got an association that is a general state currently in the government of the Republic of Croatia, and you mentioned that in fact HERA couldn't do something or couldn't do something because of the government, so it seems to me that it's one general state that everyone just observes what's going on and only the statistics of what's failed. But what interests me in your debate, you said that the new structure would take a lot of work and that it would face great challenges. So I'm asking a question, since I'm not really referring to it, how long has this new structure been working in HERA, or maybe some new one on the pier?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35420	Replication response, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35421	My dear colleague, unlike the other MPs who discussed this subject, I did not speak about the current situation, but I spoke about the 2011 report. And the fact is, in 2011, HERA did not determine the role of regulators. Before HERA, the implementation of the third European energy package is a very large task, and they will have an even bigger framework of jobs than they had in 2011, and we still need to pass some laws in this Parliament that will implement the third European energy package. So that's one process. I hope that HERA will manage well with the regulation of the electricity market and in general the activities of energy activities, and let us allow time to show its own. Here it is, how many times have I had the opportunity to communicate and see Mr. Jurekovic's performance seems to me that things are still going to change in relation to the previous situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35422	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. It's my friend Branko Bacic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35423	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Jurekovic, dear colleagues and colleagues. The 2011 report on the work and business of HERA, which the Government referred to in the parliamentary procedure, shows the period in which HERA had significantly less power than it has today compared to today's legal frameworks. And in that sense, for us at the HDZ Club, this 2011 report is acceptable. In 2012 however, almost the entire legislative framework that defines HERA's position on the Croatian and European markets has changed. All the important laws on which HERA's work rests have either been amended or new laws have been passed, making HERA's position really stronger. HERA has gained even more independence and its role in the Croatian energy market is significantly stronger, stronger than the year for which this report is submitted. Since HERA was given such a position, it was realistic to expect HERA to be stronger last year at important times when they either changed laws or made some kind of decision to the public that its independence on the Croatian energy market would be more powerful and that HERA decided to really behave in accordance with the legislative framework that was given to it by amending a number of laws in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian public, and above all consumers, expected that HERA would react in April of the month when the government, based on Croatia's electricity demand, increased the price of electricity in the Republic of Croatia by 20% even though it did not have HERE's consent at the time as provided by the law. However, when the professional public rebelled against such a government decision, the government said that this was partly based on the 2010 HEP requirement, although the request was then planned and requested an increase of only 13%, and the government then increased the electricity price by 20% on 2nd year. We can ask the question, how could Croatian citizens who have to submit to any administrative body in the Republic of Croatia a request and be accompanied by a document that is older than 6 months to be rejected to each ordinary Croatian citizen, while at the same time the government's increase in electricity prices is based on a document that was consumed 2 years ago. Secondly, it seems to me that HERA needed her, and by then you seemed to me already to be Mr. Jurekovic at the head of HERA, she should have reacted the moment we changed the Energy Act and we changed the Energy Market Regulation and when you were practically given powers, when HERA was given powers to decide independently for example about the price of thermal energy. That, after this law was passed, the Council passed the law where it had given you these powers, it accepted up to a tenth of the price of increasing heat that the first Deputy Prime Minister and Prime Minister then announced 2 months ago. So much, so much for the independence of HERA, which seems to me that it still needed these demands to increase the heat a little more studioly to tell him and probably to say what he means about it, and not almost obediently accept all that is government for months before you get that decision legally, that you decide on the price of heating simply and accept it. The third time HERA was also supposed to react was when in this House we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Oil and Oil Products. When we say so by the Ministry of Finance, not by the Ministry of Economy in this Chamber, to learn about the fact that the original income of HANDA, that HANDA will no longer have its original income, but that its original income practically becomes the income of the state budget because it is now contained in excise duties. In this way, HANDA, which under the law is responsible for caring for state supplies of oil and petroleum products and when it is responsible for building and building certain storage facilities for oil and petroleum products. In practice, it remains without its originals and depends on the government's well-being or better to say to the finance ministry which will annually after establishing revenues from excise duties, and among other things, the part which referred earlier to the needs of HANDA financing. Now the Ministry of Finance will, when it is satisfied and in what amount it decides to forward the funds to the HANDA. It seems to me that you, as a roof institution that cares about the energy market in the Republic of Croatia, should have reacted at that time, not to say that you should have reacted four times when we changed the Biofuels Act and when the Croatian energy market operator PROTEN, too, had lost its original income because the Ministry of Finance, what was their original income, and this was the fuel charge paid by Croatian fuel distributors, fossil fuels in HR. When PROTEN was left unaccounted for, so the Croatian Energy Market Operator and when that income became the original one again by means of the state budget and once again, the Ministry of Finance will decide on the same operator that should be independent of the money forwarding. Not to say that at the time we sent a message to all manufacturers was fuel in the Republic of Croatia, a clear message that in 2013, in which we are now not going to know how much we will encourage the production of biofuels, in which amount, and by the way, the Government said and reduced those subsidies to producers was fuel. And you know well that in the process of joining full EU membership, among other things, the Republic of Croatia has assumed that 10% of the transport fuel will be produced from biofuels. In this way, we send a clear message to biofuel manufacturers that we will not subsidise biofuel production to the sufficient extent, that we will not fulfil that obligation that we have to meet our accession negotiations and that we will therefore be forced to import fuel produced, biofuel, diesel and bioethanol, and that we will finance a foreign plant where in Europe we have been fueled. I therefore hold that you would show that you are indeed sovereign in the Croatian energy market, that you are indeed independent above all about the Government and the ruling structures. HERA at important times when legislative legislation is changed that violates the independence of other agencies such as HANDA and HROTEN, it is then a duty for you and all of us to react that this independence of the agencies established in the Republic of Croatia is indeed happening in the energy market in the Republic of Croatia. So, to conclude, we will see in the 2012 report that you announced in 3 months, how much HERA has truly fulfilled everything that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Energy Market Regulatory and Energy Activities in the Republic of Croatia has made possible and have you fulfilled that role in this regard. Because it seems to me that in 2012 it is largely, although the legislative framework has enabled HERA to truly be an independent agency, that in these examples that I pointed out to HERA did not show this anymore than we are in the work concerning energy production, in the work relating to the entire energy system in the Republic of Croatia due from the negotiations that we have concluded for Croatia to join full-fledged membership in the EU, we have taken on many of the commitments that we have to complete and there is your role, the role of HERA very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35424	Thank you very much. Frano Matušić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35425	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you have rightly questioned. I am the new work of HERA because it did not really act in the key moments as it already mentioned the moment of electricity collection, the collection of energy in the Republic of Croatia when the government and its decision were actually based on the fact that the procedure started in 2010 was used to cover their decision instead of requesting the opinion of HERA which should have been well analysed and to say whether this collection was justified, as far as it is justified, how many Croatian citizens can bear this collection. So all that was in their jurisdiction, they didn't actually at that point. I will mention that at this point, the Government did not consult the Economic Social Council, not only HERA, nor the Economic Social Council, which should be one of those who also gives his opinion and his position in such important decisions as the collection of energy for Croatian citizens. I have already mentioned that HEP has collected an additional 800 million kuna on the basis of that decision. These 800 million kunas could be spent on other things, specifically Croatian products, so they could strengthen the Croatian economy with the 800 million kuna. In this way they covered up the poor work of HEP and it is clear that HEP has a major impact on HERA unfortunately. I hope that this will change in the future and that the HERA will indeed, as an independent agency, give independent opinions, opinions that will be based exclusively on depth analyses. Second thing, you mentioned a fact about bio diesel. I will point out another detail which is negative in the functioning of this government, which I have also not heard of HERA coming out, which is reducing the electricity subsidies generated from alternative energy sources, so the subsidies are so halved. In particular, half the subsidies for those who will build parks that are used in the sun's energy are used, so the price is halved for them. I didn't hear her answer. It's dimming.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35426	Thank you very much. The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35427	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Matušić, that's right. Last year, practically twice the price of electricity was increased. First time with a VAT increase from 23% to 25%. Although the income is not HEP's income, it was the revenues of the state budget. The second time in April when electricity prices rose by 20%, which is practically the starting point of all HEP incomes, HEP revenue cuts. And with these revenues, HEP finished business in 2012 with a million kuna more than he did in 2011 when and in this report, HERA said it was an unfavourable year for HEP in view of the drought in the Republic of Croatia. According to the fact that HEP was operating in 2012, revenues were increased by one-fifth and profits only by one million kuna. And when you mentioned it, it was fuel. So when the government proposed the law on changes and additions to the biofuel law here in the Croatian Parliament, parallel to the debate in the Assembly, it made a decision that reduced the cost of production of biofuels from 5 limes to 3 limes, so by 40% it reduced the compensation for the production of biofuels in the Republic of Croatia. And that obligation was paid by fossil fuel distributors at the same time what was even worse reduced by subsidies to producers was fuel almost three to four times. And what kind of message is it to companies that are going to build these facilities when at the very beginning one subsidy has been reduced by three to four times. So I think that's what I said, and I think that's where HERA was supposed to react because the biofuel law is one of the laws that make up the legislative framework in the work of HERA. At least that's what it says in this report that we've been delivered here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35428	Thank you. Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35429	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bacic, you said in your debate that Croatian citizens expected HERA to react to an increase in electricity prices of 20% made by the government of the Republic of Croatia in this term. I then interpreted the non-responsiveness as their independence. You, if you're independent, can and can not react. Simply let go and then come the results of HEP and they are for last year the next 800 million kuna more income based on charging these 20% more expensive electricity. $500 million of bonds issued under the notion or under an explanation of the restructuring of a company that has not even begun to be restructured until today. Get a million kunas higher than in 2011, means 72 million kuna. And then I say we tell the story of independence and these poor citizens come true, and this country, under the measures of this government, we turn into a state, unfortunately, we have to say five packagings and containers, and more and more citizens are really getting independent of electricity because the distributor simply unplugged them. It is unfortunately a sad fact, with all the stories I tell that we are independent and that HEP is doing its job properly, unfortunately it does not work and the greatest damage is suffered by Croatian citizens and consumers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35430	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35431	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You're absolutely right. The fact that HERA was silent in April last year is not that silence was not an expression of their independence but simply did not little power to oppose the government to make an illegal decision for us. Clearly, Mr. Jurekovic was not at the head of HERA at the time, so this remark was not addressed to him. We're just talking about Hera's business last year when this government took responsibility for Croatia's leadership. Otherwise for your information, you should also say when we talk about HEP, that HEP last year seems to be additionally in charge of about a billion kunas and that HEP was supposed to be the driver of that investment tsunami in the Republic of Croatia that it should have started at several locations of HEP with large investments. We've heard about Plomin, we've heard about Ombla, we've heard about Senj, we've heard about Kosinj, etc., etc. Unfortunately, because of the reasons presented by HEP director, to date, the tsunami at least in the energy sector has not occurred and almost none of the important projects that should contribute to Croatia's energy independence have almost even begun, and we are already here 15 months after the government took responsibility for Croatia's leadership.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35432	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report later. Now we'll have a break by 12:00. I'd like to meet you at 12:00 for a vote on the debated points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-22-0.u35433	Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2011 and the implementation of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2011. The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Economic Committee as a home working body, I am voting on the next conclusion, the 2011 Energy Regulatory Agency Report is hereby adopted. I'd like to make our point on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 109 votes, 5 votes against and 3 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion. My colleagues and colleagues close the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament. We'll schedule the next session on a written basis. I want you all to work for local elections in addition to participating in the European elections, on materials that remain on the agenda and that will come in more mail, not only to surrender to local and European elections. I wish to congratulate everyone on the holiday, or wish for a happy Easter, to have a good time in the circle of the family, those who celebrate and who do not celebrate. I'll see you on call, I hope there's a two-week break. Thank you very much.
