ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26792	Dear fellow MPs, distinguished colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, I am opening the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, respected Zoran Milanovic, vice-president and vice-president of the government, present members of the government and ministers in the government. This session begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament in this year, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, begins on 15 January and ends on 15 July. I invite you to pay our respects at the beginning of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament by performing anthem "Beautiful Our Homeland" - At the beginning of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, I invite you to pay tribute to the fallen Croatian defenders and all the civilian victims of the war and all the fallen ones for Croatia. - A moment of silence - - May they have eternal glory and thank you! – Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the minutes of the 6th session of the Croatian Parliament have been received at the session, so please note the minutes of the 6th session of the Croatian Parliament? I find there are no objections. I would like to point out that we have adopted the minutes of the 6th session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. We are moving to determine the agenda of this session of the Croatian Parliament. With the invitation to the session, you received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. The final draft agenda included 4 new points and so on: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on volunteering with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 252; 2. Proposal for a Taxation Act with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 250; 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Road Law with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading of the PZE. No. 253; 4. Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land, first reading of PZE No. Article 251; Article 205 The Rules of Procedure are set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws by emergency procedure. For the adoption of an emergency procedure, the laws under the agenda points from points 1 to 7, point 10 of point 12 to point 14, under point 17 and point 22 are proposed. These are: 1. Final proposal of the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 235; 2. Final proposal of the Alternative Investment Funds Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 234; 3. Proposal for a Special Tax Act on Motor Vehicles, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of PZE No. 245; 4. Proposed excise duty law, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 250; 5. Proposal for a Law amending the House Savings Act and the State Encouragement of Housing Savings, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of the PZ No. 248; 6. Proposal for a law amending the Act on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of PZ No. 246; 7. Proposal for a Law on the confirmation of a contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Azerbaijan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax, with the Final Bill Proposal, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 236; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteering with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 252, 9. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Roads, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 253; 10. Proposal for a Law on the Market in Electricity, with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 237; 11. Proposal for a Mining Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of the PZE No. 249; 12. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Memorandums of Consensus relating to Co-operation in Combating Corruption through the South East European Anti-Corruption Initiative, with Final Bill Proposal, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, CZ No.240; 13. Proposal for a law confirming the contract between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on the Euro-Atlantic Partnership, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading of the PZ No. 247. Do any of the MPs and advocates have any objections to the proposal to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? There isn't. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure. Do we have a quorum? Thank you very much. We have a sufficient number of approach representatives and MPs so that we can make a sound decision on all points of the agenda and on the agenda. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law amending the House Savings Act and the State Encouragement of Housing Savings, PZ No. 248. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that, most of the votes on the agenda by emergency procedure, we have laid down the Final Proposal for a Law amending the House Savings Act and the State Encouragement of Housing Savings PZ 248. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, PZ No. 246. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks. 3. who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Azerbaijan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 236. Please state who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you very much. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously with 128 votes on the agenda, the final draft law on the confirmation of contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Azerbaijan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax is included. 4 who, for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteering, PZ No. 258. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I find that the majority of votes with 84 votes in favour and 44 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure is included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteering. 5, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of a law supplementing the Roads Act, PZ No. 253. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that the majority of votes, 90 votes for and 36 against the agenda under the urgent procedure is included the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Roads Act. 6, who is in favour of applying the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Consensus relating to cooperation in countering corruption through the South East European Anti-Corruption Initiative, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 240. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the majority of votes, 125 votes in favour and 3 against, on the agenda of the emergency procedure, are included the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Consensus on Co-operation in countering corruption through the South East European Anti-Corruption Initiative. 7, who is in favour of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on the Euro-Atlantic Partnership, PZ No. 247. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I find it unanimous, with 128 votes for, on the agenda of an emergency procedure, the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on the Euro-Atlantic Partnership has been included. That's what we've exhausted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We do not vote in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the application of the emergency procedure. There were no objections to the draft agenda, which I sent with the call for a session, and this agenda was in accordance with Article 203. The rules of procedure of paragraph 4 shall be deemed adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament can now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda with a call for today's session of the Croatian Parliament. Any of the MPs have objected to the inclusion in the agenda of the proposal for a law on agricultural land, first reading, PZ No. 251? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is where the agenda is established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda, in other words read all the points of the agenda. I suggest, if, of course, you agree, that we do not read it in full, but let me announce that the agenda is as set out in the final draft agenda. No objections? Thank you very much. Please, colleagues and colleagues, do we have a quorum? I estimate we do. But to hear random counters. Thank you very much. We have 120 MPs and representatives present at the Croatian Parliament, in the assembly here. We can decide on all matters on the agenda and on the basis of Article 204. Article 2 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1.The report of the mandate-immunity commission, 2. Final proposal of the law on the Croatian qualification framework, second reading, P.Z. No. 183, 3. Proposal for a Chemical Law, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 260, 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, with the Final Proposal for Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. Proposed law supplementing the Implementing Act (EC) No 259, 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1907/2006, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. Proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EC) No 258/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 January 1997 on novel food and novel food ingredients, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. Proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EC) No This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1830/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2003 on the traceability and labelling of genetically modified organisms and the traceability of food and feed produced from genetically modified organisms amending and supplementing Directive 2001/18/EC, with the final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. Proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EC) No 1223/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 November 2009 on cosmetic products (recast version), with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 261 9. Proposed Law confirming the 2002 Protocol at the Athens Convention on the Transport of Passengers and their luggage of the Sea of 1974, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 264, 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the multiannual operational Programme "Protection of the Environment" for Community assistance under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance under the "Regional Development" component in Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 262, 11. Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the multiannual operational Programme "Transport" for Community Assistance under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance under the "Regional Development" component in Croatia, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 263, 12. Proposal for a law confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the European Partnership, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 265. You've received the motions of the acts into the boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following My rules of procedure are to first decide on a proposal for individual laws to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Do any of the MPs have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in law-making? No, I'm not. I'm not. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure. The quorum's been determined. Can we go? We can. First, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law on the certification of the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Agreement on financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the multiannual operational Programme "Protectation of the Environment" for Community assistance under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance under the "Regional Development" component in Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 262, please plead. Who's in? Does anyone mind? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously with 119 votes, we've brought the PZ No. 262 if I can read it like that so I don't read it and break it all. Number 2, who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law on the certification of the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the multiannual operational Transport Programme for Community assistance under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance under the "Regional Development" component in Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 263. Please state who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously, with 120 votes for an emergency procedure, we have included the law of the PZ No. 263. 3. who is in favour of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the European Partnership, CZ No. 265. Please state who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you very much. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously with 119 votes for the agenda, we have put the PZ No into the emergency procedure. 265. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the We do not vote in the Rules of Procedure on the application of the emergency procedure in the other proposed laws because they bear the code of the PZE, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed agenda points? No, I'm not. I'm not. I'm in the process and I'm determining that the agenda is complemented by that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26795	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26796	Thank you very much and congratulations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26797	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26798	Dear fellow MPs and esteemed fellow MPs, let's go to work. We would first supplement the agenda of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament with the following points. 1. Proposal for a decision to give a credible interpretation of Article 44 Law amending and supplementing the forest law, NN No. 41/1990. 1. Proposal for a decision to give a credible interpretation of Article 98(6) Road law, NN No. 81/2011. Please do any of the MPs have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the proposed points? There isn't. Thank you very much. I find that the agenda has been completed. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, we would now move on from Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Proposal for a law on materials and articles that come in direct contact with food, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 273, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 648/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 on detergents, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 268, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 689/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the export and import of dangerous chemicals, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 267, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on genetically modified organisms, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 277, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and activities in spatial planning and construction, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 271, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction Products, with the Final Bill, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 278, 7. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 216, 8. Final proposal of the Court Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 217, 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the execution of prison sentences, first reading, P.Z. No. 279, 10. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council, second reading, P.Z. No. 211, 11. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, second reading, P.Z. No. 232, 12. Final proposal of the Law on the right to access information, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 198, 13. Proposal for a minimum wage law, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 269, 14. Proposal for a law amending the Act on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with the Final Bill, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. Imprisoned, 12 / 15 Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, first reading, P.Z. No. 270, 16. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on areas of special state care - Proposer of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, first reading, P.Z. No. 274, 17. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on County, City and Municipalitys in the Republic of Croatia - Proposer of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, first reading, P.Z. No. 275, 18. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia - MP Dragica Zgrebec, first reading, P.Z. No. 276, 19. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science, 20. Report on the situation in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008 to 2012, 21. Proposal for a migration policy of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2013-2015, 22. Proposal for a strategy for the development of tourism by the Republic of Croatia by 2020. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in The Rules of Procedure determines firstly the decision on a proposal to adopt an individual law by an urgent procedure. Any of the MPs have any objections to an emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? There is. Dear Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26800	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I don't, so this time I'm reporting with an objection. This is the third time that the agenda is complemented without the proposed laws that we have sent to a club of MPs in the parliamentary procedure being in addition. So tell us what's the reason why you don't put a proposal to supplement the State's Attorney's Department Act and supplement the Security Intelligence Act on the agenda. I don't see any more reason. We've arranged for procedure, it's received. For the third Friday, you've been supplementing the agenda, not including our agenda points. I'm asking you to check it out. We're told everything's fine. All according to the Rules of Procedure, so please here are two laws on the completion of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Security Intelligence Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26801	Thank you very much. I'll check it out. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will do the same. Thank you very much. So there are no objections to the proposed agenda. We move to the vote, but before voting, I ask that we establish the presence of MPs in Parliament. Thank you very much. There are 123 MPs and MPs in the assembly. We can decide all the questions. Let's go first to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Minimum Salary Act, P.Z. No. 269. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. What's the score? I find that most of the votes 87 for and 36 against the agenda by emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for a minimum wage law, P.Z. No. 269. Two, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Act on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, P.Z. No. 272. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? What's the score? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes 93 votes to, 2 against, on the agenda, the final draft law amending the Act on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has been adopted, P.Z. No. 272. Other proposed laws for the adoption of an emergency procedure shall bear the P.Z.E. markings. and in accordance with Article 161 thereof. We do not vote in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the application of the emergency procedure. Any of the MPs object to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed agenda points? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the agenda have been completed. Let's first find out if we have a quorum in the hall. Thank you very much. We've got enough representatives at the council and we're moving on to the agenda. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda with the following points: 1. Proposal for a law on the gas market, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 284, 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act, with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 280, 3. Final proposal of the Nanny Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 214, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on election of representatives from the Republic of Croatia to the European Parliament, with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 283, 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Investments and Promotion of the Investment Environment, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading of P.Z. No. 282, 6. Proposal for a law amending the Law on civil servants, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 281, 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on State Attorneyship - Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HDSSB, first reading, P.Z. No. “ I’m the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is The One Who Is The One Who Is The One Who Is The One Who Is It? ” Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia - Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HDSSB, first reading, P.Z. No. 254, Ninth Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Proposer Mario Habek, second reading, P.Z. No. 242. The 10th Proposed Lifelonging Act, i.e. the Retirement of Retirement. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of HSU first reading, P.Z. No. 266. Proposal for a decision to appoint a president and a deputy president and members of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. That's it, yeah. You've received the motions of the acts into the boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? There isn't. We're going to vote on an emergency procedure. The quorum's been determined. Let's get this straight. First, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Investments and Promotion of the Investment Environment, P.Z. No. 282. I'd like to make a statement about the emergency procedure. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the 110 votes in favour of and 5 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure is included the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Investments and Advancement of the Investment Environment, P.Z. No. 82. Second, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on State officials, P.Z. No. 281. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes for and 34 votes against on the agenda under the urgent procedure are included the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Civil Servants, P.Z. No. 281. The other proposed laws for the adoption of an emergency procedure shall bear the P.Z.E. mark, in accordance with Article 161 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. We do not vote in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the application of the emergency procedure. Any of the MPs object to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed agenda points? No, I don't. Gentlemen and Madam Representatives, the agenda has been completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26804	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26805	Thank you very much. . Congratulations on your oath, congratulations on your choice. [[Applause.]] For all of us and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I want you to perform an honorable duty with responsibility, honestly, knowingly in accordance with the oath given. Thank you very much. Dear fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament, respected fellow MPs first to determine the number of states, so quorum in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. We can decide the points on the agenda. Let us first complete the agenda of the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda with the following points: 1. A proposal to show confidence in Darko Lorencin for his duties as Minister of Tourism, 1 / 1 Proposal for a law on nature protection, first reading, P.Z.E. No. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 1 / 1 Proposal for a law supplementing the law on gambling, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 1 / 1 Final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, second reading, P.Z. No. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 2 / 1 Final draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, second reading, P.Z.E. No. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 226 / 1 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 1 / 1 Proposal for a law amending the Law on civil servants, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 2 / 1 Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Payments of Authorised State Auditors, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 2 / 1 Decision on the withdrawal of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia from the United Nations Peace Mission at the UNDOF – Confirmation, 1. Proposal for a law on general application items, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 1 / 1 Proposal for a law on food additives, aromas and food enzymes, with a final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 1 / 1 Proposal for a law on the import of food and food for animals from third countries, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 2 / 1 Proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, the Final Proposal for Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 289 / 1 Proposal for a law on food and health claims and on nutritious nutrients, with a final bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 1 / 1 Proposal for a food law for specific nutritional needs, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 2 / 15 Proposal for a law on contaminants, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 302 and 1. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the work of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 300. You've received proposals from these acts in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure, which determines firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt individual laws by an urgent procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? Please, dear representative Ivan Shuker, come in. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26807	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Croatian Democratic Community Club opposes the adoption of the law, the proposal for a law supplementing the law on gambling with the final proposal for an urgent procedure for the simple reason why the government's argument why the law goes this way by an emergency procedure is simply not good and points to a totally wrong practice. Namely, ten-year concessions for 26 companies stand out, and now we are changing the law because the government has not passed a new Law on Games on Happiness to extend concessions to these societies. So that's one irresponsibleness and ultimately, if we're talking this is one bad message to all foreign investors, all foreign investors a bad message. The worst message that can be when one who invests money in the Republic of Croatia has no legal certainty. So whoever controls the application of the law should know about, in the next month, a ten-year concession comes out to certain companies that have received it. So he either had to call a tender under the existing law or he had to pass a new law that would adopt this House of Highs and call the competition on the basis of this new law. So this is just one clamper and one sloppy thing that sends a bad message. This is a bad message from the state administration to all potential investors in the Republic of Croatia, and that is why we as a club of the Croatian Democratic Communities oppose these more than the provisions of the law practically the whole process should be implemented within a week, and one who does not meet the conditions for you to have a concession is based on the existing law so that this concession can be taken away. However, I repeat this is a bad message to anyone who wants to invest in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26808	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26809	Dear Mr. President, the Croatian Democratic Community Club opposes an emergency procedure in the agenda of items 6, 7 and 8. Point 6. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of Ministrys and other central authorities of the state administration makes sense that one service is singled out from one ministry and a new Office for Housing Care is formed. And point 7, the bill amending the Law on Civil Service Officers, not to mention that we had this law in amendments two weeks ago on the agenda. And the proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Payments of Authorised State Auditors with a final draft of the Law are laws which, in a small part, change the coefficients for the account of wages and for a very narrow circle, i.e. a small number of people. In view of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, we argue that there are no reasons for the urgency of the proceedings and that we will renegotiate the Rules of Procedure if these laws are to be placed on the agenda of an emergency procedure, that is to say, we are asking the applicant what are the interests of the defence, the other particularly justified state reasons, i.e. preventing or removing major disturbances in the economy, in order to be the reason for these three laws to be passed by emergency procedure? We are once again warning of bad practice or already the rule of how the Croatian government behaves by proposing laws by emergency procedure, but we are looking for an explanation in view of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which are the reasons for these three laws to be passed by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26810	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26811	The Honorable Mr. President of the HDSSB Club opposes the passing of laws by emergency procedure and even these laws that are marked. Therefore, all these laws that go according to an emergency procedure even the laws which are marked as European laws, other than this point of the proposed point of the law, or the proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the work of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. And here I have before me a report by the Constitutional Court on the procedures for the adoption of the law and on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, among other things, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia warns that, in recent parliamentary practice, the procedure for the adoption of the laws under emergency procedure has become almost a rule, not an exception, and that this phenomenon is worrying. I believe that for many of these laws, even Europeans we have enough time until 1 July 2013 so that they can discuss in a better quality and quality way both in two readings and thus give this Croatian Parliament a far greater contribution to Croatia's entry into the EU. And I repeat the fact that it can happen to us as it did a few days ago when this House voted for amendments and amendments to the Value Added Tax Act by an urgent procedure and then the Government asked by its amendment, or by asking that the law to conflict the two ministers of the ruling coalition go into two readings anyway. So, I appeal to you, too, as President of the Parliament, not to put and not to bring us into an unpleasant and awkward position, especially the representatives of the ruling coalition, who raise their hands as the boss tells them, and then they have to put down again as the boss says.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26812	Thank you very much. Yes, I also advocate that, in the future, the de-legation of the Ferend government sends less and less valid reasons into the parliamentary procedure the draft laws under emergency procedure. Of course I'm up for it, but let's be realistic about it, so let's respect my priorities and interest in saying that to the government. I hope that any argument in the future will be appropriate to the Rules of Procedure and to the Constitution. And now we're going to move on to a decision on the urgency of the procedure of every single law that we've stated here. Please, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Complementary of the Law on Games on Happiness? Please let us plead with your hand. Who's in? Let's just finish the vote, please. [[Invader Blažević: Injury of the Rules of Procedure.]] Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes on the agenda have been included in the emergency procedure the Final Proposal for the Law on the Completion of the Law on Games, P.Z. No. 313. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26813	Dear Mr. President, I apologize for reporting again for the word, but in my first address, I prayed that the motionary or the person on behalf of the motionary explain the business reasons for the urgency of passing these three laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26814	What is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26815	I said getting into the agenda of these laws... Without these arguments, the breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] [[Intruder Leko: Get involved.]] I'm saying he's hurt. I will refer to article 159 sometimes or 162 if you want this text that we have not published where I have quoted which are the only possible reasons when laws are passed in the Croatian Parliament by emergency procedure other than those that are brought in to comply with EU law. [[Intruder Leko: What is the provision say that we can check.]] I'm asking to explain the urgency of the procedure of these three laws I've read.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26816	Thank you very much. We heard the same request twice. According to my assessment, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure or standards as we have decided on the urgency of the procedure in the Croatian Parliament according to the same Rules of Procedure. Therefore, let us move to vote and decide on the urgency of the procedure as we have done so far. Thank you very much. Please state who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction, the section of the Ministry and other central authorities of the State Administration, P.Z. No, 317. Please let us plead with your hand. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 78 votes in favour and 30 votes against on the agenda by emergency procedure, have included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment and Fraction of the Ministry and other central bodies of the State Administration, P.Z. No. 317. Third, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on State officials, P.Z. No, 318. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that for most of the votes, 79 for and 29 against the emergency procedure, we have included the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on civil servants, P.Z. No. 318. Fourthly, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending the law on the salaries of authorised civil servants, I apologize, P.Z. No, 321. Please let us plead with your hand. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that, most of the votes, 79 votes for and 30 against the agenda, we have included the final proposal of the Law amending the law on the salaries of authorised state auditors, P.Z. No. 321. Other proposed laws for the adoption of an emergency procedure bearing the P.Z.E. marking. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We do not vote in the Rules of Procedure on the application of the emergency procedure. Any of the MPs object to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed agenda points? No, I'm not. I'm not. Ladies and gentlemen, we've completed our agenda. That's what we ended up voting on the points of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26818	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to pray for the conclusion of the last Croatian Assembly if it is possible to obtain the purified agenda on Monday through noon. I, since it has not been respected past time and this way please if it can be done because of the more efficient work both of the club and of the board, because it is simply impossible to organise a discussion at the club and by committees. Let's just say this week we've been discussing boards on agenda points that aren't even on the agenda yet. So in this papacy it's very difficult to manage and it's very difficult to prepare quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26819	If you hadn't said this the last time, I was even going to say it was a constructive proposal, but this last one has discredited you a little bit, but still okay. The opposition is allowed to have more free texts. So, knock on the open door. The text of the purified agenda will be placed on the web today. The website of the Croatian Parliament. So, Your Honor, we made the effort you asked for before you intervened here. We will now announce that we will continue Tuesday's session at 9.30 p.m., at the point of the proposal to show our trust in Darko Lorencin for the duties of Minister of Tourism. I ask the clubs of the representatives and the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament to organise and hold meetings on Monday in as large a number as possible so that we can be effective in the work because we will end the session hopefully next Friday. Thank you very much. I expect co-operation on Monday and completion of work. Dear MPs and respected MPs, we will now move on to the current morning. We begin by asking questions to the Government, or to an individual member of the Government, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Articles 180 to 184. The current morning shall be held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. We move on to asking questions according to a set order. First question and honourable representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26825	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Prime Minister, members and members of the government. My question is addressed to the Prime Minister although I could, of course, refer him to the Minister of Culture, but because of the exceptional political relevance of what I'm about to ask, I've decided to refer the question to you, Mr. President. On January 7th this year, it was marked in our country not in a very special way the anniversary of 70 years since the death of the greats of Croatian and world science and invention of Nikola Tesla, one of the largest names in invention in world contexts. Until '92. In the year Nikola Tesla had two monuments in the Republic of Croatia, one within the Ruđer Boskovic Institute in Zagreb, and one in the main town square which he named after him in Gospić, Nikola Tesla. That monument in Gospić was in '92. years of mined, such as mined and numerous other monuments of great Croatian artists in different areas but they are not the subject now. So the theme is a monument that was in '92. Minimal, removed, and the name of the square changed, and to this day nothing has been done, nor has anyone been sanctioned for this act, nor has anyone expressed regret over the fact that in the de facto hometown of Nikola Tesla no longer mentions the traits. Eight years ago, seven years ago as part of the 150th anniversary of the birth of Nikola Tesla, the government of the Republic of Croatia is...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26826	Question, Your Honor, Question, it's time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26827	She restored the memorial house to launch an initiative to remove Krsevic's monument. It has been done since then, since seven years ago, and until today this monument is located in the left-hand art academy in Zagreb. In Gospić, they obviously don't need him because for some reason he bothered them. Mr. Prime Minister, that monument of Nikola Tesla deserved to be found for him if not in Gospić, then somewhere else so that people who respect him around the world could know where he was born, they could know where he was going and they could see that we respected him in Croatia. Mr. Prime Minister, we ask you to tell us what your government is doing, which you personally think is that this fact that clearly has not bothered anyone so far has changed and done the subject of your interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26828	I'm sorry, Prime Minister, I'm begging you colleagues and fellow MPs I have time but it's not up to me. It's about our Rules of Procedure, that we have the same statute. Let us stick to the Rules of Procedure and let me limit my time, give my word and take away my word. I ask you nicely so that we can do the work of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the morning in their interest. Thank you very much. The now-respected Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26829	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleague Mr. Pupovac. Nikola Tesla is one of those rare, very rare people who are the heritage of humanity. Then he's his own and then he's our Croatian because he's been here and there are two places in Croatia that I think he'd like to say it for... its powers which are not small, but are limited by me should have a monument, it is Zagreb where it did not go well and where his mind was not best recognized, so Gospić, Smiljana Gospić, lived in Gospić. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I say within my powers because the last seven years have been a lot of choices, and before the elections, people become cowards and calculators. If someone is ashamed of it, if someone thinks Tesla is the wrong religion or nation, that his father was an Orthodox priest and that citizens will resent him if he puts his monument in a city that is related to his life, then it is a political statement in some way, a political attitude. I can only call when it comes to local government, and it is issues from local authorities' jurisdiction, city authorities to do something for their town and Croatia in terms of Croatia's reputation, in terms of not recognising it is not about recognition. This is simply about optimizing resources, the fact that Tesla is the man by whom electric cars are called the only one who has its measuring unit I mean from the 20th century. Tesla is very few of those people. He's not just an inventor, he's also a basic scientist. James Watt was an inventor, Thomas Edison was an inventor without a big school. Tesla was much more than that. Tesla models and projections are pure science and, of course, practical solutions. Indeed one of the smartest people in the 20th century and our pride but also our narrowness to leave here, and he left because there was no understanding for him, he was too smart, and that's the fate of such people. Here, that's all I can say. I am sorry about that, and I call on the authorities in Gospić to find this monument a decent place, and it is in the heart of Gospić but I cannot and will not impose it on them. We can always, we can always take things out of context and put that monument somewhere else, but I keep it one I won't say with violence, but it's just not the right way. It doesn't make sense to be anywhere. It makes sense to be in Gospić. We have a monument in Zagreb and should be in Gospić. If I were the Mayor of Gospić, which I am not and I will never be, I would see in it both the business and tourist interests of my city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26830	Thank you, too. It's an indication of the esteemed representative, Milorad Popovec. He doesn't want to? Thank you very much. Let's go to the next question. Dear Representative Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26831	Mr. President, although it would be more logical for me to ask the question of health education in schools to be the minister of science, education and sports, I will ask the prime minister because Minister Jovanovic has so far responded to different opinions only by speaking hate, insulting, disdaining all those who dared to speak from NGOs and civil society organisations to the Catholic Church and Cardinal Bozanic. So I ask you whether you and your government will continue to unconditionally support the minister and views on the disputed part of the case relating to sexual education in schools and insists that he is conducted unchanged in a way that the minister forced violently overnight without a professional review of the wider circle of independent experts and without any public debate, without consulting his parents. In fact, I want to make it very clear that neither I personally nor HDZ, nor most of me am convinced Croatian citizens, are in any case against health care in schools. In fact, we advocate it, we all support it, mainly parts of physical activity, with a healthy diet, prevention of addiction, prevention of child obesity, etc. which is all the contents of the first three modules. However, we are against the parts of Module 4 Sexual Gender Equality because the Croatian public must know that this content has nothing to do with health education and that it is actually inserted into the health care programme as a coward's egg, i.e. a prank. Despite all the spins that are very successful, it is evident that gender equality has nothing to do with the preservation of health and prevention of disease. I would also like to make it very clear that in this module, I am stressing not health education which is constantly being duped as spin, unlike the first three modules, is not about any scientifically-founded settings that are completely untrue, but simply trying to impose their own values on the world-wide view of ideology. It is particularly concerned that this is imposed without any respect for different approaches and without respecting a culture of dialogue that would have to exist as a minimum between the government and its citizens. So I ask you, will your government listen to the voice of the people instead of the exclusion and arrogance so far, and change that large majority of Croatian citizens' unacceptable content? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26832	Thank you very much. And the answer to the parliamentary question, the respected representative Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26833	... Don't abuse the concept of the voice of the people. [[Specially enabled.]] Neither you nor I can adodically speak what the voice of the people is. We can focus on some polls, exact indicators that are not without error, but show the opposite of what you're saying. I will never call upon the voice of the people, though the people of me and my associates and our party and our party have chosen, and someday they may choose us again or not. That's the voice of the people. I don't think you have the right to say this, but I can't take it from you. As for health care, or his fourth education, sexual education and sexual responsibility, this is approximately at the level of what was taught in Baden-Wirtemberg 40 years ago. Unfortunately today for some people in Croatia it is a great taboo and a great enigma. For me, it's a one-time thing, but it's an important thing. A few hours of this year's debate was held, and now I could go on and say that abuses are in the interpretation of curricula or literature with the curriculum of malicious and unfair and that in this way people are led astray and that none of what was being distributed and spoken before Christmas is true and that none of those bold black sentences, those five phrases will be taught by children because it is every normal and responsible citizen and politician clearly, it will not be, it is not. I could say that unlike collateral literature, optional literature with curriculum that teachers may or may not have to read, and it's hundreds of pages that someone has minutely drawn from the context of a four-and-a-half sentence that I find ugly. I could say that, not in the curricula, but in the material of some of the items taught in Croatian schools, there are things in books that I do not want my son to reproduce and interpret them because I find them untrue, falsified and wrong. In Croatian literature, I believe that there are writers from Croatian and world heritage who don't deserve to be there, who in their public action were public semites, and in the years when anti-Semitism was just plowing and giving incentives to the creation of all those crimes. There's that in our material, not in the curricula. To form a group of citizens, to call them vineyards or chocolates to be larger, more vulminosic, or to try normal dialogue together with all of you to come to a solution, three or how many hours per term. The level of speech and teaching not from Scandinavia but from relatively conservative Germany 40 years ago. And for the end you can and you don't have to, I invite you to listen to President Obama's speech a few days ago about these issues. If such a complex society as the American could choose a person of such profile for the president twice, so it is not an accident and if such values pass, it is my value and I will not force it and support Minister Jovanovic and was very often provoked. We've heard bad words, abuse. This latest story about the Strategic Investments Act is an ugly abuse, that's not true. Look at this, we want it off the highway, it's from 2002, it has big connections. It has to do with the truth, it has to do with interpretation, abuse of public space, and patience. I hope my answer was both civilized and contentive and I really invite you to look at the speech that President Obama gave in his inaugural address where these things were spoken and things. Croatia is certainly not worse than that and our children have the right to know, think and make their own decisions and act responsibly and that is all true. And I'm going to tell you that again twenty times maybe even more calmly than I am now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26834	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the esteemed representative Željka Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26835	Thank you very much. Of course he's heard everything and everything. From literature at school to President Obama's speech which, of course, has nothing to do with what I asked and what I wanted to establish. I agree with you. The dialogue you refuse. Your government refuses dialogue continuously. And speaking of Obama, it would be very good if you would accept that attitude that Obama took about the economy and try to do something about this ruined Croatian economy. However, I just want to say something very clearly. This dialogue is exactly why I pleaded, to establish dialogue and not impose it, and not impose it on us every day. Here before yesterday, the day before when it was over TV we saw shows for North Korean-style media where little kids said it was fantastic, etc. You don't have to do that. It really doesn't need and it's not an approach that would achieve some new quality. And you said yourself, it's not about health care, it's about roll-in, literally getting the content of a world-famous guy into something called health care, and it's not right. That's what we're talking about is that it was in some kind of suggestion for some civic education or something else that would make sense. This is a prank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26836	Thank you very much. Third question and respected representative Zoran Vasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26837	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Vice President, the Vice President, the Honorable Ministers and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I will refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Young Milanka Opačić. So, in Sisak-Moslavina County, there is a major problem with the sudden closure of homes for mentally ill adults in Petrinja and the relocation of home users and the question of 23 employees who are practically out of work and at the moment when the founder of the home town of Petrinja after ten years decides to give up his founding rights to Sisak-Moslavina County. As a result of the closure of the home, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth's inspection service has come to an end. I would like to know the reasons why this house was closed so suddenly and what kind of future it has in particular from the point of view of home users and previously mentioned 23 employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26838	Answer to the parliamentary question. Deputy Prime Minister of Honor Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26839	Mr. Representative, this is another indicator of the disorder actually in the welfare system because it is a home where 89 users of adult psychics who are actually in the social care system of an non-existent institution are located. So it's a unique specimen that takes care of the mentally ill people of 24 health care workers, so they're employees of the hospital Ivo Pedisic in Sisak. Food is delivered from the hospital and it is, in fact, one institution that does not in principle exist in the welfare system, and it is about users who need to be not part of the hospital system but part of the social care system. Since such a situation is unsustainable, the county has decided to do whatever it takes to get all the conditions for it to become an institution of social care. Meanwhile, we will move 89 users to 4 other homes in the Republic of Croatia as a temporary solution. As far as employees are concerned, I don't see any reason for employees to lose their jobs in the first place because they're Dr. Ivo Pedišic, therefore they still have their jobs. It is therefore exclusively about medical staff who have so far cared for these users who should be exclusively users of the social care system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26840	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the respected representative Zoran Vasic. Nothing. Thank you very much. Let's go to Question 4. Honored representative Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26841	Thank you very much, President. Dear Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to Minister of Finance Mr. Slavko Linic. We have passed the Financial Business Act and the pre-demand settlement and the pre-demand settlement procedure made it possible for some companies, therefore those with a certain perspective to be saved from bankruptcy and to initiate the pre-demand settlement procedure. Since the date of entry into force of the law, the procedure has been initiated by only 1,400 companies or companies. It has been announced that around 20,000 companies are going to go into the process, so here's my question is, can we get information that led to such a small number of companies going into a pre-war settlement? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26842	Thank you, too. The answer to the parliamentary question is respected Slavko Linic, minister of finance in the government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26843	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The biggest problem of the Croatian economy is indifference. The indifference that last year recorded a huge number of subjects and an amount of over 44 billion kuna. The indifference that led to the fact that own capital in companies fell below 15%, and everything else was debts or regular debts to banks. The government of the Republic of Croatia has been trying to solve this problem for the past year, and this is why we started with the possibility of reprogramming debts to the state where somewhere over 6 thousand entities submitted requests, over 3 billion kunas allowed to reprogram and even with the possibility to write off interest. But that was not enough either if the problems of capital values and equity in companies were the reason that companies cannot even function, let alone invest. This prompted the government to propose a Financial Business Act with a proposal for pre-bank agreements. Thanks to me, I would say support for the single in the Croatian Parliament, the law still gives its results. It is evident that, in the old custom, no one submitted a request in time, so the end of the year is recorded by just 1400 as opposed to two days ago when the figure is slightly less than 3,000 subjects. What we look forward to in that figure is over 340 large systems, a system that records 27 billion liabilities to the state, which according to the banking system. Somewhere in these companies, there are 23,000 employees. We therefore estimate that the law itself will produce results. The government has really prepared itself so that what I can now say is that in 4 months, how long the procedure from the day of the launch should take to complete all these procedures. However, in these complex systems and large companies of more than 10 billion debts, negotiations with the banking system have been going on for two or three months and are essentially somewhere before the end of negotiations such as Dalekovod, which is very important for performing outside, such as Vartex, which has a huge number of employees and that I am not talking about the wood industry of Spačva etc. So when the big systems are at stake, we're satisfied. Obviously, the figure we expected from 20,000 is the fear of individuals that pre-profit settlements appeared, convinced by the old custom that we will probably not insist on paying 60 days, but it is evident that we will also insist, that in these figures there are unfortunately companies that have served... legal personality or that owners with debts have left them without employees and without responsibility, but unfortunately we see that there are a lot of those companies that have formed companies to acquire property over real estate in Croatia with foreign investors, so they forgot to pay the same, which means in front of the Ministry of Finance is a great cleaning and it is evident that a good part of these companies that do not have employees will only be subject to bankruptcy, not pre-determined deals. What we expect to really bring down that 44 billion record number, that after only a month We see that this figure has begun to fall, and I believe that by the end of the term of office I apologize for these four months will be halved. [[Intruder: Minister's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26844	Thank you very much. The obvious? Thank you very much. Let's go to the next 5 questions and the esteemed representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26845	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Four months ago, the HSS sent a request to the government to consider reducing VAT on food backed by nearly 50,000 signatures from Croatian citizens. Obviously, ignoring Croatian citizens by this government is regularly because these 50,000 Croatian citizens and parties that launched this action have come across the support of all citizens. There was no one who said it was not a good government move that would certainly give a positive effect to the government itself a better situation in society, so he did not deserve to answer a single short word. Well, I don't think it's a good idea to ignore it at this point, I think that all these commitments that are being imposed on Croatian citizens show that we might actually want Croatian citizens to be gone. So I'm asking the question now, if it wasn't enough of that 50,000, almost 50,000 signatures, if there wasn't enough support for union leaders, unions, citizens who were interviewed by the media, whether perhaps the indicator of the departure of Croatian citizens outside Croatia's borders to buy basic living supplies is enough indicator to finally answer that question and to say whether the government will and when it will reduce VAT to food.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26846	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, respected Zoran Milanovic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26847	The government did not impose new charges other than increased VAT clearly and loudly a year ago, everything else was reduced, everything else was reduced and we said that the burden would have to be borne by citizens. We're not going to cut the VAT to what you're proposing because I find it irresponsible and populist, and I'm surprised that at least when you're such populists, you haven't been able to collect more than 50,000 signatures because there are always people who think it's just so easy to do. I say he can't and won't. This government is responsible, state finances aren't a joke, in the first year of our term, we've been saving, maybe not enough for some, but we can't anymore because we're going to stifle any perspective of growth. And we've made it clear to a certain point that the measure of tightening and fiscal consolidation is becoming dangerous, and that's what the whole world sees, and now the IMF sees. But that we're going to buy people's affections with such adventurous petty moves, petty adventure moves, because they're petty by their intellectual capacity and adventure because the country leads to a difficult financial situation. You can't do that. We reduced VAT to tourism services, it is not perfect but there is, many will benefit from that. Of course, less where you come from, and I don't expect you to talk about it because we're all local politicians and Croatian but also local, but it would be correct to say that, it's reduced VAT. Some rates are naturally conditioned by European directives and by joining the EU, as you know, we cannot change that. I'm just asking you to check it out before you go and collect a petition for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26848	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26849	I didn't expect any different answers, Mr. President of the Croatian Government. I was just asking myself if you were aware of the situation in which Croatian citizens are located, you gave me an answer no, you are not aware of the situation in which Croatian citizens are located.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26850	Thank you very much. The sixth question and respected representative Sasa Djujic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26851	Thank you, Mr. President. President of the Croatian Government, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I ask my question to the Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr. Miranda Mrsic. In the first half of last year, a Employment Encouragement Act was adopted that regulates temporary and occasional employment in agricultural seasonal affairs. In accordance with that law, seasonal jobs may be employed by anyone not in employment or full-time employment, pensioners whose first-degree payments will improve the status of pensions and the unemployed who, at the time of seasonal work, who with breaks can last up to 90 days in one calendar year, will not be deleted from the stock market and will not be denied for unemployment benefits. Employers are obliged to buy coupons, so-called the vouchers in the FINA’s offices and record them every day of the employee’s employment, which at the end of the year are entered in the work book. The daily coupon, i.e. the voucher, is 20.09 kuna and is paid on a daily basis for pension insurance, first and second pillars and health protection at work and employment. My question is: since we are at the beginning of the new calendar year when we draw a line and analyze what was done last year, I am interested in how many vouchers were sold in 2012, how many seasonal workers were covered by this type of employment and what do you think the effects of this type of employment are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26852	Thank you, too. And the answer to your question, Honorable Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26853	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. So the voucher measure in agriculture has been in place for a year already, we must also say that this measure has been taken extremely well by employers, as well as by those who have worked black for years, who have been unprotected and according to the 31.12 data, we have sold over 36,000 vouchers. This means that over 7 million kunas were poured into the state budget, and over 62000 people worked through vouchers in Croatia. These people have worked before, so we have not hired them again but we have allowed them to be seen, and on the other hand we have allowed them to be protected because this booklet of the seasonal worker is not only a bookbook that includes beautiful vouchers, but is also the form of a work contract where these workers are protected and as far as the injury is concerned, they have their pension and health insurance rights and are protected as other workers who work on a specific and indefinitely. Thus we allowed pensioners who have worked illegally until now to work illegally, to have those who were afraid of labour inspections, to run across the fields, through vineyards, through orchards when the inspection was coming now normally working and for this they get a daily living and on the other hand we have protected the work of these people because with these vouchers we have prescribed the lowest living room for these workers, which is for 2013 will be 71.40 kuna. When we talk about employers who used this institute, it's mostly small economies, OPGs, small craftsmen, so over 76% bought vouchers, and about 26% said big companies already. Where was the largest number? The largest number of vouchers was sold clearly in Slavonia and Baranja and in the Neretva Valley. And what always asks is that since the vouchers can be returned at the end of the year, how many vouchers have returned. So, of the 36,000, only 9,000 vouchers came back in favor of the institute itself, that it was working, and it was up to us to apply this institute that was obviously good to other types of occasional and temporary work in such a way as to provide these people with the protection that we have now provided to workers who are doing seasonal work in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26854	Thank you very much, Minister. The obvious? Nothing. We are going to the seventh parliamentary issue and the esteemed representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26855	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President, members of the Government. The question is for the Prime Minister. A little over a year and two months ago, they took over the Croatian state's set of management. At that moment those two previous quarters had economic growth, we had a decline in unemployment. You announced for 2012, you predicted a growth of 0.8%. Instead, unfortunately, you have achieved a decline that will be, close to 2%, new unemployed 60,000, an increase in energy prices, primarily a monopoly, a decline in industrial production, a fall in purchasing power and the standards of Croatian citizens. Not long ago, you said you had never promised anything, and regardless of whether your growth promise is 1.8% in 2013 I think we are all interested in how you plan to achieve a growth of 1.8% in 2013 and how do you plan to reduce unemployment?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26856	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, respected Zoran Milanovic, president of the Croatian government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26857	Dear colleague, I never said I didn't promise anything, but it's your usual form of taking things out of context and trying to trick them, not your own. It's a group feature. I said I wasn't making any big promises, that I wasn't, that I was careful what I was saying, that I didn't promise anything, and we made a promise in our program. We have made real promises to bring order into the state and that after that or that we will try to guarantee people work and fair pay for honest work. That's what we promised, that's what every government promises. We've been working on it for a year. The fiscal consolidation measures that should have had sufficient determination and the determination is the basic component of the policy, to reduce public spending, to reduce the deficit. So, everything that Croatia has accumulated for years since the start of the crisis is very irresponsible, very irresponsible by closing its eyes to the fact that we are in crisis and that we cannot save because it saves whoever has it. Norway saves in the state fund, Switzerland saves, all others live on debt, smaller or larger, better or poor management. I don't like to talk a lot about the cost of borrowing the Croatian state because it's not even the point of things or it's too popular. This first thing's more important, how much less popular it's important. But at this point Croatian state papers, bonds, records are issued when they are issued and they have to be issued much more favourably than a year ago. Of course not just Croatian. So this is the climate in the wider region and Europe. The borrowing's cheaper and the money's getting cheaper. We're going to have a 1.8% growth hard, but we believe that's possible. I don't make baseless promises. I predict we'll have growth. I said this year after the first year that we made decisions that were restrictive policy is that the restrictions are no longer going, because it's negative for growth, negative for the economy, negative for society as a whole. This policy, wherever it was too radical, did not yield results either in Greece or in Spain or in Italy or Portugal. He simply has his shortcomings. We'll keep working. We're introducing order. The order in this country, with respect for human rights, but with the expansion of freedom space more than two years ago, the country is more open, and the order in state finances has said a lot more than before and there will be even more. When you attack us to kill people in taxes, I beg arguments, arguments, arguments. What taxes other than VAT, and we're sorry about that increased, which are reduced? When I talk about coefficients, I wait for someone to ask me with joy, to show examples of coefficients and wages, the level of wages in state services and public enterprises in EU countries, and to see what we've been doing here, how much we've reduced 10, and how much we've increased 2. Just ask me that, wait for those questions and look forward to the questions. And I am glad that you, unlike your colleagues on the board, and I also think that the president of your party has not said what he has not said because he has not been clear, you support the Law on Strategic Investments because you are aware of what this means for this country, that you support the Law on Agricultural Land that will prevent Kabadakian behaviour in municipalities and cities far from the public eye in the country's strategic resources, and that is agricultural land that has been shared not to say by which criteria for the past few years. It will now be done by the Croatian State and there will be countries where it must be, and where the state must not be, for example, in private life and the beds of citizens there will not be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26858	Thank you very much. Appreciation, a respected representative of Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26859	Thank you. Unfortunately, I'm not satisfied because I haven't received an answer for a single specific one. So, not a single concrete measure of how we're going to achieve a 1.8% growth. Yeah, I've been supporting the Strategic Investments Act, and I've talked about it in public and in the past year. That's not controversial. However, I will remind you only in 20 days of January 10,000 people ended up on the stock market. Of those 20 days in January, a part of it didn't even work, so the spiral of unemployment growth is dramatic. I hope you are aware that unlike 2002, when the number passed 400 thousand, today the Croats, Croatian companies are three times more in charge. So we're not talking about the same circumstances. I'm taking this opportunity to ask you here publicly not to give up the low-level railroad, from a new full profile from Rijeka to the Hungarian border. One of the few rare advantages of Croatia at this time is the geostatic position, the only way we will use this geostatic position by joining the EU and is globally attractive with this new railway, a new profile of Rijeka's port and not only Rijeka's port. Otherwise, given that I have not received any concrete answer, I am really not demagogy, personally available to come to the government and tell you what I think should be done so that Croatia should achieve economic growth this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26860	Thank you very much. Next question, 8th and Honored Representative Joseph Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26861	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, a question for you and to use your dictionary, one bizarre question. The Governor of the Croatian National Bank Vujčić recently called in one media for a political and general social consensus on the main objectives and way of achieving them, this is a quote from the newspapers, it was not clear whether he was ready to discuss and discuss the monetary policy he is conducting or as head of the fourth pillar of government that was imposed only on everyone in Croatia. In his New Year's address to the citizens of the Republic and the President of the Republic, he said whether Croatia wants to go out of the crisis not only economically but also generally social and to stop the negative trends, this will require a wider social consensus. I am now asking you if Governor Vujčić has officially referred you as Prime Minister to an initiative to reach a general social consensus and whether the President of the Republic has proposed, by means of his constitutional powers, a meeting of the Government at which a particular platform could be discussed and on the basis of which this general social consensus could be reached and whether you in the Government or we in the Assembly should discuss these initiatives in general.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26862	Answer to the question, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26863	How do you expect me to express myself in my own language to a political body such as the government you have the lowest possible opinion on could achieve something you call a general social consensus that a simple pleonasm cannot be but a general social consensus. Otherwise, it's not social, so the consensus assumes the same opinion either in general or it's gone. The consensus is a lot to talk about, but in politics you have to make decisions, you know it's hard to take responsibility, and when you call for a consensus then you need to see and what responsibility is behind it. The Governor of the National Bank has very clear and important defined powers and responsibilities, monetary policy. However, to express myself in popular language in some form of the team on the ground, it plays a defensive role, mainly to protect macroeconomic stability and protect the country from inflation. These are the main tasks, such as the role of a enlightened quarterback, or a rear player, who can cross the center here and there. The rest is done by the government, created, played forward back and scored goals if he could play. It's a division of responsibilities in the modern state. The President of the Republic is the President of the Republic, he was elected directly. However, this kind of authority is not available, and the government cannot achieve a general social consensus. The government is a poor government, in your opinion, a political body that must make decisions for the majority it has, trying to gain the affection of, say, Mr Milosevic and the like who think a little bit about laws like the Strategic Investments Act, if it goes, if we don't have time to wait and stand. And that's unfortunately, or fortunately, our destiny doesn't go any different. I would ask you once again when it comes to monetary policy because you often talk about monetary policy and major breakthroughs that as monetary authority, Croatian monetary authorities could make you concrete because sometimes I have the impression that, in order to express myself in the Glembai dictionary, whether to charm from ordinary anonymous politicians from the economic school who are constantly talking about devaluation in 2012. Look, it's not going, and it's not going, and look at yourself in Greece, look at yourself in Portugal, look at countries that have built hundreds of miles of unnecessary railroads along with the necessary vitals, and I'll tell you later what's important, which is the waste of money that has devalued their currency and computers that they can raise competitiveness. It doesn't work, competitiveness rises in a German way. Remember Italy, which in the 70s or 80s every five years devalued the lira, that's the smart monetary policy, so the Croats or others would push into Trieste because the brand was stronger, and we had stamps until the next devaluation. Kai eventually comes what we have. So be careful when you talk about monetary policy, you realize that its frameworks are very narrowed down and especially in a country that is highly euroed and whose citizens I would regret that it is but so, they were in terrible trouble to change the relationship of the kuna and the euro. I'm saying I'm not happy about it, but that devaluation chance, that space of manipulation we missed in the 1990s. We couldn't even use it because we were at war. Slovenia used it and these are the geniuses from these economic schools that the governor of the National Bank said something about used as an example of good business, how good it is, with all Croatian problems we see today in Slovenia. It's not a truly reformed economy. Croatia is in trouble and Slovenia is in trouble. The devaluation policy is a small-scale policy, short-sighted one, and yet completely meaningless in Europe, which is determined by the euro. As you know, according to the EU Treaty, the euro is the EU's currency, regardless of what all states do not have.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26864	Thank you very much. Reading the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26865	I'm going to ask the written answer because I didn't understand any of this. Language lessons, please tell the governor because I quoted the statement. I didn't make up the general social term, I was quoting the newspaper. As far as monetary policy is concerned, Mr. Prime Minister, I will not discuss this with you, but I will wait for the governor when he arrives. You can support this monetary policy but I assure you that part of the changes in it that could be made not devaluation would be a great help to you as a government to solve economic problems. But I would kindly ask you to ask what you think about the proposal of the governor of the CNB and the president of the state on the consensus, then answer that question in writing. And a lecture on cockroaches to quote again the Vlachs from that economic school and the angels who brought Croatia into this state, including Rohatinski and Vujčić, on the second occasion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26866	Thank you very much. Let's go to 9th and Honorable Representative Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26867	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to ask Mr Sinisha Hajdash Doncic, Minister of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Infrastructure. Dear Ministers, 29th April 2009 2 days after the ceremony of the opening of works, a contract was concluded between the Croatian highways Zagreb as an orderer and business association that comprises the Construction-engineering from Split, the Low Construction Hydroelectrics from Zagreb, Osijek-Oteks from Osijek as a contractor for highways A13 Vrbovac 2-Bjelovar, since the construction of that contract has not started today, or the realization of that contract, please tell me what is the obligation of the Croatian highways towards the business association since it has been damaged because the works have not started, and when and how will the construction of this share continue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26868	Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Sinisa Hajdas Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26869	Honorable representative, ladies and gentlemen. So I'm going to say one problem regarding the complete Podravska Ipsilon, so state roads, up to two months ago A13 and A12, so the highway markings that have now become DC12 and DC10, so state roads. Total damage caused by Croatian highways and which is now decomposing as we successfully untangled the knot around the so-called so-called. A sand bridge that doesn't actually exist is about a billion kuna. In fact, it was that the Croatian roads without leaving the building permit, without the purchase of land, negotiated works with the business association that you mentioned, therefore, for something that does not exist in nature. After that and, of course, what the Ministry and this Government respects, and these are above all some economic indicators of some costbenefit analysis, therefore something which is actually in the economic jargon, which has not been usual so far, and at this point is the average annual daily turnover on these shares of 5200 and 7,000 vehicles, and in previous analyses and practices it is common that 70% of this traffic enters new shares. So there is no excuse to build a highway on these shares but to build a fast, modern, wide-profile state road that allows for smoothness and to stress without charging traffic i.e. Transport to citizens and the economy, i.e. entrepreneurship and Koprivnica-križevci and Bjelagorje-Bilogora County. In conclusion, the roads are overtegorized into state roads, the works on the first shares, I am talking about 7.8km and about 20km so either towards the knot towards Koprivnica or towards Bjelovar continue already in the profile of the state road. After the end of the contract and after designing the road by this time Croatian roads, therefore I am talking about the need to create a project that does not exist for the second stage, that a location should be established and a building permit will continue to work on that state road, so as a state road profile of the state road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26870	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. It's a sign of a respected representative. Thank you very much. There isn't. The next 10th question and the esteemed representative of Denesh Shaw. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26871	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Prime Minister, vice presidents and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to the Minister of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Infrastructure Mr. Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic, and it is related to the transport link between the railways of Beli Manastir and Pecuh in the Republic of Hungary. In fact, residents of Baranja as well as the wider area of eastern Croatia were daily users of rail transport services to Pečuh. Since the inhabitants of eastern Croatia primarily of Baranja and in pre-war years maintained intensive contacts in all areas of life, economy, social activities, and especially education and cultural co-operation, especially in the post-war years since more than 10 thousand persecuted people from Baranja and occupied parts of Croatia lived in the Hungarian minority's border areas for 4 to 5 years. The average number of passengers on the route crossed 1500 in both directions. Of this number of passengers, we estimate that over 50% is primarily students and students, as well as a number of employees and users of certain assistance related to institutions and one and other countries. In particular, this link that connects border areas will be interesting in every respect after 1.7.2013, by becoming a full-fledged member of the EU. Mr. Minister, if it is, and I assume that this line is extremely inconclusive, I made a request in this regard on 5.9. and was 4.5 times in contact with your associates, however unfortunately I did not get an answer. I couldn't have come. [[Employer: Time Representative.]] I propose and ask that this line be treated as an extremely inconclusive shipline, i.e. a link to the islands, because Baranja is otherwise cut off from the rest of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26872	Answer to the parliamentary question, Honored Minister Sinisa Hajdas Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26873	Restructure of the railroad is one of the biggest challenges of this government, one system that is being run, it may even be a hospice. First of all, some of the actions that have been done, then I will go to the answer specifically to your question is, in fact, according to the European Railway Directives, and also to the logic, by sound logic I speak, is the abolition of HZ Holding and the division of society into three components: cargo, passenger, infrastructure. And for the first time since it does not exist in Croatia, so there is no transport strategy since 2009, but it will exist in 2014-2024, for the first time a strategic document has been drawn up, so let's say... from the profession, so the rail strategy concerning infrastructure, as well as passenger transport. I'm gonna put Cargo on the sidelines in this section. So as for infrastructure, so as important for passenger traffic, the works on the European Corridor route are agreed, so from Skradnik, I will say to Koprivnica, which will make up a future... 2 billion-euro corridor, which is so-called. "Low" stripe. On the other hand, increased investments in regional railways have also been increased because if we look at only the economic profitability of passenger traffic, then they would be kept exclusively in the wider area of the City of Zagreb and the SZ County because it is only under quotes with a subsidisation that is profitable. Now I'm going back to the so-called. PSO in railway or passenger transport, so some public service bonding or bonding i.e. The obligation of both local and regional and state to co-finance passenger transport both in aviation and in the railways, but there is one small cache or trick, so it is not possible to subsidise international traffic, and by the indicators precisely for this stock you mentioned, I know that you will not be satisfied with the answer but I say sometimes some reforms are not going to say painful but simply possible. Unfortunately, you have average train fill-up of the White Manastir-Pechuh 7, daily 7 persons, meaning at an annual level of 2500. So it's impossible without a subsidy where we can't subsidize so we can keep that railroad in the first place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26874	Thank you, too, Ministers and the testimony of Honorable Representative Danesh Soya.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26875	Well, I'm happy with this argument, but trying to solve with the bus doesn't make it any good because it's triple the price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26876	Thank you, too. We're going to the 11th question and the esteemed representative, Zvonko Milas. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26877	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Ministers and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The question I will refer to the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic, concerns the announcement of the introduction of a Cyrillic letter into official use in the City of Vukovar area. Aware of the sensitivity of the reactions that followed, I don't want to incriminate low passions and I really don't want to politicise or dispute the legality of making legal decisions, but I can't even keep my mouth shut. The Vukovarian past has thousands of reasons to say that it is not yet time for such changes. Vukovar is a symbol of the suffering and suffering of all of Croatia, it has been mumbled and brought to ruin by those who came on tanks and with messages written with Cyrillic. Cyrillic has never been an official letter in Vukovar, and only introspection can we look at as a mere administration. The announcement itself caused great emotions among all, especially those who, after all, had returned after the humiliation after the persecution, still live on the sites of their neighbors today. The Cyrillic didn't just crack a letter for them. Thinking about everything, I wonder if its introduction will be a contribution or a difficult obstacle to the continuation of reintegration, a common life, at the end of understanding between Croats and Serbs. I'm afraid the result could be decomposing of everything that's been done in the last 15 years. Mr. President, yesterday, if I remembered correctly at Maslenica, you said freedom had no alternative. I completely agree with you. Some decisions and some values simply do not have, but I think this decision could have an alternative and therefore I ask you whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia and you will personally consider delaying this law in order to give people living in this area the opportunity to learn about and decide on the moment of application of this law. Such decisions were made in the past, always aimed at understanding among people, which I think is the goal and interest of all of us, especially people living in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26878	Answering the parliamentary question, Prime Minister respected Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26879	Dear colleague, I said that whoever is doing a little security is willing to give up basic freedom doesn't deserve security or freedom. It's an old saying, terribly true. But now, before I try to answer your question, I'm asking myself if you're offering any solution, because I'm not going to tell you that these are all the regulations that the HDZ's majority adopted, in all possible formats and interactions, but in all of them, of course, when it was politically convenient. Because I believe that this is not only a question of the rule of law, so the implementation of this norm, the provisions of the Croatian Constitution and the constitutional law, but it is a question of a proper and upright state that is the same to all its citizens, which respects its laws and thus proves that Croatian laws are being implemented in Vukovar. It's Croatia. Whether the Serbs in Vukovar used Cyrillic before the war or not, I don't care at all, that's their thing, as long as they have the right, and I think it's the right thing to do. I find it a little shocking actually, when I look at, I think about Croatian identity, we are the only people of Western Christianity who have a letter, it's a verb, it's ours, it's a sophisticated letter that's not only a translated Greek alphabet but it has a deeper meaning, so both prayers and numbers, it has no one but Croats. You want a perimeter, you want a corner that came from the north, you want a Bosnian that's primarily a Croatian Cyrillic. So we as such a people, as a nation that inherits such a unique thing contests the right for Serbs to use Cyrillic. So make a suggestion to put a moratorium on the law, it's beneath me. Let me tell you that in 2009, in Vukovar, when Zeljko Sabo became mayor but had no majority in the Vukovar Council, that HDZ, HSP Ante Starcevic and logically SDSS, it logically made me decide to change the Statute of the city of Vukovar and to give the Serb minority in Vukovar the same right before the number of Serbs was over 1/3, before that. This was a HDZ policy conducted by Zagreb. And that's why I'm asking you when you say that you don't burn low passions, you don't burn because you said it very coldly, but that the thesis is low, it's low. No passion, but logic is low. So we're the people who have their Cyrillic. And I'm sorry the kids at school don't learn. When I was a kid, I grew up with a verb, because our neighbor, a rational Primorac, borrowed from us a Sunday Vesnik and returned it always with a full Scandinavian on the verb. He cheated a little bit because he wasn't the same as the Latin, so he couldn't complete it. But it was always filled. That's ours. The Serbs have Cyrillic. What's gonna use their stuff. Someone gave me an example of Vrbowski. In Vrbovska, the Serb minority has constitutional and legal use of facts, however, there are very few Serbs in the town of Vrbovski, there was no conflict. The prudence and wisdom of some people sitting here, Jože Bjelkovac, there was no conflict between Croats and Serbs, all the time, were loyal citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and this is a different culture than the one in Vukovar. I don't say culture, culture, or counterculture, but a different collective memory. There was a war in Vukovar, and if we wrote something in our Constitution, and we had a reason why we put it in the Constitution, because it's good, then we have to respect it. Otherwise, suggest a change to the Constitution and then explain it to those in Western Europe who have not yet ratified the Croatian Accession Agreement and how we stick to the highest European standards and what kind of state we are, what kind of society we are and what kind of people we are and what kind of Croats we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26880	Thank you very much. It's an indication of the esteemed representative of Tink Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26881	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, in my introduction, I said that I really do not dispute the legality of making legal decisions, but the laws that are being made by people. Whether it's HDZ, SDP or someone else I really don't want to think about right now. However, none of these people can predict or predict the situation in 5, 10, or 15 years. I just want to say if applying some law can cause unwanted consequences, so if it's going to be negative then we don't need that law. Such a law can be changed, complemented, abolished, or put into rest. In Vrbovska, it was what it was. Unfortunately, there was a war in Vukovar. It wasn't a conflict. We were attacked in Vukovar, we were destroyed in Vukovar, what happened in Vukovar that I wasn't going to the end now. And it happened and it happened with a Cyrillic sign four Ss, over every rape, over every destruction of a church, a house or anything. So I'm asking you in terms of everything that's been done and in terms of people who are majority population and I think everyone well-intentioned will understand that. Don't let what war didn't work out, what the aggressor failed in the war, no matter what we were expelled, we didn't leave. People came back and live there. Don't happen by any chance that today in peace if a Cyrillic enters to be crucial to the departure of Croats from those parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26882	Thank you, Your Honor. Next 12 questions and...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26883	We need your help. We need HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26884	Thank you very much. Please! Let's go to 12 questions and honorary representative Damir Rimac. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26885	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected prime minister of the Croatian government and his associates. My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Tihomir Jakovina. Therefore, Mr Minister, according to the Republic of Croatia, after 1 July this year, Croatia will be an integral part of the EU, which will open up in fact numerous opportunities for funds and for applying to these funds of Croatian farmers, namely Croatian producers or farmers. You often repeat that the Croatian village, the Croatian farmer, will then be a fund of over 300m euros for use. But it is still unclear to anyone how we will actually get to that money and whether we are able as citizens and as producers, as farmers to make these projects and apply them to certain funds. So my particular question is this. What the Ministry of Agriculture will do or concretely do to enable Croatian farmers, i.e. farmers and producers to obtain these projects and whether they are working on projects of education, information, information and generally some kind of transport or help in the construction of these projects, and what could be financed from those funds. And finally, do you have any approximations or simulations on what amount of funds the Republic of Croatia will be able to withdraw those funds by 2014? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26886	Thank you, too. Answering the parliamentary question, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia respected Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26887	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Roman, not 300 million. Joining the EU will make it more than 730m euros, i.e. over 5 billion kuna, available to Croatia's agrarian. Here I am talking about the EU Agricultural Guarantee Fund or direct payment of 373m euros, 333m euros for rural development, 30 million wine envelopes and 10 million for demining. When we talk about the direct payment of the aid or guarantee fund of these 373m euros, the paying agency is fully in line with the EU... and is already ready and making payments for production in 2012 according to this model, i.e. the accreditation of the Agency was issued in December. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for these other funds that are much more important to us and much more important to us, I am talking about 333m euros in EU Rural Development Fund, which is where we will have to make a terrible effort. You asked what the ministry was doing and how the ministry works. We work primarily on administrative capacity preparation of all institutions from the ministry itself through agencies, through all agencies related to the Ministry of Agriculture, the agricultural advisory services and all actors involved in the promotion, education and support of projects. For the next programming period or programming period 14, 20 is a new rural development programme. It is a strategic document that will actually enable the withdrawal of most of these funds. Through it, a large number of our agricultural producers will have the opportunity to apply and invest without restrictions on sectors or on production capacity and the amount of investment. If that's what we're going to do, I can't tell you that here because I consider myself a serious politician, but I'll tell you what we did in 2012. We did, for example. The IPARD, did SAPARD and IPARD actually prepare us for these funds that are ahead of us of the 333 million kuna that will be available to us from 2014 onwards. Part of the funding will be allocated in 20 percent of the amount to direct payments, and the rest of the 265 million we have to have projects. When I talk about the IPARD in 2010 and 2011, we only had 13 projects on the basis of which we withdrew funds from the EU budget of less than 23 million kuna. In 2012, 58 projects, 125 million kuna, 5 and a half times as much money was withdrawn in 2012 as in 2010 and 2011. Okay, I'm happy with that score. But not entirely. Why? Because we had 26 million at our disposal, so we pulled only 65% of what we really could. We need to be much better, all institutions have to work quality and only the Ministry of Administration, the agencies, the advisory service on the ground, first of all, no more officials, they have to be help, they have to be transport, they have to be partner, they have to be agricultural producers to make these projects. The new rural development programme will enable us to define the measures by which we will be able to do so, as far as we are competent, quality in project preparation, in the application, in the implementation of these projects, we will withdraw as much funds. This gives us some certainty that we're on the right track, that the system is going forward, that we're doing it the way it's supposed to work, and we all need to be even better together. Promotion, education, assistance, consulting our agricultural producers basic task of the entire system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26888	Thank you, too. It's a sign of a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26889	Dear Ministers of Agriculture, I personally take 15 years of participation, and I am pleased with your response primarily that in your response I read both the organisational and strategic change in the approach of agrarian production or agrarian policy, and I believe that the percentage of funds that will be withdrawn from European funds will be growing and greater every year and you have said the key word and the key thesis that the Croatian Agricultural Payment Agency is prepared and is in line with all the EU legislative frameworks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26890	Thank you, Your Honor. Next 13 parliamentary issues and respected representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26891	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Prime Minister, distinguished Minister and Minister of the Croatian Government. My question is 13 though I think it will not be unfortunate, it refers to Minister Ivan Vrdoljak, and the question concerns the Chepin oil factory, which was founded in 1942, which for a long time had a quality product and that in 2012, the company came into major problems. I am interested in the fact that at the end of 2012, oil from Chepin oil was re-emerged with excellent quality, I wonder whether and how sales are going, whether there are any interested customers and when we can expect final offers binding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26892	Answer the question, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Honorable Ivan Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26893	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, respected MPs, a classic Croatian story. In 2011, 140 workers formally employed, working there, 40% capacity for, three, four months no salary, debt huge, debts on all sides, perspective none. That's the fact we took over in 2011. Then comes the serious supervisory board, serious management, with the help of the Ministry of Economy, AUDIO we manage to agree with the banks deblocked, people buy raw materials, get customer confidence, go first into service production. Years before that, there was no Chepin oil off the shelves because 40% of the processing capacity was useful for others not with the name Chepin which is less important for those people who pay. They've been working all year, they've been filling up their capacities, paying back their backs, doing normal business, and then we're going into the privatisation process. And here in 10 months we actually made a decision in the government about the privatisation procedure already in 12 months all letters of intent, three letters of intent, to me someone once told me all over three years ago there's no perspective for Chepin, the market will. No new oil, no room for them. That factory will close because there's no perspective, and I've even started to doubt those stories. Of course, that's what those who got into that situation said. Today three letters of intent, three serious offers.../The speaker doesn't understand... all three bidders very seriously made. They finished 24.12. 04. 01. so we respond quickly, we send them calls for binding bids by 31. 1st binding offer, surely no case will happen as it was known to happen that there will be no binding bids. There are interested customers for what is good, for what is perspective, for what we could do together with the Supervisory Board and the administration could make much better than before. So I can tell people from Chepin, of course there's going to be a restructuring, there won't be 150, 140 will be 100 but the real paid and earned jobs and wages. The perspective of Chepin is I expect already in the 2nd month much clearer and much better than far better than it was a year and a half ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26894	Appreciation of the esteemed representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26895	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. This is proof that with the right organization and the right administration behind those fallen agricultural processors, something can be done. And I would like, on behalf of all those who deal with agriculture, that all of these capacities that are still in Slavonia can be put on their feet to help the Government of the Republic of Croatia help AUDIO enable all these entities to survive and preserve jobs. Otherwise, this is about 205 employees, and most likely after restructuring, there will be about 140, 150 of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26896	Thank you, Your Honor. We're going to the 14th parliamentary issue today and Honored Representative Zeljko Schamper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26897	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Prime Minister, Minister. I refer my question to Justice Minister Orsat Milenic. Today we are increasingly faced with a large number of performances over the resources of Croatian citizens, and among them is a large number of pensioners. For example, in September 2012 out of 47,000 pensions on them, as many as 30% are accounted for by more than 1/3 of pensions allowed. I agree that debts must be paid back but I am against the fact that citizens are paid full wages or pensions that they and their families are left without any means to live. In this respect, neither open protective accounts nor any restrictions on the level of enforcement in the IAS and the Pension Insurance Act are supported because debtors sign in their ignorance or indiscriminately with the banks of the debtor or of the public records, thereby giving consent to the pedicure of all their accounts and their movements. I think it would be necessary to apply the position of the Constitutional Court's decision which warns that legal restrictions must be applied to the exercise that provide the debtors with the means to feed themselves and their families. The Constitutional Court also reminds that it is in accordance with Article 1. The Republic of Croatia is a social state, and the solution says that restrictions on enforcement are extremely social. We also talked about the performances at the last one, but today I have to mention the most recent subject of the exercise, which in December paid off the debt to the pensioners. Although in Article 28. The Retirement Fund Act states that the share of fund members cannot be subject to the exercise that has been neglected in this case. I am not going to ask you a question for a question, but I am asking that you and your ministry and also the Government of the Republic of Croatia find a solution that would not make such unfair and green pursuits a growing sea of pensioners and other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Party of Retirement considers that no bank documents or public records shall be above the laws adopted in this Assembly, and in particular not outside the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26898	Thank you, Your Honor. Your question is answered by a member of the government of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Honor Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26899	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs, Your Honor. So we're absolutely aware of the problem you're talking about, and he's one of the things we're trying to deal with. In the amendments to the executive law that we passed in October, we've just limited these things that you're talking about and they're not possible according to current legal decisions. Therefore, on the one hand, it is prescribed that no application can be made at all. These are from children's allowances, legal abstention fees, unemployment benefits and the like, and in others as well as pensions that you mention but also salaries are precisely defined which part is not to be completed. We went one step further, and in this law we explicitly banned that a potential enforcer's duty gave consent to a seized greater than that amount that was limited by law. So, after a new solution, none of it's worth it. It is not worth the consent to collect the total amount. What is our problem and what is the real problem are the previous legal solutions that allowed at some times to give consent to the confiscation of total income, both wages and pensions, and everyone else. We are working on it now in implementation, and here with our colleague Linic, we are working on it so that we can find a mechanism not to implement it in real implementation. So the solution now, according to the current structure, can't happen in the future. We need to take care of those cases where it was agreed before, and we also need to know that at the time it was allowed, legally justified, and that we need to balance some legal expectations that were then created on the one hand and on the other with the situation that we have today. So the solution isn't easy, but we're working on it, and I'm sure we'll have an answer for a little while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26900	Thank you, Minister. The reading of the esteemed representative, Željka Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26901	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I would also like to quote to the public something from the Constitutional Court's solution to this problem, which says "it is not fundamentally legally acceptable and contrary to the rule of law which is prescribed in Article 3. The Constitution as a basis for interpreting the Constitution that workers are being seized by full income or pension, bypassing provisions that protect 2/3 of net wages in the Republic of Croatia". The fact is that citizens sign anything but we need to find such a solution that we protect them from their signatures ourselves. From a human and social point of view, it is unacceptable for me to have a family without any means to live. There's a debt reprogramming institute but it looks only for big players and not for a little man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26902	Thank you, too. 15 questions and a respected representative, Jaksa Baloevic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26903	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Asked by a group of citizens, fellow citizens of my questions this way I think is unusual but I think it makes sense to ask him. Namely, in the past system, all employees were singled out of personal income for housing, some got an apartment, some got a loan, and some got nothing. I therefore ask Mr Linic whether it is possible to correct the injustice for all those who have singled out in the previous housing system without getting anything, whether it is possible in financial terms, whether it is possible in the form of shares that have a certain value or with regard to encouraging housing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26904	Thank you, too. Answer to the parliamentary question, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26905	Mr. Representative, let's get back to the past. By 1990, there was indeed a legal obligation to pay 4% of the income for housing savings. Most of these funds were used by companies or then by social housing companies, and those who were not engaged in this were investing in solid housing funds at local environment level and were therefore shared by housing lists, social programmes. It was a past that ended with new legal solutions from '91. For years, there is no obligation to return. There is always a question of what is going on with these apartments that individuals have received under the House Relations Act, and then we remember the new House Sales Act, so it's always a question of where the money from the sale of apartments ended, so let's remember the legal solutions of '91. until 2000, where the money that remained in local self-government units was used to finance the housing social list, to finance the purchase of private apartments so that some housing rights and housing relations could be realised, to finance, to maintain apartments where they were in cultural cores and cultural monuments. Therefore, the money was spent on that part. The companies which kept most of the money from selling part of the money were carried into capital, the other part for the care of their employees. And as for the state and its share that he collected from the sale of dwellings, it was to address the housing needs of state, public service employees and the reconstruction of war-torn areas. Therefore, all the sales obtained again were spent on legal proposals. At this point, some cities with new funds are those who in some way are taking care of their citizens who have no roof over their heads, but these are still budget funds, and in fact there are no more funds from the part that has been sold or spent in the '90-2000 period. So, since it was solidarity someone was paying, someone was using, that the same sale of apartments had its own legal procedure, there's no obligation to those citizens who once singled out housing contributions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26906	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the respected representative, Jaksa Baloevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26907	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I think it would be good, since I assume there's going to be a law on real estate tax to at least then consider those who singled out and didn't get anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26908	Thank you, Your Honor. 16 parliamentary issues and respected representative Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26909	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'd have one question for our Minister of Agriculture. I would like to know if he can say a few words because so far I have not had the opportunity to hear either at these meetings of the Parliament or at the meetings of the Government, or in the Croatian media, which is its government's strategy for the development of agriculture and food industry in the area of Slavonia and Baranja, or perhaps in view of today's situation, we can call it a strategy for the naked survival of agriculture and food industry in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In 2011, about 312000 people worked there according to statistics. I don't have the data as much as it is today, or during 2012, it means the duration of your term of office, but I'm sure that this number probably decreased by at least 1/3 of that number. The fact is that in 2011, 2010 means all those years before, and I believe in your year, and that's why I'm asking for a written reply, that the mass of agricultural products is imported, means the products that we can produce ourselves. Here I will say that only meat imported in 2010 was 72000 tonnes, that vegetables imported in 2011 were 104000 tonnes, that fruit and grapes were imported 45000 tonnes. You see what the quantities are, and at the same time in our country, these same products are being thrown away and they can't be sold. I know that your answer will also be a free market, that we are not able to do anything about it. That's not true, you're the minister of a state ministry who has very high powers and opportunities to do something about it. Do not let spent goods and goods of poor quality in the European Union throw away as frozen meat that for several months and even years stands in the freezers drive and sell to our people, while at the same time...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26910	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26911	Thank you, Mr. President, I agree with you that Croatia is an excessive importer of food and I will try to illustrate it with just a few examples. Croatia covers exports on a 60% basis. In 2011, we imported almost a billion and 100 million kunas more food and food products than we exported them. The data for 2012 is a little bit better, a little more encouraging. We increased agricultural product exports by 5%, decreased imports by 4%, and reduced the deficit by about 135 million kuna. A slight shift but still insufficient is that deficit of $739 million, I'm sorry, I said kuna, dollars in relation to the external trade in agricultural and food products. Croatia is a large importer. This is the result of structural weaknesses, but also the wrong agricultural policies for many years. I'll try to illustrate it with just a few things. The law on agricultural land under the existing law put only 29% of the land into operation. From 890000 to state-owned agricultural land, only 262000 are processed in 10 years. Little fragmented-pattered plots. The average area of our family's economy is 5.6 ha. Insufficient irrigation, illegal agricultural facilities, unsettled land books, poor funding sources for agricultural production all these years, lack of strategic documents both at national and regional level. If we add to this the considerable need of our producers, incompetence, inconsistencies of their production with what the producers of the countries from which we import, then we actually come to a reason for lack of management, in fact business management in part of our agricultural producers and their disorganization we come to the reason why such negative trends are in the primary food production itself. This should also be added to the processing industry, the food industry which, in such circumstances, has focused on imports of raw materials in recent years and has not given our producers the opportunity to place their products through the food, or processing industry. Our producers are thus uncompetitive, their products are too expensive and there has been a shut-down of some productions. What are we doing? I said we work intensively, and I supported the data on the greatest use of EU funds and the resources available to us. We've been doing structural reforms all year. The new Law on Agricultural Land is before this House at this session, the Law on Legalisation of Objects, we are working on regulating the market, the arrangement of the support system that has been given in large amounts all these years without proper control. We are working on the structure of inspection services that will be much more quality and much better controlled by everything that comes to us. We can't and you said yourself to close our borders, we can't close the market. But we can also work to increase the competitiveness of our primary production. The moment we have a more competitive not only primary agricultural production but also a food industry that is an important factor and which together with primary producers will be fairly exposed in this year and year of entry itself. We'll be able to produce better, better quality and cheaper. And this product that has a quality, which has a brand, which has a market to offer on our market and perform. A good example isn't all so black, it's a good example of mandarin producers. Croatian production in this year was somewhere on the basis of 60,000 tonnes. Croatia's needs are 12 to 15000 tonnes. All that surplus up to 60,000 tonnes is exported to the EU market and the world market. So we can produce, we can produce, we just have to create conditions. We're working on them. Reforms and increasing the competitiveness of primary production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26912	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the respected representative Ivana Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26913	I'm happy with those statistics you've been putting out, it's really like that. However, we cannot agree on this interpretation. I agree that our exports, i.e. in the good part covered exports by imports, but once again I stress our product is exported because it is of quality, and what we import is an apple that has been standing in a freezer in Italy or Austria for more than a year and they have to clean up their freezers to get to the new office. Then it is exported to Croatia because it cannot be sold anywhere further. They're importing pork from us, veal, meaning that fresh meat that's first class, and when there's three or six or nine months frozen, they practically have to throw it out by their own rules. It is cheaper to take it to Croatia where we earn money, because there are no laws and regulations that condition the quality of the imported goods. I'll tell you one fiction to paint today's situation in Slavonia and Baranja. In Yugoslavia they said Slavonia can feed all of Yugoslavia, today they say it can feed half of Europe and I'll tell you what reality is. The balance is That your policy has led to Slavonia no longer feeding herself. [[The Intruder President: Time Dear Representative.]] For the first time in Slavonia, there are hungry people.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26914	Thank you very much. It is up to the honourable representative Damir Rilje and the 17th parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26915	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister and all members of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here's my question to Minister Arsen Bauk. Mr. Minister, after two decades of complete disorientation of the voters list, the government decided to introduce order to prevent electoral manipulations of various kinds from voting dead persons to fictitious addresses at which a few dozen voters were reported without actually staying at these addresses or having their place of residence. It is just astounding that such a situation has been tolerated for years and that there has always been some reason not to put order into the list of voters. My question would be like this. Can you tell what your knowledge of these polling blocks were about, or why it wasn't done? In what state he is today, or in what state he is found in relation to the past period, and what degree of settlement of the voters list is expected until the local elections, i.e. what effect do you think the expected degree of settlement of the voters list will have on the upcoming local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26916	Thank you, too. The answer to your representative question from Minister of Honor Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26917	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. At the end of last year, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Election Registration, the Law on residence, the Law on Local Elections and amendments to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. These four laws create a framework to bring, in reasonable time, the list of voters into the state in which they should be, that it be one record that will no longer cause controversy and be proof of state and system arrangements and the application of those laws by the competent state authorities in which the ministries and other state bodies are involved, so it tries to make, in the shortest time, the data that are in the list of voters to those who are, let's say, so real. On Sunday, 27 January, an extraordinary election will be held for the mayor of Drniš, where a new Law on Election Register will first be applied. In the previous elections, i.e. in the last elections, the EU's EU entry referendum in Drnis, for example, included about 8 thousand and 800 voters. In Sunday's extraordinary elections, there are just over 7600 voters, which corresponds to the number of Drnis residents and slightly more than the number of adult residents of Drnis. There were eight people over 100 years of age on the list of voters. By applying new legal solutions and checking on the ground, today there are no persons older than 100 years of age in the list of voters because no person older than 100 years of age there lives on which, for example, we found information from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute that they were informed that people died abroad and stopped paying their pension. For example, three have been found not to be registered at addresses, and witnesses have stated that they died abroad and one person has been found dead in Croatia, but this information has not been reported to the competent authorities, which would, based on the old law, delete voters from the list and, for example, through all of these voters, we have made a note that the persons died, that they have or have no evidence of death. This process will take place until the local elections in all units of local self-government, the accuracy of the residence records will also be determined, which we expect great assistance from the Ministry of the Interior and, within one devastating time limit, the list of voters will correspond to the real state. A list of voters, a census as you have seen, is causing some other controversy and certainly unsettled conditions make it difficult for the state to function in some other segments. Why hasn't it been done so far? Some things were done but not enough, they were not made. Probably because there wasn't enough political will to make it even high enough pressure to change things. Who'd that go for? It probably worked out for those who had been in a position to change it so they didn't. Therefore, a kind of electoral manipulation is always possible but by opening up, so by setting up a list of voters, this possibility will be significantly narrowed down from now on. There are also another 200 thousand voters who are registered to residences at non-existent addresses. It's an existing but nonexistent so-called. the voters. We are therefore working on that all those who have the address 0 or bb, these are the most common and non-existent addresses, so to determine the correct address from the register of spatial units because every house in Croatia has its own home number. And we have a section of the citizens that's registered at real addresses and they don't live there. So we want to determine their real addresses and thus bring the list of voters into line with reality and local elections will be with the right list of voters and the next parliamentary elections will be with the right list of voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26918	Thank you very much. Answer? Nothing. 18 parliamentary issues and respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26919	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable vice presidents, members of the government. My question is addressed to the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Mr. Hajdaš Doncic, and it is related to the Kraljevica shipyard, or to the question of using concessions at the maritime good shipyard of Kraljevica. According to the information we have from the public, the bankruptcy procedure is in accordance with the law and is well on its way to completion in relatively short time. What is a problem at this time is that the Kraljevica shipyard is in bankruptcy despite the questions of certain economic operators who would like at this time and the possibility that at this time, while the shipbuilding site is in bankruptcy there, economic activity is not available because the question of renting or sub-concessioning concessions on the property of the Royal Shipyard is not regulated. My question is going in the direction of whether this modality proposed and requested by the bankruptcy manager and committee of creditors to enable, with the agreement of the ministry, the granting of a sub-concession permit will be possible and within what time period, since these 5 bidders on the table now have a bankruptcy manager to hire somewhere between 200 and 300 employees at the moment and precisely from shipbuilding, and that is precisely those who unfortunately received cancellations about 6 months ago when the shipyard went into bankruptcy. It's very important of course for the Queen, it's a large economic entity in the Queen but of course for The region, but we are not talking about Croatia. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26920	Thank you, too, Your Honor. The Minister of Honor, Sinisha Hajdash Doncic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26921	Thank you. At the end of last year, the bankruptcy manager of the Queen made a request for a lease. The lease in accordance with the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports is not possible, so in cooperation with the Office of Law and the State's Attorney's Office, we started to say that I will operationally solve the problem, 4 or 5 economic operators who intend to continue production at the site of the former shipyard. So 15 days ago, we sent a proposal to a 10 address, which is what my fellow ministers and the Office of Legislatives and the DORH have sent to the sub-concession, and after the fact that we are going to say the exact footage of the existing concessions for the possibility of subconcession. So until yesterday. We have received a response from five ministries, i.e. I believe that by the end of the week we will get a positive opinion from all the ministries and state bodies so that within 14 days at one of the next government meetings, I believe at the end of January or in early February we will send a request for a sub-concession, with the condition that the commercial companies mentioned above were, above all, certified by the public notary, that when the bankruptcy process ends, they themselves cease, and we know that the bankruptcy procedure can last N plus a few so that we create all the preconditions for starting within about twenty days of production and for re-employment of 200 employees in these mentioned 4 or 5 companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26922	Thank you, Minister. And a demonstration of the respected representative of Hope Turine-Djuric. Nothing. Thank you very much. 19th question and respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26923	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to address my question to the Deputy Prime Ministers and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Vesni Pusic. In fact, in the past 10 years, Croatia has made exceptional efforts to implement reforms and adapt to those standards that EU member states must comply with all with the clear goal of joining the society of European countries in the 7th month of 2013 and becoming a full member. Over the past 10 years, hundreds of laws have been amended, and these changes have not only been of formal character. They also had certain conconsequences behind them. Many of them were certainly needed beyond that context for each ambitious society, but many of them were both demanding and painful. Some decisions have also been made and some compromises that have been even precedentd in some cases. It was all a role to achieve this higher goal and this national interest of a strategic nature. Let me just remind you of the compromise that Croatian politics did when it gave up the full application of the economic belt, just to illustrate how much we have put as an imperative over the past 10 years. However, I ask the question because of the future because our future and all our plans and ambitions are linked in the most part precisely to obtaining EU entry status. The question is, how does the ratification process work? How many of the criteria have we met and what is the perspective when it comes to the five other ratifications that we expect to achieve in the 7th month according to our ambitions and plans?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26924	Thank you very much. The answer to the parliamentary question respected Deputy Prime Minister Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26925	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank you for asking, Mr. Representative. The 27 member states that must ratify our accession agreement therefore must confirm that their highest representative bodies therefore consider Croatia fully ready and able to function as a full member of the EU. So far, 27 countries have done so and confirmed 22. The last time of the day, Great Britain. We still need the Queen's consent and signature, but the parliamentary procedure is over. Remember that in October we received a second monitoring report defining a specific 10 points that we need to fill out. So far, I've been saying ten-point talk, and we've filled eight. That's changed. We've fulfilled the points. Of the 10 dots, we've filled 10. On Monday, Minister Vrdoljak, who prepared and negotiated restructuring and privatisation models for Brodosplit, Brodotrogira and in the final stages, agreed with the Commission on the May 3rd model. The commission accepted this and is working to realise and finalise and sign the contract in the 2nd and 3rd months. However, as the Vice-President of the Commission and the Commissioner for Competition in whose jurisdiction the shipbuilding has handled the agreement with Minister Vrdoljak and the job has been completed. He did not get to see some particular attention in the Croatian public because it was done well and because it ended successfully. But I have to say that this is an unusually important job that was to be solved otherwise in 2006, then it was a deadline. Unfortunately, it wasn't solved, he got rid of it definitely on Monday. The second point was crossings, building exit houses and entering Neum. In the beginning, it was said that it would be physical and non-necessary homes, not food crossings and live animals, so they did not need accreditation, that they would not be completed on 31 March, the problem was that the construction pace was such that it seemed not to be completed on 31 March, but in the meantime, the finance minister and the finance ministry took direct responsibility for building it and it began to function in fact in a way that today is completely clear that they would be completed on 31 March. It is therefore fulfilled as a commitment. We do, of course, a number of other things that aren't in those 10 points, but 10 points is clear. We have five more countries to ratify our contract, four procedures to begin. The German who planned to end it in June after a clear procedure, meanwhile, moved it a month earlier. All other countries are in line with what they announced, the only country that has not begun ratification is Slovenia. There we had 5 different initiatives related to how to solve the problem of the Ljubljanska banka because the Slovenian side binds ratification to solve the Ljubljana fairy tale. Our financial experts meet on January 29th, but I have an appointment with the Slovenian Foreign Minister to try and find and arrange a modality of detachment in the Slovenian parliament and I must say that we seem to have a real and good chance of getting rid of it relatively quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26926	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the respected representative, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26927	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Madam Vice President and Minister, I am pleased with your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26928	Next 20 questions and a respected representative, Franco Vidovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26929	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected prime minister and members of the Croatian government, colleagues and fellow MPs. My question is to Mr. Predrag Matic, Minister of Defense. Dear Ministers, the Defence Registry has been published and we are witnessing that it exists without any major earthquakes that have been dramatically announced in the first row by HDZ deputies. It is therefore evident that there has been no indictment in the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of BiH, that there has been no stop at the borders of the Republic of Croatia, or at the borders of those countries and the arrest of defenders. In fact, we have argued from the very beginning that, on the basis of the publication of the Defence Register, there will be no indictments and even less to some other situations. We stand by the claim that the publication of the Defence Register is the publication of a list of honorable people who are responsible for defending their country. Dear Ministers, can you tell us what are the positive elements of the publication of the Defence Register, but what are the motives to prevent and prevent all forces... the publication of the Defence Register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26930	Thank you, too. Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Predrag Matic. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26931	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here I would like to stress first that the possibility that the negative effects of the publication of the register were not at all, and it is not today either. I've been saying that since the beginning. The registry is a positive thing and as such can only bring positive things. It took many years for the register to be published, so it will take time for it to get the real effects of its publication. But here and after a little over a month, it's enough for everyone to know how much it took to publish it. The most important positive shift after the publication of the register is that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia finally got the opportunity to get to know the most honorable names of the Homeland War and national history, and that was also the meaning of the register, that the names of true Croatian defenders remain recorded not only in history but in the consciousness of all Croatian citizens. Despite all the announcements by opponents of the publication of the register, the register has shown that for true Croatian defenders there is no danger and that defenders are absolutely safe and free to travel outside the borders. Thus, the register is also a confirmation that the defence role was honorable and fair and that Croatian defenders have nothing to fear or cause for fear. There are no suicides, no arrests at the border, no new charges, and they were all so-called. arguments against the publication of the register. I'm very happy about it, and if there are any who aren't happy about it, I don't care. The positive effect of the publication of the register is that the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence have shown by publishing the register that these are ministries that respect the Croatian public, public interest and the right to know and to be informed. It should be said that the defenders themselves were given the opportunity to look at their status in the register for free and very easily in the Ministry of Defence or in the home affairs of documents that were not accurate. The motives of the publication of the register I do not know and do not want to speculate about them, should be set up by those who were against the publication of the register but when they began to talk about the possibilities and possible motives, I would only flaunt one such honorable, dignified and pure story such as the Register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. I will only say this at the end, when the register is published, when it has been done publicly and when it has brought only positive effects, let all those who have been tailoring defence policies over the past 20 years ask themselves how open and respectful they are to the defenders, but also to the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26932	Thank you, Minister. And the obvious of a respected representative? There isn't. Now first one notice. The president of the EU Regional Development Committee, the respected vice-president of Dom Dragica Zgrebec, asks the Committee members to meet at the 11th session at 2.30 p.m. today at the Ivan Mažuranic Hall until the end of the work. And now I'm setting a break for 15 minutes. Meet me at the gym in 15 minutes. Thank you very much. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. We continue with the work of the current morning in the Croatian Parliament. MP number 21 and respected representative Đurđica Plancic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26934	Thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, members and members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I will ask my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and EU funds to Mr Branko Greece. The government recently set up a working group for EU funds at the beginning of the year as one of three working groups to boost investment and increase the absorption of eu funds. Local self-government units face numerous difficulties and restrictions in efforts to run for not European funds. I particularly stress the lack of professional people to consult and make applications. In this business of my experience, they're not helped by county development agencies. Here I specifically think of RERU Development Agency Split-Dalmatia County of which we as local self-government units have no use for now. My question is whether and how will the newly established task force help local self-government units run for larger infrastructure projects and how will new employees in your ministry participate in the process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26935	Answering the parliamentary question, Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26936	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, the issue of EU funds becomes a question I will not say all questions but an extremely important issue for the period ahead. In this context, it is particularly important that I be told the people on the ground, and that means all our units of local self-government quality preparation for this story. What the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds have recognised since the very beginning of its operation, I would say with new powers and responsibilities, so last year since the beginning of practically 2012, is a orientation towards local self-government. We also booked a special fund within the budget co-financed the preparation and implementation of projects co-financed by EU funds for the needs of local self-government units. I will only provide you with a few information that is indicative of what we did in 2012 and what we intend to do in 2013. So somewhere around 30 million kunas are in that fund, and this year, as many as 45 million kunas are in this budget. We've got a few programs out of it. The first is the preparation of regional projects. We have set out to prepare 32 projects worth over 500m euros. So we co-finance the preparation of these projects. It then prepares local projects that have just been run and identified through county agencies at the county level, where 64 projects intended for 14 million kuna have been identified, thus already deployed to finance the project documentation. Then co-financing of the implementation where we intervened in three or four cases last year at a level of about 5 million kuna. Then strengthening human potential. In 16 Croatian cities, we have completed training to prepare for the use of EU funds, covering some 2,000 total users of this education, and in the City of Zagreb in the initial phase we have educated another 2000. So over 4,000 people went through education to use funds. There is also, there are still grants for business infrastructure that is implemented under IPARD III C component where local self-government units are directly running projects and using these funds, but I must stress that only ten counties that have been least developed since 01 so far are included. The 07th component will cover all 20 counties and the city of Zagreb, which means it will be able to run projects for local business infrastructure. A total of about 200 million kunas for the implementation of these projects have been reserved for now, and we are now perhaps somewhere at 60% of the absorption of total money. And there is something that is inevitable to mention and that is that, apart from the Ministry of Regional Development, a whole series of other institutions participates in the preparation of projects on the premises of local self-government units from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Agriculture and, above all, public enterprises such as Croatian Waters, which are hardly a county unit of local self-government and that they are not present with their projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26937	Thank you, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, and for showing the respectable representative, Đurjice Plancic. Thank you very much. The next 22 questions and respected representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26938	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to Minister of Tourism Mr. Veljak Ostojić. Lately, I think for many years we have witnessed today's entrepreneurs, our masters, objecting to high taxes and contributing to the fact that this is the reason for the incompetence of Croatian products and Croatian economies as well as tourism. We have testified that our hotelers, the caterers I will say with the right to comment that VAT on the prices of accommodation, food and drink should be reduced, the accommodation was reduced a few years ago, and by 1.1 this year the VAT was reduced to food and drink services in order to, this is the contribution of this government to our tourism sector, in order for our hotelers to be competitive with this basis from the tax base their price is more than it is in the environment. Of course these days, these weeks we are constantly under media pressuring about fiscalization and it is simply forgotten that at the same time with the introduction of fiscalization and reducing VAT to drink and food. My question is, Mr. Minister, whether and how the VAT reduction has been reflected, whether there has been a reduction in the price of services, the provision of services with drinks and food in the hotel and catering, or whether they intend to do so, what are the expectations of the Ministry of Tourism, whether it will come down or whether the part that should have ended up in the budget will remain in the companies in their cumulation or remain for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26939	Thank you too, counselor, for your question. The respected Minister Veljko Ostojic will answer your question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26940	Thank you very much, ma'am, and gentlemen of the Parliament. The issue of competitiveness is a key issue and a key challenge for Croatian tourism. It is true, we have reduced the VAT rate to services, catering services to food and drink other than hot alcohol to 10%. Some other countries have recently done so before us as such. France, Germany or Sweden and in all three countries, the same effects took place. First, there was a reduction in the overall levels of prices of catering services, the second being higher investments and the third as a consequence of all this and higher employment. There is no reason why all the three effects should not happen in Croatia. I believe that you know that Croatian tourism, or the industry of travel on the international competition scale, is 34 places in the world, in Europe on 24 places and among the 9 observed Mediterranean countries in 8 places. Our goal by the end of this term is to move Croatia positively on these scales for at least ten places as far as world level is concerned. I mentioned prices, I mentioned investments and employment. In recognition of the importance and long-term nature of this measure, private investors announced investment in the tourism sector almost twice as much as it was in the previous year. So this year we expect investments between two and three billion kunas and this is a clear indication that what the tourism sector has been seeking for 14 years has been persistent and that it has now received the result of one of these three indicators, i.e. the effect of investments. As for the specific price reductions, you know that prices are of course formed freely, but there are also indicators and some concrete decisions starting with the association of small family hotels that recently made a decision to lower domestic wine prices and domestic mineral waters by 5.10%. I have an announcement from one of the biggest hotel companies in Croatia that the following days will announce a price reduction for almost 50 different products just showing that it does not want what you're talking about to happen, that all effects or most of the effects of lower VAT rates remain in accumulation. And the final decrease in VAT is a long-term measure, the reduction in prices is not a priority, investment is a priority, new employment is a priority. I am sure that in the medium and long term this effect will just result in greater investment in the sector, greater attractiveness of the sector and, of course, greater employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26941	Thank you very much, Minister. Next issue of 23rd and Honorable Representative Zeljko Sabo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26942	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the president of the Croatian government, ministers and ministers. I refer my question to Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic, minister of education in the town of Vukovar. There are two schools in the town of Vukovar, one Nikola Andric elementary school and Nikola Tesla High School, which has not yet been restored since the Homeland War. Dear Mr. Minister, we saw several days ago and several times through media and television the situation in the technical school in the town of Vukovar, inappropriate conditions and education of children who last too long in such conditions. The Vukovar-Srijem County has offered to rebuild a school, an education space that is inadequate. Parents organized themselves and were rightly concerned about their children’s health and decided unanimously at their Council of Parents’ meeting not to allow children to continue school under such conditions. My question is, will you also make it possible to normalize children's schooling? How can you help their education take place in one quality condition and during this school year’s program end school year on time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26943	The answer to your parliamentary question will be given by respected Minister Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26944	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Sabo, Mayor Vukovar, it is clear to me that your concern is that in your term you have indeed made a number of moves for Vukovar to be a town of knowledge. Nikola Tesla's school is one not only but most drastic example of yet another specificity of the Croatian economic-economic model, which represents a complete negation of public procurement and the purpose of public procurement because it has proved to us that the cheapest offer generally becomes the most expensive offer, and sometimes impossible mission as is the case with this school. The Calvary of Students of the Technical School Nikola Tesla began in 2010 when a public procurement process was published for estimated 15 million kunas, and the job was obtained by Kera-kamex company with a numbered price of 7 million kuna works. So the estimated value of 15 million kuna works, the numbered value of 7 million kuna and the term of completion of the school for 12 months. After those 12 months, the school was not completed, the company went bankrupt, a number of subcontractors failed because it was believed that through extracurricular works and costs would be priced and thus double-crossed by the investor, which was the Ministry of Regional Development. Afterwards, a new tender was opened that ended in May 2011, the company was awarded a Construction Project and committed that school work would be completed by the start of the school year 2011-2012. However, this company has actually underestimated the works, shown unreal cost, fell into difficulty, did not pay for co-operatives and the works were suspended in October 2011. After that, additional efforts were tried to see what to do. It is estimated that there is no point in opening a new tender, as this would take a long time to strengthen the efforts of the Ministry of Regional Development, the contractor committed himself to completing the school by 15 January 2013. Unfortunately, together we visited the construction site of the 15th of January school on the day when the anniversary of the peaceful reintegration of Vukovar was solemnly celebrated and we saw that the school was not completed. So parents rightly launched a boycott because they did not want their children to attend a school in a working home in which the conditions were absolutely inappropriate for school in the 19th and let alone in the 21st century. For this reason, together with Deputy Prime Minister of Regional Development, Greece, we convened an emergency meeting of 18 January in Vukovar, a meeting with representatives of the city, county, school, contractors and monitors and asked for a dynamic plan of construction with the number of workers, expenses and deadlines when the school will be completed by 21 January. At the same time, we were trying to find suitable accommodation for the students of the technical school and we were invited by the Dean of the University of Vukovar Dr. Gordana Bužić and the president of the Administrative Council of the University of Vukovar Siniši Kukić who offered the premises of the Velečišče in Vukovar that in the next month the students of the technical school can attend school in an appropriate way and train everything necessary to bring the school year to an end. On January 21st, we held a meeting with the performer who informed us that, with the dynamics of work, if respected, the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Science, Education, Sports will insist on a daily report on the continuation of the work so that the school could be completed by 15 February. Yesterday I was in Vukovar for a parenting meeting with 400 parents, and I suggested that children attend the next month's classes at the University of Vukovar and the parents were delighted to accept this proposal, which solved the problem of students of Nikola Tesla Technical School and symbolically joined Tesla and Ružičko future Velučište in Vukovar with the name Lavoslav Ružička. [[Intruder: Minister's time.]] And what is also very important in the end to say that with a million kuna in the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, we have ensured that the works are launched and that the reconstruction of Nikola Andrić School.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26945	Thank you very much. Appropriations of Representative Zeljko Sabo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26946	I thank the ministers for their response and for their efforts both to you and to Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic, because if there was no effort from the Ministry of Regional Development, competitions would probably still be called and who knows when the school would be restored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26947	Thank you, Your Honor. 24th parliamentary issue and respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26948	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers. My question was addressed to Mr. Kotromanovic's defence minister. We learn from the media that as part of the austerity measures, you have decided to reduce the number of military chaplains and assistants who serve Masses, hold spiritual exercises and generally care for their spiritual health. After Minister Jovanovic and Matic, you and Minister Kotromanovic became part of a carefully planned and systematic minorization of the importance of the Catholic church in the Croatian people and Croatian military. Please answer me how much your Ministry will save precisely by this decision, how many chaplains and assistants will be fired.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26949	The answer to your question, Honorable Minister Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26950	Dear fellow, thank you for asking the question, and thank you very much for asking that question. You saw in the paper the other day a great text appeared about how we had bad relations with our bishop and with our complete structure and how they would sue me with the Vatican for something that doesn't literally exist, which is not true and that was, of course, the day the main theme of these newspapers. Tomorrow in the other paper is the bishop himself and the chief Vicar have denied everything that the newspaper has written, and that means we have to change the rulebook because the rulebook is from '97. For years, we agreed to that together. We've been talking to our bishop for several months now, we've got an operational meeting every month, we're talking and we're watching how best to deal with it. He's a '97 rule, and he's talking about associations, choirs, Corpses, and we need to change that. We don't question a contract with the Holy Table at all and that's our obligation. Let's just say you asked me about military chaplains. In the southern brigade in Knin, we have two chaplains, it's unnecessary, we agreed, there's one enough, and Chaplain Bozo himself down there if he listens, my friend who's been a chaplain in the 4th Guard Brigade is for us to have one chaplain because he's enough one. We're not gonna fire anyone. We had a few priests in Karlovac who had a deal on the work. So we'll cut everything by three chaplains in agreement with the Vicar, Vicar Mamic and Bishop Jezerinz. I mean, as far as we're concerned, there's no problem with them. That's my answer, I can talk later and details, I can say anything, we can save this question but we have no problem, we're satisfied with the cooperation. On the contrary, we have good experience, we fully support it and we think it is a good thing for the Croatian Army, for the Armed Forces and for the Ministry of Defence and I say and we do not question the contract with the Holy Table at all. We had a conversation with the apostolic nuncia at the Department of Defense about 20 days ago where we agreed on such things step by step, means no breaking, no rushing. I'm sorry that there's one way that I'm being stegmatized right now is that I'm something against the Catholic Church. On the contrary, I am a Catholic, a practical believer, going to church and I think that's what the Croatian Army needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26951	Thank you, Minister. And the obvious of the respected representative, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26952	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, Mr. Secretary can't be pleased with your answer, you haven't told me how long it's gonna be when it comes down to three chaplains, how many people are going to get fired from those 57 current employees of the Department of Defense. It is already clear to all of us that, as a secret communist relapse, old hatred for religion, church, and its attitudes have erupted. Gentlemen of the government, just laugh, it is clear to every Croatian man how you ignore the fact that 87% of Catholic believers live in Croatia today. We are well-known for the old left-wing exclusion.../The speaker excluded./... Yes, that's what the Croatian public said, clearly and loudly, that 87% of Catholic believers in Croatia and that we clearly see where your mind is driving, where.../The speaker is excluded.... Why am I being disfellowshipped, Mr. President? Warn those who disfellowship me. [[Intruder President: Get involved.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26953	I'm warning you. Whoever shuts you down doesn't shut you down.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26954	The current media controversy over sexual education has prompted true Christian phobia and hate statements against the Catholic Church. It is also likely that the bombing in the lobby... seminary and... high school in Split is linked to such statements and decisions. We can rightly ask ourselves what is next and whether persecution is in order, the closure of priests, monks, bishops. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26955	Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26956	Just like it was after '45. Let's say. Who needs growing divisions in Croatian society, who is disturbed by different opinions and freedom of expression? I wonder if Stepinac's coming after the lake. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26957	Please, please. For the time being, I am still holding a session of the Croatian Parliament and I am asking all my colleagues who disagree and have the right to disagree, but they must not interfere with the speaker in his position, and that is why in the Assembly and different people are located to speak their views, but not to be disturbed. Thank you very much. Let's go to the next question. It is a 25-seat and respected representative Tomislav Žagar. Here you go. A little tolerance amongst yourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26958	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina. Dear Ministers, Croatian farmers are waiting for the announced payment of incentives as promised. When incentives can be expected and what will be with over 6000 users of incentives that did not get incentives because they are taxpayers. The question is specifically whether there is a way to pay them off too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26959	Thank you very much. Minister Tihomir Jakovina will answer the question. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26960	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Sagar, just a brief recapitulation. In 2012 for the 2011 production year, the Ministry of Agriculture paid for its support in agriculture, fostering agriculture and a horizontal measure of 2 billion 572 million kuna. If we also add funds for rural development and debts from previous periods since 2008, the ninth, the tenth, we paid to Croatian farmers 3 billion and 10 million kuna for 2013, and for the payment of support for the production year, we have planned in the budget 2 billion 625 million. The total number of applicants for the payment of incentives in 2012 was almost 110000 users. Of these, 6091 users had a tax debt that was greater than what they needed to be paid for than what they needed to be paid on the basis of the support. With the Ministry of Finance, we found and harmonised the model of overcoming the closure of their commitments with the stonning, that is, taking down part of the interest of 30.6.2012 when it was time to pay off the support. In this way, users will also be closed, and end-users will be informed about it. As regards the 2012 production support, according to the announcement and in this way, we also confirm the seriousness of the ministry's work, but also the Government's payment of production support in 2012 starts in January this year with the aim of further increasing the competitiveness of our agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26961	Thank you, too. The obvious? Nothing. Thank you very much. We are going to the next twenty-sixth parliamentary issue and the esteemed representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26962	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Ministers and Prime Minister. I will ask my question to the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic. Over the past year, the government of the Kukuriku coalition has marked a number of negative indicators, and I have not been able to find a positive one. You have achieved the worst results in the employment and employment policy that 370,000 people are unemployed at the Employment Office. Only during the current hour during today's five hundred new people at the Employment Office. When the same number is taken away from the 315000 inherited from the beginning of your December 2011 mandate, it is obtained as a result of your policy of 55,000 newly unemployed at the Employment Service or a picturesquely expressed whole city the size of Karlovac. An entire city the size of a Carlovec. During the celebration of 1. May last year at... You made a statement, Mr. President. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only a man who works, who brings home every day the bread feels self-respect, and it is our job to make it possible for every citizen to do so. Where something doesn't stop, where dust comes up, a new job will pop up. Comparing this with the current state of 55,000 people of Croatian citizens, an entire city of your coalition has left without only respect, without being able to bring bread to its home every day. And where the dust from the workplaces came from, the dust remained. Nothing new has come up. My question to you, Mr. President, do you have anyone brave, smart and above all capable in the government or more who might stop a counter that lists the unemployed at the Employment Service? Can the unemployed even hope for something or their fate is the Employment Service? You have skirt and scissors. You can set a new direction, say decisions, specific decisions you can make. Tell that to them from this house today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26963	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, the respected Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26964	The answer to your question that otherwise represents one visible civilization step in relation to the previous question from your club is yes, of course. We do. You asked if we had people. We have, that's the answer. Yes, of course. Are you satisfied with the answer? You probably didn't. You haven't heard from me that I'm calling for trends that were worrying in 2011, the growth of the unemployed was constant. That's right. No one put that in front of you, no one attacked you for it. We simply took the job of introducing order into state finances, fiscal consolidation and adaptation of state and economy to a serious match that awaits us when we join the EU. It won't be easy. So we're going to have to be in competition with the strongest very good. Contest on European projects, ensure that our companies get the most intellectually demanding jobs, which are of course the most profitable, that they are the main contradictions, not the subcontractors. And on the river track mentioned by fellow Milosevic, who is otherwise not low-level, but valley. The railway line is from Zagreb to the beginning of the Gorski Kotar, and we are still talking about the valleys and mountains. The 60km valley track will wait for some time when Rijeka Port is at the level of Copra and Trieste. But it has nothing to do with your question. I answered your question that, of course, I believe in my associates. I believe not only in their good intentions, because it is not enough, but also in their knowledge, experience, energy, education. And I think this government has simply achieved one incendiary mass, a non-critical mass, but one optimum of all these qualities. Whether or not that will be translated into economic growth of at least over 1%. I believe he will, I believe he will this year. In the countries around us, the situation is even worse, and Croatia is on some European average here somewhere. I wish she was better. However, without introducing order with respect for human rights it will not work and it is a policy that I will implement together with my associates both in this year and in the next and I do not ask for an excuse and I said that Croatian mentality which has often been prone to seek excuses and culprits for its own problems where we ourselves have a problem to change, and it does not go overnight and we do this, there are conflicts, there are oppositions, you are critical, some of your orders are amazing in the accusations we hear. I will continue to advocate freedom of speech even though some of the things we've heard here are slowly coming out of this space. It has nothing to do with civilization, of course it has nothing to do with the truth. This is where we heard the accusations that we're planning religious persecution of people's liquidation, so what is it? You really think that in such a way you can motivate some heart and mind in Croatia, go ahead, go ahead. Of course, that's going to be a good response for a few people, but with a normal majority, it's going to cause an aggravation and, realistically, it's for us and for me, a political gain. But I don't want that kind of Judas scum because it's dirty money in a political sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26965	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the esteemed representative, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26966	Thank you very much, President. Well, I'm not pleased Mr. President of the Croatian Government with your response because I expected concrete answers and some new direction in your place. If I were you, and you're the tenth diameter of the Republic of Croatia, it's an honor, it's a responsibility, I would announce a change in the direction of this policy. Mr. President, this is no longer even the neoliberal capitalism that is often spoken of here, this has become a kind of cannibalism. Yes, yes, cannibalism that eats and the healthiest economic operators in the Republic of Croatia, and for a million and a half people living on the edge of poverty, that cannibalism means that they could end up in bankruptcy and personal indifference. I expected you to announce measures to cut taxes, to give up this aggressive relationship with Croatian entrepreneurs, they create jobs. I expected you to say the simplest solutions, that you would replace the people who created this army of unemployed, bring a new and the simplest solution, I expected that you would simply make a decision to turn off that dial because it daily creates an atmosphere of hopelessness, depression, imperceptibility and misery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26967	And to you. And the next 27th parliamentary question and respected representative Zlatko Komadin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26968	Thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. My question was to refer Mr. Vrdoljak, Minister of Economy, but since he is not there, I suppose I will get an answer from Ms. Tamara Obradović Mazal. He's tied to Dino Petrokemia. Namely Dina is one of the most complex and complex petrochemical plants in Croatia extremely technologically complex, extremely expensive plant, demanding plant and the product is clean export. My question is, it's especially because it's an extremely dangerous facility for people and the environment if it's out of control, and people are holding that surveillance practically without pay all this time. When will production continue and workers will be paid back? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26969	Answer your question, Deputy Minister of Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26970	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative, Mr. Komadina, I thank you for this question because it in some way gives the opportunity to create a retrospective of what the government has done and those preconditions that the government has provided for the investor to talk about Turkey's Caliscan, indeed go through the power line and run that production. The answer to this question really depends only on a private investor at the moment after all the prerequisites have been made. Why am I saying that? Since last summer, when the government has provided a private investor with a guarantee as one of the basic preconditions for further talks on the launch of production in Dina and the entry into ownership relations since then, what the Government has taken over is also in communication with the private investor to ensure the amount of electricity that the competent ministry has indeed done along with HEP. At present, efforts are also being made to enable the investor, i.e. Dina, as a facility a more favourable gas that is necessary to start or maintain production at a satisfactory level. Also known is the intention and it is one of the strategic projects related to the land that is located in that location which is determined for the future... The terminal and the clearly known intention and intention of HEP, which also provided for this need, also the judicial assessors for the land to take over this land and, of course, on the management of the society, is to provide for the distribution of that money and that is what was primarily the support of HEP and the Government themselves to ensure primary labour claims and back-up salaries. [[The speaker doesn't understand...]] However, just speaking of the backlogs and claims towards workers, I must remind that a new investor has therefore formed his own administration. The administration has given workers a warrant to prepare for production in Dina, which they have done. We received representatives of workers just a week ago who expressed their dissatisfaction with the way their work in Dina currently takes place to prepare precisely this production. It's about running errands for which they have to be paid for. We are now, unfortunately, also talking about the obligation of the current administration formed by the new investor not to pay attention to workers for current jobs, to prepare production in order to get there right now. And as you know, time-related and related to our guarantee, the start of production is time-consuming and back-to-back. At the end of this month, we will actually have a clear intention, a clear picture, a vision of a private investor that we have provided for the above conditions from electricity to the talks we are having at this point with existing creditors just to enable the Turkish investor to continue or maintain production. At this point, it can be said in a colloquy that the ball in the field is a Turkish investor because by the end of this month, with all these pre-conditions that the government and the resolution ministry have taken over along with the Ministry of Finance, it simply has to go through the drive wire and push the button. The government, in place of him, has provided for the preconditions that button can't physically do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26971	Thank you. It was a response from Deputy Minister of Honor Tamara Obradović Mazal, and an indication of the respected representative Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26972	I just want to point out that it's a facility that can't and can't be left unsupervised, without a minimum of raw materials and a minimum of energy and energy. But it's an extremely expensive facility and a clean export that can't be left without the active role of the ministry, so I believe the government will do everything possible to make this production finally come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26973	Thank you, Your Honor. The 28th parliamentary issue and the esteemed representative Ilija Filipovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26974	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, respected members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Croatian Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic. With this question, I exclude any receipt of any influence on the programming or editorial independence of our public broadcaster but the democratic public of the Republic of Croatia, Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, I am convinced that I am eager to hear what measures the Government of the Republic of Croatia will take to at least ease the anger of the entire emigrated Croatia because of the act of abolishing the "Figure of Croatia" and for which we have witnessed the public lynchion and degradation of journalist Vidović-Kristo but without convincing arguments. And to you, Prime Minister, it is not unknown that the government of the Republic of Croatia is paying for the production of the programme channel "The image of Croatia" and its broadcast for Croatians throughout Croatia. However, in the area of America, Australia and New Zealand, the channel has been encrypted, and the contract with the HRT for the maintenance of this programme channel has expired. Isn't that unfair to the Croatian diaspora? How can you explain to the Croatian public the discipline of public words as well as a certain number of journalists and editors on public HRT because no one can believe that censors and shifts within HRT happen without the influence of the authorities? Finally, I convey to you the concern of the Secretary-General of the Croatian World Congress Mr. Stjepan Asic, who is asked: "Is the abolition of the "Figure of Croatia" programme in the spirit of so prominent strategy for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Croatian Relations towards Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and the recently established Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. I think this question should be raised in the Parliament." Here I have just done so, and I expect a reasonable answer to this complex and very serious question that I have raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26975	Thank you very much. Answering your question, Croatian Prime Minister respected Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26976	Dear colleague, I'm glad you've fenced yourself so subtlely from your own question. That's good because as you're building on it, I'm also building on the responsibility of influence on HRT's editorial policy. I don't know. I know as a viewer. Otherwise, I have not read what I hear so far in any written or written means of communication that we would be pressured and influenced by editorial policy and human rights policy specifically in the Information Programme because everything you are interested in the Information Programme because we are not. The treatment of Croatian television for you and us is equal to that for me. Sometimes not the most professional. Let's just say as a viewer, it worries that someone after a few years of internships can become the leaders of the most demanding editorial form and then return to the border crossing, so to the left, to the right. That's not on BBC or CNN. So the status is built for years and when it is acquired then it takes some time if there is no big mistake. In that sense, clean as an observer without mentioning the name I am, in a manager's sense, I don't get it. But it's my observation and I have nothing to do with it and I won't have anything to do with it. As far as the diaspora show is concerned, what I know but from the media, because I can't hear myself or talk to the director of television. I had one single meeting with him when he was elected, never before or after that I never will. We can talk about finance eventually, but the program, the information program, we won't talk about it. I keep my attitude to myself. I told you a part of my attitude, and as a viewer who didn't follow that show, I may have seen it once or twice, I realized that if there was a reason for a press suspension, then it was decided by whoever was in charge. It's not the first suspension it's not even the last suspension. What seems to me to be found first is that this is not a subject of direct importance for the diaspora, that is my opinion, but that does not mean that you can suspend the journalist on this basis, not me. What also seems to me further is that there is a documentary of copyright-free rights, which is a serious professional offense. It was about the best movie or the average third-rate pamphlet in America, which is hundreds and where it questions the credibility of a clinic that belongs to the top of the American academic community. But you have such documentaries in America, but you can't show it on HTV unless you have copyrights that weren't there. I'm talking about form here, so if I were a manager, I'd reconsider the responsibility of the person who did it that way. I'm not getting into the contents, so neither the first nor the last suspension. I didn't do anything, and I'm not going to do any editorial policy on HTV. There are other televisions in Broadcasting, therefore, in broadcasts in frequencies. They are trying and competing with HTV in the fight for viewer favor. I'd be happy if it were a more quality program, I'd be happy if it were more professional because it's a demanding and difficult job. I'm saying I'm surprised that careers get up so fast and they're going down so fast, it's not healthy, it's talking about the system, but that's how it is, I repeat it once more boring, I don't have any influence, and they don't have any of my associates because I would know about it and I would intervene.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26977	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the esteemed representative of Ilija Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26978	I have to be obvious, so I expected a more concrete answer. Your answer will also be judged by media officers at HRT because they do not like tutoring or mentoring or political commissioners. If it wasn't you, someone else is, and I believe that our diaspora will be manifested, because in the extreme line and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we are all here a picture of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26979	Thank you very much. Next 29 parliamentary issues and respected representative Natalija Martincevic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26980	President-in-Office of the Parliament, Prime Minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will ask my question to Minister Maras, which refers to the business of the Varazdin free zone after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. Namely, after numerous attempts by free zone companies, as well as several meetings held in your Ministry, we still do not have, unfortunately, the exact status of the free zone defined after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. This is certainly the concern of all 15 free zones in Croatia, and here I am particularly talking about the free zone of Varazdin that employs 3200 people, in which 17 companies, which has more than 2.5 billion kunas of annual income and has such a share in exporting that the Varazdin County puts second and third place depending on the year in the Republic of Croatia. And therefore, the issue of exceptional importance, 1.7, is close and companies must certainly have knowledge of what their status will be so that they can prepare themselves in time and quality for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26981	Thank you, too. And the answer to the parliamentary question, Honored Minister Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26982	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam representative, thank you for this question. Your question is aimed at making Croatia enter the common market of the European Union and that at this point in Croatia we are practically with 13 free zones in which more than 200 entrepreneurs and 7,000 employees operate and where more than 4 billion kunas of income are realized and that the Croatian Government must normally make sure that some market conditions change. We are entering the European Union and 68% of Croatia's trade in goods is taking place with the Member States of the European Union and all of which, of course, the companies that work in the free zones have had a lot of exports to those Member States, and there will be some tax, I would say, customs incentives or a better position that they had in the past period, but on the other hand, many chances will be opened that they did not have until yesterday. For example, by entering Croatia into the European Union 42% of Croatian companies will have direct financial benefits. I will only list here one information relating to the Republic of Slovenia, it is quite relevant these days to discuss relations with the Republic of Slovenia but this is one information that is very helpful for the Croatian economy. Only from the costs of the expeditions and customs that we have placed in the Republic of Slovenia will we have 160m euros less costs in the year when we enter the European Union. So our companies will be only an opportunity to export to Slovenia 160m euros more competitive, not to mention then countries such as Italy, Germany, Austria and which will be benefits for these companies operating in this area that you mentioned earlier, which is certainly the largest free zone in Croatia, that is 3,500 almost employees, that is over 2 billion kunas of income and 90% of exports and that we normally take care of it and that we will soon propose amendments to the Free Zone Act that I would say the most that we can do in the EU legislation. What is important is to say, it is important to say that there are 74 zones in the European Union, so it is a little illogical that in Croatia they will be 13, otherwise we would probably be a free zone recorder across the European Union. Normally, one part of the free zones will fall and will no longer have the function they had before, but by opening up markets such as Russia, China and other large markets, it is likely that these large zones will also play a very important role in the future. A general message to Croatian entrepreneurs since entering and operating in free zones will have much greater benefits than what could possibly be lost by entering the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26983	Thank you, Minister. And the obvious of the respected representative Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26984	Here's my best thanks for the answer. We are certainly aware that Croatia's entry into the European Union will bring a lot of positive changes to our entrepreneurs and that you mentioned that there are free zones within the European Union that have maintained certain benefits that free zones have. I think that this is the way to think and act in this sense, to try to fight at least for those main and leading areas within Croatia, to keep that status so that they can continue to operate in this form and achieve benefits, since in the free zone, over 130m euros of entrepreneurs and investors who certainly expect that some of the rights and privileges they had in the free zones can continue to be used after Croatia's entry into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26985	Thank you, too. 30 parliamentary issues in today's morning and respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26986	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Prime Minister with members. My question was intended for Minister Vrdoljak, since he was not there, then I refer to Deputy Tamari Obradovic-Mazal. The Kutina Petrochemy is a company of special national interest. The State Office for State Property Management has proposed a decision to the government, which is said to be cut by a representative of the office by the number of companies of state interest. One of the cut-off companies is Petrochemy Kutina. You are aware that the initiation of the privatisation process would be a violation of the Law on State Property Management, since the law provides for the adoption of a State Property Management Strategy adopted by this Parliament on a proposal from the Government. If you go along with this, you take yourself as the Government for the right to be above the law applicable in this country, and, by the way, by privatising Petrochemy, you create assumptions for a scenario to suspend production in Petrochemia and to actually become a package of products imported from other countries, for example, Russia. Then you question the prices of artificial fertilisers on the Croatian market, which will be a direct blow to both the country and the peasants, will increase safely and the number of unemployed by making Petrochemy a significant number of current employees redundant, and that money that you can possibly make from sales can only be used once. Will the Sisak script be repeated and the sales of the Sisak Ironworks carried to the United States and Mexico and there on these same plants continued production which now turns out to be worth it to us. A move to praise government members in good time, among other things, the prime minister on abolishing The anti-dumping duties have proved to be pointless since the tube production technology has been exported. [[/The Intruder President: Time Honored Representative. Ask a question.]] And then my question is about Petrochemy. Why do you plan to sell Petrochemy by breaking the law that I have stated and in what way do you intend to force the buyer to continue production or to make a package of other people's products from Petrochemy?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26987	Thank you very much. The answer to your question is Deputy Minister, respected Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26988	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Novak, thank you for your question, but at the beginning I must say that you will be dissatisfied with my answer since it is a question that has been asked quite hypothetically about the future. I think you mentioned the role of the buyer that I am personally not aware of at this point whose identity is actually here. We're not having a conversation about selling Petrochemy. I don't think we're even familiar with a potential buyer. At this point on the table of privatisation whether partial, whether or not the whole thing about Petrochemy is not a topic on our tables. What I can talk about since you mentioned the price of energy, but also the price of artificial fertilisers, I can tell you what happened, what was made and realized. It is very difficult to give a speculative pro futuro response and therefore I mention you with my answer will not be satisfied since the subject of privatisation is not on our tables. If once she is not led by a secret procedure, she will be, if she happens, when it happens, she will be public, she will be transparent, she will certainly be done in a way that the revenue side is done but not today. And on today your question is very difficult to answer. Let me say a few words about what really happened. For example, one positive thing for Petrochemy, but also for users of Petrochemy products. You mentioned the price of artificial fuels. The price will definitely be influenced by a contract that Petrochemy has concluded with a new gas supplier where by 20% for 130 million cubic metres, it knocks down the price at a thousand metres of cubic gas itself. You will agree with me that the reduced energy price, which is at the very end of the price output, for example artificial fertilisers, has a significant effect. Let me just point out the difference. 2 kunas and 89 limes per metre cubic, and for these downed 20% it's 2 kunas 29 kuna per cubic metre. I believe it's a good story for Petrochemy, and I believe it's a good effect on the final product of Petrochemy, which you yourself mentioned as the price of artificial fertiliser. Also, allow me, given your question, one small segment of the very conversations we had with a union present in Petrokemia. Namely, after a series of conducted and consulted and talks very open, very constructive. Let me say that thanks to statements and very clear positions of the Government through the office, through my ministry that I quote that there is no direct danger at this time of further privatization of Petrochemy we are suspending our activities until further notice, we are pleased with your reaction and particularly with your public statements on the further privatisation of Petrochemy. We thank you for the opportunities you have given us to directly and sincerely exchange thoughts about the future of Petrochemy signed the Defence Department of Petrochemy. So, with another excuse that pro futuro hypothetically cannot answer the question. I thank you for your question, and I hope you're at least satisfied with the contents of what's de facto in the meantime and done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26989	Thank you very much. It's an indication of the respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26990	Thank you very much. So if the State Office for State Property Management publishes something as its own information, as my proposal for a decision to the Government, then I can't believe that it's such a pain between the government and the state office. But okay, but if you say it's like that then let's just say it is. The question was not what you would agree with a particular buyer about continuing production, because the fact is that in Željezara Sisak, something was agreed on, so production has nothing. I'm just asking you what mechanism you can use to make a future buyer commit to continue production and retaining jobs, but I'd still like to ask you for a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26991	Thank you very much. Next, 31st parliamentary issue and respected representative Tomislav Ivic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26992	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister. I refer my question to the Croatian Defence Minister, Mr Matic. Before and during the debate on the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, I warned you, and now I ask you what you have done or what you will do when it comes to the Croatian defender Predrag Matic Fred, who notes in the book nothing false and writes that the Croatian military entered the Croatian military on September 3, 1991 and in the unique register of Croatian defenders, it is said that Mr Fred Matic has been in the Croatian Army since 15. Six. In 1991, so two-and-a-half months are being conducted in the register and during that time Mr. Matic was not a member of the Croatian Army, but he was on a holiday in Crikvenica and is it okay, Mr. Minister, that someone who took the summer while Croatian defenders were at war had the right to score points in the Croatian defence fund and would you ask first to correct this inaccuracy in the register itself and secondly will you ask that defender Fred Matic return the points he received for the stakes in the fund that he obviously does not belong to.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26993	Thank you very much. Answer to your parliamentary question, Honored Defence Minister Fred Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26994	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished MPs and MPs. I am always impressed by the questions asked by Mr Tomislav Ivić because afterwards I am following the popularity of ministers in the Croatian government and I thank him for her every question and we will also see the answer after this question. So, what's at the beginning of you is problematic that we should ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Milanovic, because obviously you should have appointed someone as the Minister of the Type Ramba, the type of Prince of Domagoj or anything. But he seems to have opted for an option some of them were before him, it's good. Fred's a nice mother for some. So, Mr. Ivić thank you for, unfortunately, I don't know if you brought my book to advertise me again on your matter. So, look at the book, you didn't read it well, follow two, so you didn't read it well, read it again, please. So, I'm probably after I fought for this country and what I spent nine months in a camp probably not as healthy as some sitting here among you. But I don't believe I'm that much of a fool and so much crazy to insist that my first check is that mine check everything, check all my days, if you've been and unfortunately haven't been on the publication register, the first published register, the first name that's been published, and I'm very proud of that my name, my smallness. Secondly, look, I read some of your newspapers there, they say your newspaper, the Croatian newspaper that publishes some things about me, and I looked into some comments on the Internet, and I saw a smart one. He says, "well, who is this Matic? It ends with one Sanader, it cares about some other beasts at the end, who is this Matic that he can't handle?" Look, I'm not even a member of a party to maybe have a party protect me, so you can put an end to me. I hope you don't end up like you did Igor Rajenović, Dusan Miljuš or the wife of the Mayor of Saba, I hope you won't, I hope you won't. But here's the person who became famous asking me all kinds of questions. Please, you don't hear well, you'll hear. So, here's another time, they asked me to say now that you're a minister, they're asking you a lot of questions. They asked me anyway what was the best toilet paper in the Republic of Croatia. I told Paloma, Aunt Violet and the Croatian List by cheating on them because of the Croatian Lists, believe me, the rehearsal itself, the other black fingers, that I'm not talking about the other part of the body that you can't see, it remains even more black. Mr. Ivić, feel free to check here publicly for a million times I can also tell you, Mr. Ivić, that I have heard of you being admitted into the Croatian Army and that you have more days than General Glavas who took you into the Croatian Army. However, as it is known here and popular for all those who were in the former communist alliance and then went to other parties then said they were undermining the system from within, and so did you who taught defence and protection while you were being led to be in the Croatian Army, you were probably preparing a young Croatian army for the upcoming work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26995	I'm asking you nicely to do one thing again. Neither the question nor the answers make sense if they are addressed only to the minister or to the representative. So it's very important to allow people to speak and voters to hear the first thing. And you have the right to be insolent both later and later. Secondly, I think that really the comparison that the minister used is inappropriate for the Croatian Parliament regardless of the question that was personally noted, we need to be able to force and hear the questions that concern us personally. And now, please, I'd like to see the testimony of MP Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26996	Of course I'm not happy with your answer, Mr. Matić, because there was no answer. I asked you about the facts that you persistently avoid answering, and apparently you're acting exactly like you're not hearing, but I'm going to answer you, because either the question you didn't hear or didn't understand it, but the answer you gave was zero. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26997	Thank you, too. Once again, please all colleagues and colleagues ask for a written reply. That's okay. I pray that we do not use the current morning for ourselves, but for the citizens to hear us, our questions and our answers, that is the meaning of the current morning. Thank you very much. The next 32nd parliamentary issue and respected representative of the Suncana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26998	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, I will ask my question to you, and of course this question is in the interest of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. At the end of last year, Dusko Paripovic was arrested in Varazdin by the director of the Meteor Group, who managed more than 60% of buildings built according to the model of public-private partnership in Varazdin County while Radimir Cacic was head of the county. Over 26 projects were implemented under the model in which the total commitment of the county, municipalities, cities is over a billion kuna. Since public-private partnerships contracts are protected by a clause of secrecy, I don't know if you know it, I ask if this is possible in spending budgets and in what transparent way does the government deploy and control funds? I'm asking, is it possible that the general public might finally get an insight into the content of these contracts? This is more important and therefore, if we know that it is your Government, Mr. Prime Minister, that, in this year's budget, the Republic of Croatia has provided 23 million kunas on the draft budget for co-financing of commitments under the JPP model in Varazdinska and Koprivnica-Crysing County. The government, among other things, I hope you know that it took money from the health ministry's items, items for the treatment of malignancies in order to recover part of these debts. The government of the Republic of Croatia gives taxpayers money, all of us and the one in Dubrovnik, and the one in Čakovec, and the one in Varazdin, and the taxpayers don't know what they're spending on. Is it really the JPP according to your model or the model of your coalition partners that this is really about translated as in Varazdin, the Koprivnica speak public-private robbery? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u26999	Thank you, too. Answering your parliamentary question, Honored Zoran Milanovic, president of the Croatian government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27000	Thank you very much. I'm trying to remember if you've asked one question that's not from a black chronicle, ever. I don't think you're either. But it's your right. So now you're bombing me with information that I'm not familiar with. I don't know. So I'm supposed to believe you but I don't have a good experience when it comes to representatives on the right. Whenever I believe I cheat, and often I tend to believe, I'm a little naive. I'll check what you said. I'm sure you'll get a written answer. It's about the fact that you obviously know if you have such channels of information, I don't know. I know something about how a public-private partnership is conducted in Koprivnica and Varazdin successfully. The projects are visible, the results are there. I can tell you why Varazdin County was granted 20 or 30 million kuna for the transport of students in high school, because they financed it themselves earlier. As legally as possible, I suppose legally, but I don't know the details, I can't talk about it. And since we've already given it to everyone else, and this from the beginning, it's been made possible to the Varazdin County. It's fair to me, it's a fair relationship. We talked a lot about compulsory education in Croatia, about being a constitutional category, but you know that story ends when parents have to cash out 700 or 800 kuna per child to go to high school or high school 10 or 15km from the place of residence, and not live in the center of Zagreb or New Zagreb. And that's what we're working on, so that's the goal and that's the policy of this government. And that's why this year in the budget, a little less than 300 million kuna was allocated for that very purpose. Has anyone here made a mistake in steps somewhere in Croatia? Who's that? What's his name? I've never heard of a gentleman, you can ask me that, of course, but you don't expect me to answer that. You can ask a lot of questions but your question depends on whether or not I'm going to be able to give a relevant answer at the moment. Also your previous can ask a war hero who spent 9 months on the other side of the border and can market him if he was a month earlier or a month later in the Croatian Army but was in a way that people should respect. So it all depends on the question, you don't have to respect it, you can make fun of it, make fun of it and say that you are a great patriot and that you love Croatia. so spit on one man. You can't get a different answer. So your question was detailed, about the details that I'm not familiar with, and that kind of thing will normally be unknown to me because I'm not such a micromanager. You have information from the black chronicle and if someone is guilty if someone broke the law if someone alienated the money that will answer, I believe it will fit. I can't say 100% because that's the last word I don't have, but it will answer. And as far as our policies and our intentions are concerned, they are very clear and transparent, so free transportation or the possibility of children living in the city center not living near high school or high school, technical school being transported there and costing them nothing. It's the policy of this government, and we helped everyone, including the Varazdin County, who paid for it on her own. I don't know about the details, and I can't talk about the details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27001	Thank you, too. Appreciation of the esteemed representative of Sunny Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27002	Thank you very much. And listen, Mr. Prime Minister, don't be mad at me, they'd say my Međimurians or the Varazdins, but you should know what you wrote in the government amendment. So it seems to me that this amendment to the government serves to cover prison costs. Excuse me, the budget is public, and the expenses and stolen profits and secret contracts. I asked you, will the contracts become public? The question was very clear. If you don't know where it says it, here, change the government. Please take a look, I can give it to you. And not at all promising this isn't if this is the kind of model you intend to implement in secret contracts in future investments that are unfortunately only on paper. And according to your answers throughout the morning, unfortunately, there is not a bit of optimism, there is no answer to the question of how you will reduce unemployment, how to increase economic growth and how you will start investments. Equally be careful not to turn the model of the public private partnership into the Milanovic project 21. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27003	Thank you very much. Next 33 parliamentary issues and respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27004	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Prime Minister and the Ministers. I refer my question to the Prime Minister. Mr. President, the results of the 20 biggest state-owned companies in the first nine months of last year suggest that business was negative and that the loss of 257 million kuna was shown, which is a worse result for 835 million kuna than for the same period for the first 9 months of 2011. Otherwise, the 835 million kuna is the value of half of the Peljega Bridge that you gave up on because you allegedly don't have the funds for it. As an example that best testifies to the inability of the management and management of public companies, HEP may have been an example of HEP, which during the same period of 9 months last year showed a loss of 204 million kuna, and for comparison a year before HEP businessed with 412 million kunas, while last year additionally debted billions and 700 million kunas, and your Government gave the HEP the consent to increase the electricity price by 20%. You also announced during last year industrial tsunamis that should flood Croatia, which tsunamis should have been led mostly by these same managers in public enterprises that achieved a catastrophic result in the past, or for the first 9 months of last year. My question, Mr. President, would be whether these data represent besides other data that speak about the catastrophic state of Croatia and the fall of standards, the fall of bdp by almost 2%, the drop in production, the drop in consumption, the record unemployment rate, so whether these data represent debacle, failure, the breakdown of your financial, economic policy and, above all, perhaps, staff policies. Is this information to you a warning bell to maybe launch a serious thorough reconstruction of your government, primarily in the economic sector? Finally, my question is what are you going to do to make these companies a starter of the Croatian economy in 2013, to launch the investments you announced and to reduce the final number of unemployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27005	Thank you very much. The answer to your question, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27006	The respected colleague was a drought, and in this humiliating position we depend on drought, rain during the season, so all around the rain is in Croatia, all about dancing where he calls or does not want rain to come. Not in tourism, and if it's a drought in energy, that's the problem. Yeah, we got into this situation with a passive policy where there was no investment, so we're vitally dependent on it. I'll ask for the results of all of them, of course. The restructuring and reforms in public enterprises are going, look at the railroad. That's where you do things that haven't been done in years, you don't want to do things, nothing was done but nothing. Now it's done and it's costing, it's costing and moral, I mean people don't like it, it's not simple. It's building a railroad, it's building almost the whole thing. This valley section is the topic I was talking about, I'm going to tell you another 10 times why this is terribly expensive for Croatia at the moment, and why we have to justify this investment and not throw money away like some in southern Europe who are now paying dearly for it. What you need to be, and it will be, what you don't need to be when you need to be. It needs to be rational. So I give you examples of where it is being restructured, I quote you and I give you a very clear argument as to why HEP was in a difficult situation. The electricity price was supposed to go up a long time ago and you know it, but it didn't go up, you didn't make decisions. We make decisions, and that's why we let you guys do it on your own like this. It's a simple blow I'm willing to take, I'll survive it politically, I believe it. And when we talk, let me get this straight, I have this dilemma about the confidentiality of the contract, whether public private partnership contracts should be public or secret. To insisting on a private partner I'd rather publish, let's see what we can do about it, but I stress that they're not secrets for organs whose right to look at them, they're not secrets. So the police and the attorney's office, in case of a suspicion, come up like this. So that's the point of the story. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're throwing, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I answer to you. Thank God I'm using the opportunity I have because I'm using it, and the goal is to keep the public informed, too. You resent me for using 10 seconds to answer. Do you realize how unprincipled that is? ... Yeah, the rules of the game are those, so I'm not giving you the light, I'm telling you something I missed. Instead of being satisfied with what I'm saying wrong or informing you, you're telling me, and before that, you've been suggesting that we speak for four minutes because you're afraid of human words and freedom. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's your biggest concern, it's your biggest problem. ... /The noise in the hall./... To speak freely and to think freely for you is a black sea because you are exactly the opposite, exactly the opposite and the questions that you are asking the gentleman who has now gone to Fred Matic, I will repeat again, it is very ugly, it is terrible, there is no human respect, there is nothing there. ... There's nothing there. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I'm not gonna keep my mouth shut about that sort of thing, it's below human dignity, and I'm gonna tell him that in four eyes when I see him. I can't stop it, it doesn't occur to us, but that's what we need to talk about. It's simply a human, military, Croatian, poor, bottom. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27007	Thank you. ... Please, come on. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] As if you haven't been in the Parliament long, and those who react as if you don't know the Croatian standard of the Croatian Parliament. Please don't be nice, let him answer to the point of view of the one who answers. You can express dissatisfaction, say you didn't get an answer, that you weren't given an answer to your question, ask for a written answer, you know that. And you have the right to be angry, but let it be heard, that's all I ask. ... You can't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yes, you can. I'm sorry, thank you very much for that. Let's go hear the testimony of the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27008	Well, I'm not happy Mr. President with your answer. First of all, it's not a flat-rate bag. These are data provided by your administrations and supervisory committees and confirmed on the FINA as well. Therefore, these are accurate data indicating the incompetence of these directors who are today managing public sectors. The other thing is not a dry cause of loss. The drought was before 2012, so the same HEP did not deal with the loss but was able to reorganize and operate differently in that year. The drought, i.e. the right elemental accident that has conditioned such a result of public enterprises, is your decision to appoint the principles of these companies and the supervisory boards to appoint their party members, members, comrades and to give up the principle that in public enterprises, experts are appointed to the supervisory boards based on public competitions, and in this way you said yourself, you took responsibility for the situation in these companies. If you have declared that responsibility then take it, reshuffle the government or resign.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27009	Thank you very much. We are going to the 34 parliamentary issue and the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27010	Thank you, Mr. President. My question, which I consider to be very important for my neighborhood, for Istria, for Pula, but for the entire Republic of Croatia, I will refer to the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Cesarek. Dear Deputy, lately in Istria and Pula is speculated that the state will stop building a hospital in Pula or that it will use this construction in day-to-day and pre-election topics. So I ask you now to clear up this subject here and answer one question specifically. Are we going to build a hospital in Pula or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27011	Thank you very much. The answer to your question is Deputy Minister of Honor, Cesarek Marian.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27012	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Grbin. Here I can briefly answer that the government of the Republic of Croatia certainly does not stop the construction of the General Hospital in Pula. In fact, he's conducting all the procedures he needs heading towards the construction of a General Hospital in Pula. At this point, activity is on obtaining a state guarantee from a bank that will lend, so building a hospital in Pula. And after all the necessary procedures have been completed, after the Government of the Republic of Croatia has issued a state guarantee, we can go to tendering for the selection of the best bidder to build a hospital in Pula and then to build a hospital in Pula. Therefore, there is no stopping or obstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27013	Thank you, too. The obvious? Thank you very much, no. Next 35 parliamentary issues and respected representative Branko Boxti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27014	I thank you, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. I will refer my question to the vice president, Mr. Greek. Mr Vice-President, as much as the planned 2012 budget has not been spent, and it was foreseen for state investments because of this, we had a 1.8% GDP decline.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27015	Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27016	I didn't understand. Did you just ask about my ministry or something? For my ministry? So 100 million kuna has not been used in the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds since the original plan. Of course you expect me to say why 100 million kunas were not spent. Some 40 million kunas have not been used to finance EU funds since the start was misplanned, it is literally misplanned. So, there's been a mistake in planning. Furthermore, 40 million were not spent on EIB projects, so co-financed by the European Investment Bank and the reason is precisely the problems mentioned here several times today, and these are the serious problems of construction firms in Croatia, especially small and medium-sized companies who simply die daily, I would have said precisely because of what my colleague Jovanovic was saying earlier, and this is a competition that comes with unusually and unrealisticly low offers and people come somewhere on half the project, spend money and don't know what to do next, get into problems, can't realise signed contracts, etc. etc. True, we're going to meet them, and I must also say it very openly and transparently. We extend the deadlines for the realisation of the contract and tolerate some additional costs that arise in the realisation of these investments. However, it seems still little that such projects are realised under these conditions with which people appear in the competition. I'm very sorry about that. So, respecting the existing Public Procurement Act in the last cycle of public procurement, one company received at the lowest price criterion at the same time 15 projects in my ministry. And you know where he is now? At Slavko Linić's in front of a bankruptcy settlement because they simply can't realise these projects. The other big problem is that we don't pay subcontractors so that those little craftsmen, small construction firms, complain to us, we can't help them, we will this year because we've put all the subcontractors in contract so we can directly pay the subcontractors because the law allows it. So we're trying to find models and ways to fix things. Otherwise, for comparisons so that this number doesn't really hurt your eyes I have to tell you that it's about as much as the last government, or the Ministry of Regional Development in 2011 as a percentage, so there's relatively little money left, so we're somewhere in the standard. We're in standard, and the problems this year are probably where they were in 2012 and where they were bigger. Here's something I can tell you as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27017	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. And an indication of the respected representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27018	Thank you. In our nation, they say who confesses half of them are forgiven. I was also glad to hear your answer when you said because of your mistake that 40 million kunas were not spent. On the other hand, we who come from local self-government cry out for money, among other things, from your ministry. Unfortunately, we're not in a position to get that same money. And it is indeed a sad fact that 100 million kunas remain unaltered knowing all the problems in municipalities, cities, counties throughout the Republic of Croatia have, especially, those that come from the area of special state concern. So I can be pleased that you admitted that there was so much money left. But I also think it is worrying for all of us that our environment is what it is, and on the other hand we do not do what we should do ourselves and thus improve the situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27019	Thank you very much. Next parliamentary issue number 36 and respected representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27020	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a question for the Prime Minister, Mr. Milanovic. I also want to say that for the first time we have no transmission of this current clock on the second channel of Croatian Radio and Croatian Television, that without notice it has been moved to the fourth channel, so that citizens will not have the opportunity to hear any questions from this current clock because they will simply be interrupted by news that will be shown on the fourth channel, or on the news channel. It's inadmissible for public service. I also want to ask the Prime Minister a question because I tried to get it in response to the competent ministers, however, without success as well as interested workers. I am also asking the question because when the new government came to power with President Milanovic at the head of it, there was an announcement of a miracle of investment, a major investment boom that will ensure a better life for workers because economic growth will take place. One of the investments has been launched. It's about the Zagreb Airport. I will not ask details as to why the concession agreement with the concessionary was signed by someone else, not in accordance with Article 9 which explicitly says it should be signed by the competent minister. I'm not going to ask why no shovels have been buried so far because of a series of problems. I will not ask why the concession contract was awarded to a company that has a core capital that has more than twice the basic capital of Zagreb Airport. But I ask why for months the workers of the Zagreb Airport cannot gain insight into the concession agreement, although they have repeatedly asked for it. I also ask why workers are denied the right to acquire up to 10% of the shares guaranteed by the Government's conclusion of February 2011 and their rights, including other rights under the collective contract, entered into the tendering documents that were submitted when offers were received for the acquisition of the concession contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27021	Thank you very much. Answering your question, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, respected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27022	Thank you. That's what happens when you let others write you questions about a matter you don't do. This means what I said. [[/Intruder: What does this mean?]] That's what happens when you ask questions that you don't want to ask, just that. And speak Croatian or Armenian? So that's what's going on. [[President: Be my guest, Mr. President.]] That's my attitude. I speak Croatian. Right? And that standard. So you're wrong. If your economic logic is at the level of buried shovels, then you don't understand why we're going to change the law and the Strategic Investment Act, which some of your colleagues welcome because they understand something. It's not a shovel, nor will the shovel be buried. It's a much more sophisticated machine, and what needs to be solved first is papers. It's complicated. Of course nothing was done there. And this government was waiting for the government to legally regulate it, to arrange, to sign a contract, to regulate each other's rights, that by the authorized person of the deputy minister at that time, and you know why it was at that point to assume an obligation with which the concessionary had no problems. It's a highly respected provider, of course, that needs to secure the funds. The basic interest exists. The Croatian government, for its part, has done everything on its part, including expropriating and buying certain land to keep the papers clean. If it were to happen now that everything that's not gonna happen, we have a project. So it's easy to talk, talk, talk and for 20 years Zagreb has a small now already province airport. Of course, guests and tourists will not come overnight, and it should be hard to work on, and not everyone has that knowledge. If we had him, we probably shouldn't give it to the concession. This is how we play in partnership with great world players, with people who have great experience, and you know very well where and what they've been working on. So it was all based on a public tender, based on advisors as already done. Same thing when it comes to privatisation. This isn't about privatisation, though. So we always take counselors. There are some business secrets as well. You're asking why the workers can't get an insight? It's hard for me to answer that question because I don't know who's authorized to get something that's a business secret to insight. So I can't answer that question. I don't know those details. As I know, I am going back to JPP that all council members and members of the headship have the right to see the contracts when they are signed and have to sign the obligation to remain silent because of the private claim. So, it's all regulated. But if there's room for improvement, we can talk about it. This is where we've been doing the hard part of the job in the last year, which is the legal perfection of that contract and that investment. Without that, you guys can bury as much as you want. It's a medieval political economy. It doesn't work like that. And that's why we're going into these laws to get these houses out of the middle of the road to clean up the space and to do it in one place and that everyone who's interested in instead of dispersion sees things in one place and that you can tell us people you cheat, you're unfair, you sell out national heritage, sell out forests, rivers, lakes or maybe management the opposite. So we're not afraid of that focus. I want people to know what's going on. And that's why we're going to, uh, break down certain barriers so tomorrow the same ones that are criticizing us wouldn't say there's no investment. It's not a guarantee of investment either, but it's a guess. And the guarantee that you're stable, a well-organised state, that you don't cheat, that millions of euros don't alienate in public enterprises seem to be missing, and the results will come. And they used to alienate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27023	Thank you very much. Appreciation for the response, respected representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27024	I don't know the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia if we speak Croatian. And since others are writing written answers to you, and I'm writing my own question so I can repeat the question that you haven't answered again, I would ask you nicely to let someone write me a written answer because, a written answer, and I asked you why the concession agreement is unreachable to workers who have to fight there to secure their labour rights? More than a thousand employees of Zagreb Airport do not know what it says, and they have a representative on the Supervisory Board who is responsible for ensuring the implementation of this. That was the first question. And the second question was, why don't you respect the government's conclusion that it wasn't put out of effect, which guarantees that workers acquire up to 9% of the shares of this public company as they did in other companies? That's what I asked you. As for shovels and projects, they were alive and seen. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27025	Thank you very much. The next 37th parliamentary issue and respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27026	Thank you. So here's a question for the president of the Croatian government. Mr. President of the Croatian Government do you know that today Croatian agricultural production has been on the lowest branches since when there is a modern Croatian state, with a range of production? Did you know that 5% of the largest agricultural producers today handle almost 50% of the total agricultural area in the Republic of Croatia? and did you know that over 30% of the total state incentives go away only one of those 5% of the largest? And do you know that one of the largest simultaneously and largest importers of food in the Republic of Croatia? And according to that Kadija judge you, Kadija sues you, this one we call it a buying-in and import lobby primarily and is not interested in domestic production, nor in the Croatian village has its legitimate interest in profit, which is usually much easier to achieve through imports than through encouraging primary production. And should the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament in some way protect the interests of Croatian production, i.e. Croatian peoples and Croatian states? And the questions in this context are whether the stay of the Croatian village, the Slavonian village and the lives in that village is the strategic interest of the Croatian state and Croatian government or not? Why does the Government of the Republic of Croatia actually push the new Law on Agricultural Land to fail? and will this government, through agriculture and through this law, revive that infamous Syntagma from the mid-90s of 100 wealthy families, but in a way that Croatian and Slavonic fields will end up owned by 100 wealthy families?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27027	Thank you very much. The Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic will answer your question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27028	You asked a lot of suggestive questions, but in one place you said if I was aware you asked me if I was aware that we were pushing Croatian peasants to fail by amending the Law on Agricultural Land without any single argument or attempt at an argument, you didn't even talk about it, so that's what you just realized. So please and call on me in response to the... answer you probably won't be pleased to explain how this changes to the Law on Agriculture where one strategic resource of the Croatian State, the nation, puts the community under control that it can't be more transparent when everything is in one place. It's land, it's not dust, it's not money. Or to solve it in 250 Slavonian municipalities, depending on who is there in power and to favour or not favor far from the eyes of the public. In my opinion, the existing model has just ruined the Croatian village, but you and I are obviously looking at this phenomenon differently. I don't speak or raise people who live in the country but talk to Croatian citizens. And when I go around them that I do less than you probably do because you're from that neighborhood and by nature you're more often there, but I know something about it, I don't sell these people fog. I see people who are in serious trouble and if they don't change, if they don't modernize, if they don't invest more in themselves and in their business, no one will help them. And it's not a question of life in the country because everyone wants to have more and their children to have more, to be able to study and be rich and independent. Will it be in the country and live in the country or will it live in a small town in Đakov, Osijek or Zagreb? So we do everything to be competitive and to produce more and make people more and to stay more. And if you are already insinuating a company of one big manufacturer and merchants in Croatia, please mention it, speak plainly about who it is. Why are you afraid to criticize? This is how it stays at the level of insinuation. Turns out we're in cahoots, I don't know with a chain of trade, which, for Christmas, distributes ballots in which the Croatian government is criticised. Well, I guess I'd have a reason to be against that kind of trade chain, but I'm not, I'm not, it's right. Be more concrete in criticism because there is room for criticism but also for arguments that some major producers in Croatia produce quality products and become competitive by rounding up and expand in Slovenia, Serbia, BiH. And ask yourselves today, but this is not the result of my government's work, so perhaps not the previous one, which is the last food product you bought from the area of the former Yugoslavia. I buy mostly Croatian but not because I'm buttoned up and because I don't like other people's products, I love quality and advantageous, but because Croatian products are solid, and 35-40 years ago, products from a republic that lost that production. What remains was bought by Croatian and several Serbian entrepreneurs and this is the result of a policy that was defined as good, devaluation, competitive, there is nothing. When we go to the store from the former state, I buy mostly Croatian food or from imports. So let's not show things to black people but what they are, they're not black, they're heavy. These are difficult colors and should be cheered up and we will do everything to make it so, but I want to help these small people who are being manipulated and who are making an illusion about the Croatian village and life in the country to be independent and productive citizens who will earn something for themselves, and not to raise them and tell them the pastoral from 150 years ago, there is no more. And when I come among such people, it hurts me humanly because I see that within five miles of him is someone who would be competitive in Germany. We need these more and this is the future of Croatian agriculture, this is the future of agricultural production and the European Union is giving us that chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27029	Thank you very much. And the obvious of the respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27030	Thank you. So the proposal for a law on agricultural land that has come into the procedure in equal terms puts the holders of family holdings and legal persons. In the current law, the OPGs had an advantage over legal persons and these legal entities, large legal entities which both producers and importers of food with them cannot compete with the OPGs. So that's a concrete criticism. And these 550,000 hectares that go into the 50-year concession remind me that the modern Croatian state today is 22.5 years old which the 50-year concession is actually a permanent takeover. None of us have a memory of what's going to happen in 50 years. In this country, most things don't last five or ten years. So a 50-year concession is a de facto permanent giving in which 550,000 hectares of de facto are favoured by legal persons and large players on the market in this proposal. Here's the intensity, so I invite you if you have a chance to take another look at that bill and see which way it's actually going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27031	Thank you. Thank you very much, Your Honor. And the last 38 parliamentary issues and respected representative Zeljko Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27032	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear President of the Croatian Government and members of the government. I will ask my question to the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Sinishi Hajdash Doncic. Dear Minister, you'll agree that whoever doesn't have a fast Internet connection today is in some way cut off from the world. The government announced a project the other day that state-owned companies' infrastructure could be used to expand the internet in all parts of the Republic of Croatia, not just in large cities. My question is, in fact, I am interested and I believe a large number of Croatian citizens who are today without internet, what will be done, what will be the impact of this project and what is the objective deadline of its realization.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27033	Your question will be answered by Minister Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27034	Thank you very much, Your Honor. James Watt, Falton, the Tesla I'm going to mention today, Henry Ford, Hoto, were the leaders during the history of certain major social changes. I'm talking about the first and second industrial revolution. The third industrial revolution is actually digitisation or a digital industrial revolution. The prerequisite for this is actually the availability of primary optical infrastructure, in this case in all parts marked according to the strategy for the development of broadband internet as a gray or white zone in the Republic of Croatia. Currently 92000 households in the Republic of Croatia do not have access to the Internet, broadband, and 30% of the population especially in large cities has access to so-called. NGA or new generations of access, means where we speak in a simple language about the internet at higher or high speeds. The situation in Croatia is that most public companies have invested in optics, so we are currently talking about 6000 km of optics, which exists with their primary infrastructure, according to the Croatian Railways, Croatian highways, Rijeka-Zagreb highways, HEP, PLINACRO. Of course, it is logical then that the state initiates a process of unifying broadband, primary connections to end-users, especially in rural areas of the Republic of Croatia and here I am talking exclusively about the wholesale principle. So that last mile or last mile always stays for private operators who then do that final provider service. Finally, this will lead to lower prices, higher speeds and better availability for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and in particular I am speaking in light of the digital agenda 20-20 or the one that I call the paradigm called re-use of data or re-use of data, which is actually a prerequisite for creating a new entrepreneurial cycle. In conclusion, lower prices, higher competitiveness, higher availability and higher speed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27035	There's no obvious. First, one notice to all colleagues and colleagues and respected representatives of the government, the president and ministers. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication I would like to inform you to the Rules of Procedure that the departments have not delivered an answer to 37 parliamentary questions within the prescribed time limit and, in accordance with the said Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask you to answer the parliamentary delivery questions as soon as possible. Now I can find out, finish, find out that we're currently done in the morning, that we're scheduled to resume the session at 3:30 p.m., and until then it's a break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27036	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the afternoon session and we move on to the agenda. I suggest because it's so consistent with clubs a united debate on the first and second points of the agenda. So about 1. Final draft law on open-end investment funds with public offering, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 235. 1. Final draft law on alternative investment funds, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 234. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the suggestions in the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted on the final draft law on open-end investment funds with a public offer of the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. And about the other law, these two committees too. You received the report at the session. On behalf of the promoter, the opening statement of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27037	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Since 1995, there has been a legislative framework in the Republic of Croatia that regulates the establishment and operation of investment funds, the Investment Funds Act, and the applicable law was passed in 2005. The proposed law on open-end investment funds with a public offering is subject to mandatory harmonisation of national rules with the Directive, so-called "the so-called ". ... on the open-end investment funds of Directive 2009/65/EC and Directive 2010/42/EU on the merger of the 2010/43/EU Funds on organisational requirements, conflict of interest on risk management and Directive 2010/78/EU is authorised by the European Insurance and Capital Market Supervisory Agency. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] The law clearly distinguishes the category of open investment funds, etc. ... funds from basic alternative investment funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The open-end investment funds with a public offering shall constitute a separate property without legal personality established by the management company and managed by it on its behalf for the joint account of the holding company in that asset, in accordance with the provisions of the law. These are investment funds for transferable securities and can be binding, mixed, stock and cash. The volatility of the financial market and the global economic crisis had a significant impact on the development of the financial industry in the Republic of Croatia, which peaked at the end of 2007, when the value of the net assets of the open investment funds amounted to 30 billion kuna, in order to amount to 9.9 billion kuna at the end of 2008, or at the bottom in the second month of 2009, when the value of the net assets amounted to only 8.5 billion kuna. It is important to say that the share of the net assets of open investment funds is slowly recovering in 2012, and at the end of last year the net assets of funds increased by one billion. So, an annual increase of one billion or about 9%. The gradual recovery also tells the fact that in 2012 there was an increase in the total number of participants in open investment funds with a public offering from 179836 to 184523. This is the last data from 9 months of 2012 or by 2.6%. 98.6% of the total number of participants refers to individuals holding 50.8% of the total portfolio value. On 31.12.2012 in the Republic of Croatia, 96 open-end investment funds with a public offering of 47 shares, 23 coins, 18 mixed and 8 binding funds were operated with the power of the new law to become so-called. UCITS funds. On 31.12.2012, the net assets of these funds amounted to $12.6 billion, mostly representing assets in the money funds of $9.1 billion or 72% of total volume. Then assets in stock funds amounting to $1.9 billion or 15%, mixed with $1.1 billion or 9%, and a smaller share of wastes on bond funds with net assets of 447 million kuna or 4%. It is certainly interesting to note that since the start of the global crisis, the structure of investment in open investment funds with a public offering has changed to today so that the share of investment in domestic securities and deposits has increased from 65% to 85% while the share of investment in foreign securities has decreased from 35% to 15%. It also increased the share of investments in short-term securities deposits from 26% somewhere there in 2007 when it peaked at 68%, while the share of investments in shares fell from 60% to 17%. The law lays down the conditions for the establishment and operation of management companies and investment funds themselves, the organisational requirements of the management company, cross-border performance of the activities, the way in which the shares of the funds, the trading of shares, the determination of the value of the assets and the price of the share of the fund and the conduct of the operations of depositaries are issued. The work authorisation issued by the Open Investment Fund management company in the Republic of Croatia is valid throughout the EU territory. The current law also introduces the possibility of establishing a roof-open investment fund consisting of several sub-funds. In addition, the main and powering funds are introduced, with the power of the fund being the one that has at least 85% of its assets investing in the main fund's shares. The law contains committees which provide adequate supervision of the operations of the fund management company, depositaries and persons offering shares in the funds. This ensures the offer on the Croatian market and protects the interests of the shareholders, as well as improving the investment climate by promoting and preserving trust in the capital market. The Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency has been appointed to the fund's management supervisor and to the competent authority for the authorisation to work in a fund management company established in the Republic of Croatia. The law ensures the necessary compliance with the EU acquis, allowing mutual recognition of the authorisation system for the work of immunity control in the EU, respecting the authorisation of authorised issuers from competent authorities, queens of Member States for management as established in another Member State, through the border merger of all types of funds with prior approval, the possibility of trading in other Member States, as well as the prescribed notification procedures, information exchange and communication between the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia and the Member States with the central authorities of the EU. The entry into force of this law provides for Croatia's accession to the EU. In short, we'll also talk about alternative investment funds. So alternative investment funds are all those funds that aren't open-end investment funds with a public offering, so when we try to classify them, they're funds for easier presentation we're talking about real estate funds, private equity funds that we know on our market as... which we don't have on our market but actually do business outside. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By entering into force of the new law, existing closed investment funds with a public offering, open investment funds with a private offer and open venture capital investment funds with a private offer will become alternative investment funds. Currently in the Republic of Croatia we have 7 closed investment funds, 18 open-end investment funds with a private offer and 7 open-end venture capital funds with a private offer. Thus, 32 funds exist on the Croatian market. On Day 31. 12. In 2012, the total net assets of all alternative investment funds amounted to around 2 and a half billion kuna, the structured closed investment funds of net assets were around 1.6 billion kuna, of which 1.1 billion kuna relates to the capital fund managed by the Croatian pension investment company. Open-end investment funds with private offering, net assets somewhere around 347 million kuna and open-end venture capital funds with a private offer of net assets of 531 million kuna. The law states that an alternative investment fund established with the purpose and purpose of raising funds to a public or private offer and investing these funds in different types of assets in accordance with a predetermined strategy and the objective of investing an alternative investment fund solely for the benefit of holders of the share of that fund. The law lays down the tasks of the company to manage alternative investment funds, meet organisational requirements, avoid conflicts of interest, monitor compliance of business with relevant regulations, and adopt and establish appropriate procedures and measures to address complaints from investors. As an investor in alternative funds, professional investors who have sufficient capital and experience to make their own investment decisions and assess the associated risks are envisaged. However, in certain cases, with prior approval of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency in the share of individual alternative investment funds, small investors will also be able to be offered. HANFA is defined by the competent supervisory authorities for the authorisation of an alternative investment fund management company in the Republic of Croatia. The aim of the law is to ensure a higher level of investor protection, the establishment of a common framework for the approval, operation and supervision of the company's business for the management of alternative investment funds. The idea is also to offer alternative investment funds on the Croatian market, resulting in improvements in the investor Ška climate and to generate positive economic effects both at the level of investment and at the level of the state. The entry into force of the law provides for the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU and for the entry into force of the new law on open investment funds with a public offering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27038	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. The first in line is the HNS Club, a colleague of Natalija Martincevic. She's gone. The club's losing the right to debate on this wheel. SDP club and counterpart Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27039	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's something... to continue our regular work and allow me to explain in a few short lines the SDP Club's views on these two laws and the reasons why the SDP Club will support them. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the experience of this House and the Republic of Croatia with the legislative framework and institutional investment funds has existed since the first adoption of the Investment Funds Act and the current topic is today followed by the law adopted in 2005. The proposal of these two laws requires the harmonisation of national rules with the UKITS 4 Directive on open investment funds from 2009. ... 2010 [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These two laws, therefore, now unlike the ones so far when they were subject to one clearly distinguish between two categories. On the one hand, the category of open investment funds of UCITS funds, etc. and category of other or alternative investment funds. Given the significant contribution of investment funds to the development of the capital market, the development of the money and capital market in the Republic of Croatia, the new biggest challenge is in fact a transformation after Croatia's entry into the EU, given the liberalisation of the market or the opening of borders for funds registered abroad. As regards open-end investment funds with a public offering, which is the subject of this first law, they represent a separate property without legal personality established by the management company and manages it on its behalf with the common account of the holding company in that asset or fund. In accordance with the provisions of the law, these are funds for the investment of transferable securities, and can be mandatory, mixed, shareable and monetary, therefore, something introductory Mr. Deputy Minister is currently a current 96-open investment fund with a public offering which, by the power of this law, will become UCITS funds. Of that, 49% of the shares are today, so... English funds, therefore, are very high risks, 8% are mandatory or moderate risk funds, 24% cash funds or many market funds, and 19% mixed or balanced or English-based balance funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Currently, the net assets of these funds are currently 12 almost 13 billion kuna, and this slight increase has been reported in the past year. It is interesting that the growth of funds from symbolic amounts is indeed in the 1990s, so until 2001 rapid growth in the past decade until 2007 the geometric progression is growing, the market is falling, the crisis is falling, and since then it has been about stagnating. That this law is complex makes it clear to you that there are 389 articles detailing the conditions for the establishment and operation of management companies as well as the funds themselves, organisational requirements of companies for managing the conditions for cross-border performance of activities, ways of issuing purchases and trading to the shares of all these funds. Detailed arrangements and procedures are laid down for the determination of the value of assets and the price of the share of UCITS funds and the performance of depositary operations. It is important to point out that the authorisation for the operation of the HANFA issued by these companies is valid in the territory of the EU as a whole. In relation to the applicable law, what is the change is that more detailed conditions are laid down under which a management company can delegate tasks and jobs to third parties, in order to increase the efficiency of its business. However, this fact that a management company delegates its tasks will not have an impact on the responsibility of that company or the depositary itself in relation to the holders of the shares and the competent authorities. The current law also introduces the possibility of establishing a roof UCITS fund consisting of several sub-lopes. The law also contains a number of provisions that allow more effective supervision of the operations of all participants, so management companies, depositary funds themselves and those offering shares in funds. The law provides for the necessary compliance with the acquis, allows mutual recognition of the system of authorisation for work and prudential supervision in the EU, respect for licensing, approval, authorisation by the competent authorities of the management company’s home Member State, provided that it is established in another country, cross-border mergers of all types of funds with prior authorisation, the possibility of trading in other Member States, as well as the prescribed procedures for the notification, exchange of information, communication between the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia in this case of the HANFA and the competent authorities of other Member States and, of course, of the central authorities of the EU. He said that the entry into force of this law and the law on alternative investment funds is the date of Croatia's entry into the EU, so 1.7 this year. As far as the Alternative Investment Funds Act is concerned, there is still compliance with Directive 2011 No 61 on managers of these funds. Thus, the parallel adoption of these two laws clearly distinguishes what alternative investment funds are, and these are all those funds that are not classical investment funds with a public offering to invest in transferable securities. It is therefore closed investment funds with a public offering and open investment funds with private offerings that become alternative funds. Most often these are real estate funds, it is also said so far, private capital funds in Europe, hedge funds and so on. Currently in Croatia we have 7 closed investment funds, 18 open-end investment funds with a private offer and 7 open-end venture capital funds with a private offer. So if today's law were valid, 32 companies would request a licence for a fund, hence an alternative investment fund. The assets of today's net assets are slightly more than 2.5 billion and that of closed investment funds is almost a billion 700. The open-end investment funds with a private offer of about 360 million and open-end venture capital funds with a private offer are primarily 5 FGS funds of economic co-operation. Their net assets today are about 530 million kuna. Therefore, this law also sets out in detail the conditions for the establishment and operation of companies for the management of alternative investment funds, the authorisation of work, the fulfilment of organisational requirements, the avoidance of potential conflicts of interest, the monitoring of the compliance of operations with relevant regulations, and the adoption and establishment of appropriate procedures and measures to address complaints by investors. It is not necessary to mention, of course, the approval for the work of the company issued by HANFA also applies in the EU as a whole. Alternative investment funds also spoke of the opening Mr. Deputy therefore primarily for professional investors, so investors with sufficient knowledge, experience and capital, and hence the possibility of a better assessment of potential risks. But I say this law does not deny that, with the prior approval of HANFA, small investors can also be offered in the share of these alternative investment funds. In conclusion, colleagues and colleagues, the aim of adopting both of these laws is to ensure a high level of protection for investors, by establishing a common framework for authorisation for work, and by monitoring the business of investment fund management companies, on the other hand, to create a structure that will make it impossible for the capital sector to fund industry and weaken its impact on investment decisions, and to enable more investment funds on the Croatian market, resulting in an improvement of the investment climate and generate positive economic effects both at the investment level and at the country-wide level. Here's a colleague and a colleague, so I've exhausted my argument with arguments that the SDP Representatives Club will support these two laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27040	Thank you very much. There's a colleague named Davor Ivo Stier on your line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27041	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here is a colleague, Radjenovic, who pointed out how important this law is, and this is the same regulation of this area, regulation of the capital markets in general because we saw how inappropriate regulation of the capital market has led to that financial crisis in America that has been shed later. And here we are from the position and from the Christian democracy, from the aspect of the social market economy we see exactly the role of the state. However, I thought, of course, that you and from a social democratic position also support it, but I do not understand why you propose in this Article 274 that the agency can empower an audit company, so why you give such one authority or one delegation of one function of protection of public interest to private entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27042	Thank you. There is a club called HDZ and a colleague, Martina Dalic, on the re-4d.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27043	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, as has already been said before us, there are two laws that regulate the business of industry and investment funds and open investment funds on the one hand and all of them. In fact, in these two laws, we are transposing relatively new directives into our legal system, directives that were adopted during 2009, 2010 and 2011, which means that essentially by taking over these directives, we are slowly starting to take over the legal consequences of lessons learned by the European Union during the crisis. In particular, the central conclusion of Europe which it has come to by analysing the causes which have essentially triggered the financial crisis is that it is necessary to strengthen the power of supervisory institutions, and to replace the coordination of the supervisory authorities of the Member States so far with the establishment of a central European supervisory authority which will more or less directly supervise all supervisory entities or at least ensure a very uniform application of the Directive. It therefore creates a unique European financial space whose consequences we are beginning to face with these two laws. Of course, the banks will follow, and I believe some other changes. This new financial architecture of Europe, which is particularly reflected in the 2010 and 2011 directives, essentially limits the possibilities for the space of national regulators, in our case of HANFA, to bring the operating conditions of the domestic financial industry, i.e. the fund industry, in line with some national specificities and needs of the development of the financial and fund industry. Arguments such as insufficient development of the domestic financial industry, the difficulties of legal entities that, because of their insufficient size, they bear the costs of regulatory, development needs, these European directives do not know. They prescribe a uniform, consistent and almost final technical detail by Europe a regulated way of operating this industry. However, all of this together and all of these requirements that provide for directives as such, which we must assume by the nature of our membership, are also being passed by these two drafts of the law, and other surprising elements, that is to say, introduce some additional restrictions which the Directives do not know, while on the other hand, they do not introduce and allow exceptions to the Croatian legal system and the business of the fund industry. Limitation which, for example, The 2009 Open Fund Business Directive, and it does not know later, is the obligation of the fund management companies to organise themselves as limited liability companies that have a supervisory board. As we know, the Company Act does not provide that limited liability companies have a supervisory board or that obligation requires a directive, but it requires our law. This, of course, has its own costs, taking into account the size and nature of the operators operating in this industry, and the practical question is, where will all these financial experts who meet the conditions of membership in the supervisory board not prescribed by the law be found. Finally, these supervisory committees are in an industry where everything is detailed and will be even more detailedly prescribed by the European Commission. Of course, the Croatian legal system is complicated because it introduces a form of entrepreneurial organization unknown in the rest of the economy. In contrast, the Alternative Funds Directive provides for an exemption from the regulation of funds with assets of less than 100 million euros. This exemption was sought and received by Member States because they want to maintain flexibility in the development of their financial system. In the end, it is also possible because alternative funds are funds whose investors are much more informed, much more sophisticated and should not be protected as in the case of open funds. Of course, Europe is counting on alternative funds and as an instrument for dynamicising its economic growth, and therefore Member States have fought the directive itself that funds that have assets of less than EUR 100 million or in some cases are not subject to 300 and are not subject to the directive. This release of our law does not foresee so that the business of closed investment funds will be less competitive in us. And then, of course, where do you think the management societies of these funds will be established? In Croatia, there are 7 closed investment funds, e.g. Their total assets are 1.6 billion kuna. Therefore, the total assets of all 7 are less than the exemption limit for the individual fund which provides for the directive. However, such a relief and such a space for the development of alternative funds does not allow our law. Why? I believe that the legislator will explain or at least try to explain because I don't see any objective reason not to allow it in an industry that is so difficult to regulate bureaucratically, which our financial entities in the fund industry are going to have to bear and endure anyway, so as not to allow what they've developed to fight for themselves. Why do we create the most rigid legislation of what was made for the most developed? Why? It is the essence of the directive here to strengthen these supervisory roles of European supervisory authorities and in general strengthens the quality of supervision. It is a general trend that began with a high level of group chaired by Jacques Delarsie in November 2008 and then continued to build and implement these recommendations. The EU is heading towards building a European financial supervisory system consisting of three separate institutions, for banking, for the capital and insurance market and for the European Systemic Risk Council. The point is for these institutions to manage the European financial space in a unique way in the future. Therefore, by discussing and adopting these laws, we need to highlight two things to transpose the rules of business and the organisation of the Fund Management Society, the responsibilities of management members, restrictions, investment, trade rules and all this together. However, we also adopt newer directives and rules to ensure the uniform and uniform application of these directives, and space as I have said for the recognition of national, economic and developmental specificities is reduced to a minimum. Because when these laws say that HANFA is going to adopt a regulation, then in nature it means that it will adopt the technical implementing standards adopted by the European Commission, because that is the way the 2010 Directive prescribes it. I point out these trends in the development of the European financial industry so as to underline in fact and here publicly warn that the rules of business, the financial industries, the financial industries, the banking industry, the insurance industries are determined and will be further determined at Union level and respected regardless of the objective level of development of our fund industry. I am saying this essentially in the context of always live debates that re-emerge from time to time and seek and suggest that some of their own solutions and some of their own practices are defined in Croatia. There is no room for this, unfortunately, neither in the fund or in the banking industry because we are obliged to apply the acquis with the measure of our membership. And it is precisely a special shame that, despite such rigid European legislation, we actually prescribe some more and introduce some additional rigid elements, and these are, as I have already said, the obligation to set up supervisory committees in such a highly regulated and bureaucratic industry, and of course there is no one else. And, of course, the failure to integrate into our laws of exceptions that exist in the directive itself, which exist for developed ones, and Croatia does not allow them and will not allow them at least not in this bill, given that it is going in an emergency procedure. There are still some small but sweet bureaucratic obstacles in the law itself. For example, we will become a member and try and fight for our qualifications to be recognised abroad. Now in the Alternative Funds Act, as a condition for meeting the requirements for membership in the administration, it is prescribed to have exams for an investment advisor organised by HANFA, regardless of any schools, certificates, SFEs, MBAs and other convenient English abbreviations recognised and valued in every European country, we are also asked for investment, laying down an investment advisor's examination with HANFA, which makes it quite unclear that this exam and how it educates, for example, managers of a risk capital fund that participates and effectively manages some company. But here's a small cost source. Both laws also prescribe what I would like to draw attention to that the HANFA will exercise supervision, of course, and that the costs of supervision will be borne by the supervisory entity. Well, come on, the surveillance entity will pay the control costs, but the amount of compensation will determine the HANFA. In no way does the law prescribe at least one criterion based on which and by which HANFA might then or should establish that compensation. Once again, it means one that would be called a non-taxable burden and very non-transparent. Because when and if the HANFAs deprive money, then it's a simple solution to fix HANFA's incomes to go into surveillance and that surveillance well and expensively charge and pay. I think that such a definition of the possibility of HANFA's behaviour is not good because if so, even if it is necessary to establish criteria based on which control entities might also know what and what price to HANFA might expect. Finally, these two laws, as I have already said several times, do what a Member State is obliged to do, include us in a European financial space with everything involving the European financial industry with all the advantages and disadvantages of that participation, but I believe it is extremely bad that the law in some parts of the directive shows itself more rigid than the Directive and that there is little space left for the directive and allows for some development segments and innovation in the fund industry that this space in Croatia will not be allowed to be made possible by these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27044	Thank you very much. The Club of Croatian Labourists and counterpart Branko Vuksic is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27045	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy deputy minister with associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. If we focus on both laws, the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering and the Alternative Investment Funds Act, the laws that are in line with the EU acquis, have no fundamental remarks. It's hard to find them at all, if you're not interested directly. The concept and content of these laws is similar to the same or similar laws in the EU, but when it comes to investment funds they were alternative or open to talk about the essence, what affects law enforcement, control, regulation, control, and even I am free to say the favors of the political elite of these funds. The funds themselves are neither good nor bad, but if they are poorly controlled then they can harm both society and the state and investors, or citizens, because the funds deal with speculation. It is speculative capital, and that capital when it is its purpose, when it is without adequate control of the destruction. Just remember the examples of funds in Spain, funds in Portugal, and we're not talking about funds in Greece. South America is fueled by the good part thanks to the funds. The funds are not a problem or a small problem in the regulated states. The funds, more specifically their business, are not a problem in Germany from which we are, in order, by the functioning of the system, by supervision even further away from Mars. We must be aware of the fact that since 1.7.2013 this year, if Slovenia does not block us from entering the EU with the help of our invisible shy diplomacy, and by joining the EU, the funds will also be able to invest abroad. The money will also be given cross-border wings through funds without having to drink redbul. This crisis has taught us that at times when economies collapse, funds collapse. They do not fall or fall at least in these times of crisis and on these ski slopes only bonds because bonds have small but stable incomes. That's why smart people know what bonds are for. What does all this have to do with these two laws? I don't know. I repeat it in control, in the system, and in the character of the state. Just remember that some of our funds support the state's money, nothing for the state and everything for themselves. Various quaesques are emerging and the state's land register. Yeah, I'm skeptical when it comes to speculative investments. After all, the most serious economists, including those selling mists that every night in the pub, the space of public television as economic analysts, and professional economic analysts, giving lessons to the Croatian government, whether the government is left or right, are actually just bank propagators and various speculative funds. They say the world will not extract from the crisis from the financial sector but rather healthy innovation and production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27046	Thank you. The Republic has a colleague, Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27047	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a colleague, Vuksic, you said exactly that the essence is being monitored, and so I'm going to repeat the question once again if the essence is being monitored, and that should be the role of the state through the agency, then why in Article 274 is transferring that authority to the privateer and that the privateer will oversee the privates and then what is the role of the state. I mean, we're all for the free market, but there's one part of the country right now in this supervisory sense, maybe we should ask it to HANFA, or the president of the administration, or right now, after the new secretary or secretary-general, but it seems to me that we no longer have the possibility that HANFA will answer to the Parliament and that the Parliament can ask such questions rather than answer exclusively to the executive authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27048	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27049	Dear fellow Stier, I agree with you. That would be control, control. It should be the role of the state. I was just talking about it when the state lets the funds control themselves to regulate themselves and when they pass laws and raise their hands out of everything, then what I was just saying is what happened to some European countries, what happened in some European countries, what happened in South America, and that just means that this government is not ready to deal with the problems ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27050	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. HDSSB club and colleague Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27051	Thank you very much, Vice President. Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have two draft laws, a draft law on open-end investment funds with a public offering and a proposal for a law on alternative investment funds. As we have heard in previous club presentations, this is our European obligation, therefore, to comply with the directives and decisions of the EU Council of Parliament and the EU Directive to be implemented in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. In these proposals, the Republic of Croatia is already treated as a member of the EU because the law will take effect on the day of Croatia's full membership in the EU, which is 1st of July if everything is okay as we see problems with Slovenia 1.7.2013. We sincerely hope that there will be no obstacle, no misunderstanding with Slovenia because it is much more important and important interests for the Republic of Croatia and we expect that everything will be fine on this issue. These new laws, as they are in line with the EU directive, raise a number of issues. We have heard whether it is necessary for our laws to be given that we will only become a new member, that our laws be regulatoryly stricter than those in the EU and that it is really necessary that these two proposals are implemented in this and in this context. We adapt them... The EU, we see that this fund-based investment rule has been present since 1985, and there is a great tradition here. We are a new member of the EU although our '95 legislation is present in Croatia, we can say that this is only beginning to develop after 2005 and today is managed by a market that is worth approximately EUR 13 billion in the fund capital. There are a number of questions to be raised so that we do not repeat ourselves with problems raised by colleagues. Another very important question remains here, what will happen when the market is fully opened, the fund market, the EU market, what will happen to those small funds that have less capital than large? Will they compete with those large banks and foreign banks of the EU, and will these funds that do not have enough funds and have less room to manage disappear from the Croatian market? Are these dangers that are being opened on the day of EU entry, and will it be a fight against the big players against the small ones? So we should keep this investment fund industry in Croatia on the day of Croatia's entry into the EU. How our capital opens to... The EU will also open capital to full EU members in the Republic of Croatia. So that is what is equal and full of our membership. Whether it is a danger to our investment funds or not, it will show the date of Croatia's entry into the EU. We hope, however, that this regulation similar to that so far, only changes to those that funds are shared on investment funds opened with public offerings and alternative ones that are all other than those that fall into open investment funds with a public offering. So that fear exists. It's a huge financial market. We have seen that there have been problems with investment funds in Croatia so far, that all investment funds, although many of them have not been doing very well, some of them have had to buy shares in some Croatian banks in some investment funds and pay some prices of 2.3,000 euros, and today it is worth about a thousand euros, perhaps less. So there were problems, and it's not all so great on that market, and we don't have to expect some huge shifts. So there is always a risk on the market and there is a risk that those who invest that invested funds on that financial market can easily lose, and it is difficult to invest, and it is easy to lose that invested. So that's where the dangers open up. As far as the HDSSB club is concerned, then, with these fences that concern food, there must be a restriction such that these two laws are stricter than some EU directives and this open concern whether these "less" players will fail on the market by entering the EU or it will be different. This now depends on our status as new EU member states, as well as our proposals for legislation. As for therefore harmonisation and the need to comply with the EU Directive, the HDSB supports the adoption of these draft laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27052	Thank you very much. Davor Ivo Stier has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27053	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here is my colleague Salapic. You have expressed the hope that I believe we all share that Croatia will indeed enter full membership on 1 July. Today we also heard some optimistic statements in the sense that it will be more or less agreed or that it is on a good path. You know what the problem is? that we heard a few months ago that we had agreed with Slovenia only that Ljubljana had not yet known. Well, here I hope this time we remembered to let the Slovenian government know that we had a deal and that everything would be fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27054	Reply to the replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27055	Dear fellow Stier it would really be if it were so stupid that it was true. We have done a lot on this journey of Croatia to the EU, there is a lot of work and effort from 2004 to 2012 and this problem with Slovenia our Government should have made all the efforts to calm it down. It's not just a political problem, it's becoming both economic and financial because there are market instabilitys and there's a concern that everything that's been done is going down because of some bureaucratic problems. Our government should be able to solve this strictly because a lot has been done, and a lot can be lost with a little false steps and some stupid mistakes, and I sincerely hope the HDSSB club hopes it won't be so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27056	Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac's closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27057	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you for your discussion. Perhaps a single answer to fellow Stier who has asked this question about Article 274 and it is really about supervision of alternative investment funds and here was actually allowed by the Agency, means that in order to carry out specific tasks because you need to know that alternative investment funds have different types of funds... and especially on the European market that the regulator, especially in our case, does not have to and cannot have experts on each particular area, especially if we are talking about... funds or some special specialised funds such as these alternative investment funds and let's say the more developed ones that exist on the foreign market. So here you're just giving the regulator a chance to actually give them an expert opinion, help them make decisions if there are certain problems, means better supervision of these particular societies. So this is not about giving a private person but actually having an expert team on behalf of the agency can actually carry out expert, expert supervision if the agency does not have expert people to analyze different than I said... funds that are extremely specific, where there are no experts in the Republic of Croatia for that area to and cover this area. There was also talk about rigidity here, so here we can determine for ourselves how much government actually allows certain areas, but there is always that question in the financial sector as much as to be or not to be rigid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27058	Thank you very much. The debate on both proposals of the law is over. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27059	Final draft law on open-end investment funds with public offering, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 235. The debate is closed. The amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia have become an integral part of the final proposal. We can plead. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 88 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 24 votes are abstentions, the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offer in the text as proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27084	Moving to 3. Proposal for a Law on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 245 The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the motionary Deputy Minister of Finance Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27085	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The application of the Act on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles has become obsolete and is inappropriate for taxation of vehicles within the framework of the Single European Market, means duty-free barriers, i.e. non-compliant with the modern objectives and needs of vehicle taxation in the European Union and contrary to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the Republic of Croatia, under the applicable vehicle law, they are taxed on the basis of values with different approaches for new and used vehicles, and the environmental impact is not taxed, i.e. CO2 emissions. The European Union does not harmonise a specific vehicle tax, but provides a framework through a functioning contract and a case-law that Member States must adhere to. The new Directive on special vehicle taxation accepts the practice of the European Union on non-discrimination in the taxation of new and used vehicles and proposes the introduction of a combined taxation system based on a percentage of market price sales as a value criterion and the basis of a percentage of sales of the market price depending on CO2 emissions as an ecological criterion. The specific newspaper in this law is an ecological criterion in determining the final price of the vehicle. This measure is considered particularly important since, according to the European Commission, light vehicles are responsible for around 15% of carbon dioxide emissions in the European Union. Between 1990 and 2010, CO2 emissions in the EU have increased by almost 23% in the field of road transport, and believes that this figure would have been even higher if a recent economic crisis had not occurred. Transport is one major sector in the European Union where greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise. The introduction of carbon dioxide emissions into motor vehicle taxation is considered an important measure in order to achieve the European Commission's objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and meeting the European Union's commitments under the Kyoto Protocol. In order to reduce CO2 emissions for light vehicles, the European Parliament and the Council have adopted Regulation No. 443/2009. On 23 April 2009 establishing the standard emission values for new passenger cars in the context of an integrated community approach which sets out obligations for manufacturers selling motor vehicles in the European Union to gradually reduce carbon dioxide emissions in order to average 130 g/km by 2015 and by 2020 average 95 g/km for the fleet of new vehicles of each producer. The measures set out in that Regulation and the taxation system for CO2 emission criteria led to an average emissions of 135.7 g/km for new vehicles registered in the European Union in 2011 which is a reduction of 4.6 g/km or 3.3% compared to 2010. For comparison, according to the Croatian Vehicle Centre in the Republic of Croatia, in 2011, 21986 new petrol-powered vehicles with an average emission of 143.5 g/km, 39 new petrol-fuelled vehicles and ingested oil gas with an average emission of 180.64 g/km and 19658 new diesel vehicles with an average emission of 135.84 g/km were registered in 2011. If the weighted average of the above figures is taken into account, the average CO2 emissions of newly sold vehicles in the Republic of Croatia were 139,93 g/km which is 4.2 g/km above the average of the European Union or about 3% in 2011. According to some surveys, the share of newly registered vehicles on the Croatian market in 2011 looks like this. So up to 130 g/km, the share of new vehicles is about 36.6%, from 130 economies to 150 g/km of the market for new vehicles is about 41.3%, and over 150 g/km is 22.1%. With respect to the market situation and obligations of the Republic of Croatia to participate in reducing CO2 CO2 emissions in line with European recommendations, it has been approached to establish criteria that would lead to the desired objective. Thus, when establishing the rates for vehicles according to the ecological criterion, it was primarily taken into account that vehicles with low CO2 emissions are not subject to a specific carbon dioxide tax. Thus, it has been passed in law, so for motor vehicles that are used for the propulsion of diesel fuel and whose average carbon dioxide emissions are up to 85 grams per kilogram and motor vehicles that use gasoline and incinerated oil gas or natural gas whose average carbon dioxide emissions are up to 90 grams per km do not tax this eco-innovation. Then drive with an average consumption of 120 to 130 grams per kilogram of cheap compared to the average selling price while all vehicles would be below 120 grams per... It should have been worth a lot of money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This will make a price differentiation, and we believe that this measure sends the Government of the Republic of Croatia a clear message that it is worth driving eco-friendly motor vehicles. It is also our estimate that an increase in the rate of over 130 grams per km is the limit of uncontrollable inflows of used vehicles with high CO2 emissions and outdated technology. A measure which would also satisfy the improvement of the ecological criterion of the introduction of a specific post-export refund institute that is calculated in proportion to the specific tax paid and the amortisation of the vehicle. The subject of taxation, as so far for all vehicles, means other than those commercial vehicles and the news is that motorcycles are also introduced by this eco-innovation delivery and sanitary vehicles are not taxed, hybrid-powered vehicles are partially released depending on the percentage of power generation. The electric vehicles are not taxed, the vehicle camper pays 15% of the determined special tax, and the pic pile of double-cab vehicle is taxed. It is important to stress that there is also a change in the model of the calculation, where the new proposal accounts for a special tax from the selling market price in which VAT is included. It is not contrary to the EU Directive because it is a one-time or registration tax which cannot be included in the tax base for the calculation of VAT because it is a cost that is not the cost of a trader but is a taxpayer, i.e. the taxpayer is a citizen while the traders are only administering. The projections, in fact, this part where it was debated and it was actually agreed with the European Commission, so it is not and is not in conflict with the VAT Directive. To see, so the effect of this annual tax is somewhere around 560 million kuna. To see how broad the discussion meant, since 2 November, a proposal was held on the website, and over 50 consultations were held in the course of production and discussion with the Croatian Employers' Association, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, HAK, court experts, car manufacturers and customers, car default, Ministry of Interior, Bureau of Measurement, etc. The aim of the law is to make specific taxes on motor vehicles not exclusively fiscal but is, in fact, mainly ecological since it encourages the purchase of eco-acceptable low-carbon vehicles, which should be cheaped by applying this law to the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27086	Thank you. Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27087	I didn't mean to answer the line, but I heard Mr. Lalovec say one sentence that what's been so far is no longer in line with modern taxation. What is modern in Croatia for citizens? That's what someone would think when it's modern, then it's better for me, because a modern man. Modern in Croatia means paying as much as possible and paying as often as possible. Contemporaryly, it does not mean advanced unless it is a tax reduction for the average citizen. So now the question is whether we're going to pay more taxes or less taxes when we're going to register a car. It's nothing else for the citizens. We'll pay more as a rule. So the car becomes a luxury. And you mentioned Mr. Lalovec the same new expression, I mean not a new expression, an old expression a new model. And the new model, when you say a new model of taxation, that means you'll pay more citizens. It's a modern, modern and new model for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27088	The reply to the replica of the Deputy Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27089	Thank you, Madam Vice President. When we talked about modern taxation, we talked about a model that has not been present in Croatia so far. So, by introducing an ecological tax, environmental rent in having to have such an incentive to actually have a much wider context than just that tax-speaking relationship. Because in this sense, when we talk about this way of taxation, it actually changes these certain trends and affects our environment in which we live. In this context, it is actually a much broader context than just that of taxation itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27090	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the SDP club Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27091	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Honored Director of the Customs Administration, colleagues and colleagues. We have a law that has an E mark, which is in line with the EU, but it is except that it has an E and a European law, it is absolutely Croatian law, not because we bring it here in the Croatian Parliament, but first of all, the Croatian law is based on almost all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because there is almost no family in Croatia at least when it is viewed as not being referred to because almost every Croatian family or on average has one car or more. Therefore, this law that tangs all our citizens. I say, citizens not so many economies because economic vehicles are exempt from paying this particular tax on motor vehicles. So for them, it is neutral, or rather positive, because it does not burden them. And in that sense, this law also has an economic function. But the citizens are very much concerned. We need a car, but often times it's not just a need, it's more than a need. With the need, it is often a question or a hobby, prestige, etc. so those who experience the car as a hobby or as a prestige are mostly those who buy more expensive cars to see how he drives a good car he will pay more. And that's okay. We have so far had a special car tax, but he respected only one criterion and that was the value of the vehicle. The paper in this law is in this sense and in this work and harmonising it with the acquired European Union, which is that it respects both environmental principles and respects the fact that the car is CO2 per kilometre and those who are more polluting the environment will pay more tax specific taxes. This law derivates so far the criteria and that is that the car that is more expensive to pay no more taxes, however, but it is not only an exclusive criterion but it still respects it in a way that someone who buys a car up to 100,000 kunas of value, does not pay or tax rate is zero and the one who buys for example. A car over 500 grand and only one who has a little more money, who's a little richer, well, he's going to pay 70 thousand kuna on that particular tax basis. As far as CO2 emissions are concerned, it's a newspaper in this law and in this sense this law is also ecological because in some ways this one sanctions or penalizes those cars that have high consumption and that have a large carbon dioxide emission and we see here from the table in this law that for example. A car with a emission of up to 130 grams of CO2 per km, which is the EU average on the value of a car, will be calculated for a specific 7% tax, but one that has a very large or extremely large emission, for example. Over 300 grams of CO2 per km will pay at 30%. This is therefore what it wants to do to make today's roads become less carbon monoxide, but in this part of it again, it is also socially fair because those who generally have greater CO2 emissions are generally stronger engines and more expensive cars. What is also a newspaper in this law compared to the existing one, is that both new and used cars are treated equally as regards the specific tax. So far, used cars have been discriminated against in a certain way, i.e. the specific tax on used cars was 50% higher than for new cars when it comes to the same value. Some question this and say it will now open up a large space for the rush of used cars from Europe to Croatia, that we will become a cemetery of used cars. I don't think that's true, but on the contrary. We can even talk about absurdity. Almost no one drives a new car this way as the law treats it. The new car was only the one that wasn't on the road until then and wasn't registered until then. It's just that when you register it, it gets out on the road when it's a day and I don't say a month or a year, it's not a new car, and if that's the kind of car you get or drive, it's not a new car, it's a used car. Now I'm wondering if a car that's a year old is a bad car in any security sense, but a car is the same one that gets out of the tape today, it's only a year younger, it's a good car, and people sure as hell won't buy cars that have a big CO2 emissions, so basically pay a big tax on a special tax because it won't pay them back. So, apart from being even in the sense that he's not being discriminated he's actually going to go to our citizens because it's known who's doing the car market and not every one of us has to buy cars and everyone's had that opportunity, so he probably knows that it's the best and most economical to buy a car between the years and three years old. At that time his market value fell very much and his actual technical and useful value did not fall so much. Therefore, why not allow our citizens not to have to buy a new car from any factory in Europe but a year old and that it is 30% cheaper and is therefore not penalized, and this law does just that because it is not a bad car. It has the same CO2 emissions that are now being produced, which now comes as n these because it's the same type of car just because it's a year older because it's known that in the automotive industry, motors don't change so fast. Engines change with a new line and as long as the same line is produced the same CO2 emissions regardless of whether that car came out today or was two or three or four years old. Surely this law will not make the Croatian cemetery of used cars, but all cars must pass... Technical examination, therefore must have confirmation of... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] have a technical checkup, have to be correct and people won't be stimulated to buy cars that have a large CO2 emissions, and usually have cars that have a high age. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, taking into account all the certainty that this law is based on the existing improvement because it has a number of dimensions, so it does, in addition to the fiscal which, of course, every tax law has, unlike the laws in force so far, also has this ecological function that it did not have, it also has its own economic function because it treats personal cars for personal use differently, it treats those in function economically in the economic sense of this business. So they're not taxable and eventually he's just in terms of social justice because those cars that have bigger engines, stronger engines and which are more expensive is a higher rate, so it's a progressive rate and it's okay for those who want a more expensive, bigger and stronger car to pay more, and the one who can't afford to pay less. In that sense, I think this law is good and the SDP club will absolutely support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27092	Thank you. HDSSB club and counterpart Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27093	Thank you. Here's Madam Vice President of the Parliament, the representatives of the proposings, MPs and MPs, I don't know unlike the predecessors of Mr. Jelusic's legendary Ford said when they asked him which was the best car he said was a new car, he didn't say a year, two or three, but it's already a matter of optics that someone had about cars. There's something else I'd like to add to this proposal right now. I know that people who work at the Ministry of Finance have a lot of jobs and a lot of obligations and deal with various areas, so maybe they're not that much, so they don't follow the movements around the auto industry, or maybe they don't like the special cars and they don't care about the general cars, so here's a proposing representative, maybe he's not too interested in the car problem, so maybe here I'll be so immodest to get a little closer to the car problem and what's going on in the Republic of Croatia in the last few years, as the promoter probably knows the sale of new cars in the Republic of Croatia after about 5, 6 years ago, reaching a value of over 80 thousand and going towards the number of 100 thousand new cars sold in 2011 according to the available data was about 43,000, according to the available data, with a trend of further sales this year. And we have come close to the number of new cars sold to numbers that have never actually been recorded in this area since the Croatian state, so that is also a certain indicator of the crisis for sure, but also a certain indicator and problems in which we are also the cost of costing these cars. Of course, the Croatian city, regardless of the fact that the Republic of Croatia is according to what is heard, see and learn about the only European Union country that will not have the production of cars allegedly all these 27 have such or such, and the Republic of Croatia will be the only one who will not have it. Regardless of this, Croatian citizens do not have other traffic, to the most extent they drive cars, goods are transported to the most extent by trucks, they are still transported to other transports that consume fuel and pollute air, hence the car as more or less the primary human needs today, the average family we cannot escape, and as in many other issues we can ask ourselves as a subject of what we want as a society or what the state in the form of this proposed by the Ministry of Finance actually wants to do about these cars. Now, here, as some mantra as is already happening often mentions CO2 emissions, carbon dioxide emissions measured in grams per mile. This emissions of CO2 and de facto certain fuel consumption equivalent is a car, only translated depending on some depreciation systems and the like, so this CO2 emissions actually speaks of how much the car spends, to simplify the concepts and, of course, those cars that spend less fuel have less CO2 emissions, those cars that spend more, those who don't have certain filters even more, but actually that CO2 emissions is a certain equivalent. Now in today's time when a very modern ecology is like this very much today is a profitable science, car manufacturers are in a position to establish certain car parts that they must produce with relatively low CO2 emissions and now the story of CO2 is being created, but where is the problem for Croatian citizens. The problem is a total problem for Croatian citizens in a rule like this, which will actually collect car prices first, whose cars, and those cars that are usually driven by Croatian citizens, which are vehicles, etc. Compact class, or golf class. So Croatian citizens, as a rule, and the Croatian family cannot fit into one vehicle that has two doors and two seats and has 750 cubic centimeters, in order to meet maybe an 80-gm exhaust gas standard per km, and that would make it really cheaper. So there is also a register of all vehicles in the Republic of Croatia publicly available to all, issued by the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia in that register, you can see what vehicles these are today that will meet the diesel fuel standard to have a emission of less than 86 grams of CO2 per km. As far as I know, these vehicles do not exist in the Republic of Croatia at all, and I would ask the promoter to deny me and list 10 cars currently in sale in the Republic of Croatia diesel that have a CO2 emissions of less than 86 grams per km. When it comes to petrol vehicles of this particular tax, petrol vehicles with CO2 emissions of less than 90 grams per km will be released, but if these vehicles are not available or there are 7, 8 shares of them in the sale amounting to some zeros, I don't know how much, these are small-scale vehicles with a cubicity of 700, 800 cubic metres, there are several, they have start-up systems, these vehicles can't be the backbone of our understanding of ecologicality or the reduction of exhaust emissions and our relationship that we, in a different way, will be set to turn to Croatian citizens, so I will remind myself of some examples of the available data from the European Union, no one thought in the European Union that the limit for non-taxation of harmful gas emissions on these values set up by the Croatian Government, and please let the applicant deny me if I am wrong. Therefore, in the Federal Republic of Germany for CO2-valued categories, it was worth not to tax less than 120 grams per km from 2010 to 2011, less than 110 grams per km for the period 2012 to 2013 and from 2014 it will be worth the norm not to tax vehicles with less than 95 grams per km in 2014, and already in 2013, we set criteria that are completely inaccessible. It is not only the Federal Republic of Germany, when there was an economic crisis in the European Union several years ago, when they set out to encourage the sale of vehicles in their home countries and thus to encourage their production, all subsidies were also to the extent that carbon dioxide was produced according to consumer kilometre and all for some norms from 120 to 130 grams. Row 100, 200, 500, 800, 1000 euros depending on the state and depending on the interest it had. But none of them were based on a measure below 90 grams per kilometre of carbon dioxide for petrol... is that what I'm saying in practice means that this vehicle has 700 and some cubes, the system is old. Stop, it's 700, 800kg and it's driving a light passenger who's going to run a test on that vehicle. So we also have a problem, and what we don't do is interesting according to estimates is also people who deal with traffic estimates about 25% of the production of emissions in traffic up to 30 products heavy vehicles, economic vehicles, trucks, buses, transport vehicles. Well, that's not interesting to us. And these vehicles with huge emissions, with the processing of more environmentally-acceptable fuels, can make a significantly greater shift in emissions reduction than these constant pressures on the citizens themselves and finally through the price because the family cannot drive in a vehicle that has an emissions of 80 grams per kilogram. If you're going to answer that this is about moving an electric vehicle, I'm going to remind you that electric-powered vehicles are being successfully sold around the world and no one buys them except for a bit of hybrids. And the hybrids that are selling have a show of about 85, 90, 95. And electric vehicles reportedly last year in the U.S., I don't know how many cars sold in the U.S., sold a thousand and some electric cars in the United Kingdom as much. So these vehicles don't pass, so it's not the backbone of development or the development of traffic or anything on which we can base our legislation. So electric vehicles don't pass, they're too expensive, there's no built network ecologically due to problems with the disposal of those batteries are also problematic and it's not at all what anyone is seriously based on today any development of traffic in their country. And we have another problem like the Republic of Croatia, this Mr. Jelusic mentioned, the problem of the vehicle in which the LPG or propan-butan are built in. Propan-butane as a waste product of our refineries in oil processing, as you know in the Republic of Croatia very often cost in retail much more than this same INA that has these two refineries selling to neighbouring countries, that propan-butane according to the interpretation that we have received on one of the parliamentary issues of the previous Environment Minister Mirela Holy from her response resulted, her response, her ministry at the time when she was a minister that these vehicles had more CO2 emissions. I tried to find some relevant information about whether LPG vehicles have a really larger CO2 emissions and I didn't find it but I encountered data that vehicles on LPG except for less emissions and other harmful gases have a smaller CO2 emissions by about 10%. The problem in the Republic of Croatia is that it is not possible to measure the emissions of vehicles going to LPG and that these vehicles cannot be registered with an installation that is being installed, so the vehicle purchased as a petrol must first register, make all the documentation and traffic and then go back to the installation of LPG and to the new registration including the construction and new documents. And even if you're in a vehicle that has zero kilometers you're installing a LIG installation you're actually doing it de facto only after you've taken over and registered the whole vehicle, which is like this nonsensus but isn't the only one in the Republic. Therefore, it may be necessary to see what is happening to this LPG and whether it can be taken into account as, say, vehicles driving on that propan-butan or LPG. Therefore, if we want to be fair and fair to citizens, these special tax standards relating to emissions of harmful gases should be put at least to the level of some class compact, which is emissions for diesel vehicles about 100, 115 grams per kilometre and for petrol vehicles also 100, 115, 110, 115 grams per kilometre, everything else actually just means extra and extensive taxation of all vehicles. So let's just say we want to tax, and let's not put in any funny items that actually don't exist in real vehicles. Therefore, we as a HDSSB club, such a bill which, of course, we are not as a state that we should encourage vehicle production, but in this difficult economic situation, this tax proposal will in fact only be an additional burden to citizens who buy new vehicles or buy used vehicles, so we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27094	Thank you. Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27095	Dear colleague Djurović, first of all, I really thank you because I learned a lot about cars, although you are a doctor and thank you very much. You said in one sentence that the criteria for Croatian citizens are completely incomprehensible, as if they were within reach or incomprehensible criteria. The Germans said you were protecting your citizens, giving them time to gradually replace their cars, as technology progresses so they wait for their citizens to also change cars that they don't have to change cars after a year. Are the criteria and goals within reach? That's an important question. Yes, as I said before, the goal is to get as much money as possible from those who have the least that tax should not be taxed on those whom the taxes we speak of are ridiculous. That you don't want to add to this actually to make a new tax and that's the goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27096	The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27097	Yeah, thanks. No matter what I'm a surgeon, I love cars, and I love cars, and that's why I know about cars because I love cars, and I'm interested. The fact is, I just wanted to demystify these terms of these grams where they're talking about environmentally acceptable vehicles that won't be taxed. I just wanted to highlight the fact that these vehicles are not available in the Republic of Croatia at the moment, i.e. they represent a practically insignificant share of the sale because these standards set so high that they are flights that at the moment the production of vehicles does not reach and that if we want to help citizens to have better and better quality cars, then some norm should be the compact of the class that most citizens use and standards at the end which are beneficial in most European countries, not that we are more pop than the pope that often happens in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27098	Thank you. HDZ club and colleague Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27099	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, as was actually said at the very beginning, the existing system of taxation of motor vehicles can either be marked by an outdated or another way of saying that it is not in line with the legal property of the European Union, so I guess that is why we have this law before us today. However, what seems important to me at the outset is the obvious fact that we do not have a car industry and therefore these certain examinations in taxation that have countries where cars are produced in our territory do not come into expression and that is why this system of taxation is changed and so late because it was actually arranged to detimise the imports of used vehicles into the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The logic of this argument was that through the detimulation of imports of used vehicles will ensure that on Croatian roads newer and more secure vehicles, I guess. Indirectly, this CO2 criterion was met, but no such argument was accepted by the commission. We therefore have this new taxation system and, of course, the most debates and attentions are attracted to the very table in which the values and the corresponding tax rates to be applied to those classes are defined. What is the first practical question that arises from these values and tax rates is, in fact, the fact of what the fiscal effect will be, is this change that is motivated to some extent by extreme factors, whether it is going towards an increase in tax burden, whether it remains the same or perhaps decreases. This question cannot be answered because the tax administration did not make an effort to contribute, even if some illustrating calculation for some type of vehicle. And on the other hand, it's hard without knowing all the details and structure of the price actually to make some unprofessional comparison and comparison. That is why, although our laws and rules of work in the Croatian Parliament require that each law has a fiscal impact assessment and that the funds will bring or will not bring or subtract from the state budget, there is no such thing here. So we cannot judge the fiscal effects of this law on the basis of its impact on the state budget, and the fiscal year is ongoing and it will take effect on the day of entry, which will have an undisputed impact on the fiscal situation. Therefore, in this part, the law is flawed and cannot be actually assessed as to what these proposed tax rates mean, whether they mean an increase in the burden or its retention to the same extent or possible reduction. On the other hand, these classes, which are defined in terms of carbon dioxide emissions per km, actually ask an interesting question, at least it was interesting to me in some way, which kind of popular car brands please these classes because the whole text and the spirit of the law goes for those cars that emit a little carbon dioxide to be less taxed. I was particularly interested in whether or not there was one that broadcasts up to 100 g/km. I found barely one that broadcasts 99 miles per km, it's a very small car. All others also very small and very modest essentially enter the class between 110 and 120 g/kg. So very small, very cheap price categories essentially enter the context of the 3.5% rate. So it seems to me that by actually thinking about these classes, he didn't really schedule them well if he wanted to stimulate the purchase of a smaller car because even a smaller show on small cars gets into a relatively high class. On the other hand, there are also very expensive cars that also enter the class 3.5%. So somehow I tried to check whether this table could even some of these, other than some of these fiscal criteria, manage to reach some of the criteria of justice in determining these tax rates. I'm not sure that's what really worked out. But as I say, what is the ultimate effect for individual customers, which is the final effect for citizens cannot be known and cannot be estimated. What bothers us, in this context, and most of all in the Croatian Democratic Community club, is the 7th article in the 12th article that says that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will change the numerical indicators in these tables. The possibility of the government changing the level of tax burden by regulations exists in some other types of excise duties. Like oil derivatives or cigarettes. However, the reason and reason why the Parliament gave the Government the right to change the tax burden itself in these types of excise duties is in fact the need to comply with the European Union in the case of cigarettes, i.e. in the case of oil derivatives, reacting to strong oscillation of oil prices on the market. These two reasons have been assessed even then, and this is clearly the government's view and today there are enough reasons to transfer to the government the original power of the Parliament to determine the tax burden. However, in the case of motor vehicles, I do not think there is any reason, no urgency of any disturbance on the market, any harmonisation with the Union, because, in terms of the level of the tax burden, the Union does not prescribe that this authority be transferred to the Government and that the change of the tax burden in this sphere takes place without debate in the Assembly, therefore in one relatively quiet and possibly undetectable manner. We therefore believe that this right passed on to the Government is not appropriate to this type of tax, nor is it appropriate to the circumstances and that this law does not need to do so. That is why, precisely because of the fact that these powers are taken away from the Parliament, regardless of what we understand that compliance with the Union and the issues of taxation are in line with the emissions and the use of taxes in achieving the environmental objectives of the Croatian Democratic Community will not support these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27100	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Four replicas to your exposure. The first one is Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27101	Dear Madam Vice President, therefore, I must agree with you, with your findings, that there is no reason to argue, so I would even say this is an urgent matter. This could have been the time to go in two readings, and especially not that in this way once again by the current government not only underestimates but the government gives itself powers that neither according to the Constitution nor defies the role of the Croatian Parliament in parliamentary democracy. There are exactly what is prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and only in exceptional cases should the Government take over what it could do without the knowledge of the Croatian Parliament. But I'd like to point out something special about this law. So you've pointed to a few illogicalities, too. Is the justification of the legislator of this law any way that he wants to encourage the purchase of eco-acceptable vehicles. That was basic thesis. And then on the other hand, we have a few things that we can read from this bill as minuses. The first difference compared to the old law is that the tax base is changing, because for new vehicles, the tax base is a retail price in which VAT is included, and in some ways now we have double taxation. Taxes are also paid on VAT. The VAT was not included in the previous law. The amendments to this law do not distinguish between the use of new vehicles in the end, and this was nevertheless established in the old law. We should have gone to the regular procedure and probably found some better solution, and the finding that this is to encourage the purchase of environmentally acceptable vehicles I think my colleague Djurovic's discussion best showed that this is not really going to be the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27102	Thank you. Next replica Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27103	You tell your colleagues that this bill does not know whether there will be an increase or a reduction in taxes. However, the meaning of this law, regardless of its title, is not at all fiscal, or is not primarily fiscal. He is, above all, of such a nature that he wants to contribute to the protection of the environment. Therefore, it is also important here to change our behaviour that environmental protection is not just a matter of one resolution, it is not even an economic issue or not just a social problem and a question, it is primarily a matter of morality today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27104	Replic response, Martina Dalic
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27105	Well, I don't agree with you esteemed colleagues because we live in reality and in this reality in the State budget that applies, certain revenues from the special tax on importing cars are also foreseen. So some amount was planned by the Ministry of Finance. It is therefore also important to know from one practical point of view whether the amount planned in the state budget can also be realised by this law. And from the point of view of an ordinary citizen, so I think he's interested in whether cars will collect for this, whether the price remains the same, or maybe it'll be cheap. So by respecting all these arguments that you said and the need to preserve the environment, I think these issues are also important.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27106	Thank you. Drazen Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27107	Dear colleagues, I would only say on your remark that there are no vehicles available on the market that would meet the conditions of this being up to 110 or 120 grams of CO2. a mile away. I once quickly found a lower middle class vehicle that therefore met the condition of up to 110 grams of CO2 per mile, the only one that met the condition of up to 120 grams of CO2 per mile. So there are those vehicles that are available on the market and which therefore belong to normal vehicles which are essentially the largest market share in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27108	Last line, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27109	Here's my dear colleague, you've raised your doubts saying that you don't know what's going to happen by introducing this law, whether it's going to collect something, or if it's going to cost you something, so I'm going to settle that doubt for you right now, it's going to collect. Lucky for the Prime Minister that this Kukuriku coalition has imposed only one single imposition, and that's the 25% VAT. This is an ecological burden, an ecological imposition that applies to and on the basis of which VAT is included, so it's a tax tax. And let us now put aside a little bit of environmentalism, etc., rather than let the citizens know that they will now pay more expensive taxes on motor vehicles and not to us or to the government, the Kukurik Coalition on the mind protection of our planet Earth's Croatian environment, but apparently filling the budget with such a special sales tax by motor vehicle. There are no grams of CO2 but there are kunas and eures Mrs. Ingrid, say it clearly and loudly, and let's not talk about protecting planet Earth and playing superman because you're not a superman, but this is again a new hack and a new blow to the pocket of Croatian workers, peasants and ordinary citizens who may not be driving that expensive BMW that Sanader bought or didn't drive in those rented cars I don't know which class, lexus, but they're still driving the flag, south etc. Or they're driving these Koreans. It's a hit on the pocket of Croatian citizens, tax taxes. The citizens are also being given an eco-indulgence. That's it. It's like that chef from good morning Croatian. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27110	HNS Club and Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27111	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister with colleagues, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support the adoption of this law because it is primarily ecological and then fiscal as already said. We do not, of course, doubt that this debate at this plenary session and even these incursions as it makes sense to this Parliament, but in fact this law is not only a harmonisation with the EU but a law that promotes and ecology so that I go a little further who goes in the direction of what is called a healthy life, but also in this way instructing citizens to buy vehicles to buy in ways that are ecologically, to think about themselves, about their children, about the future directly and specifically. On behalf of the HNS Club, I will highlight a few of the facts already already mentioned on this law that we will both clearly and clearly show to our citizens and citizens exactly what it is specifically about and why it is essential and ecological. So, as already said, the applicable law on special taxes on personal cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, and to a significant extent, and contrary to the principles of the EU's functioning contracts and certain directives. One of the fundamental features in motor vehicle taxation systems in the EU Member States which are largely different and depends on various factors such as domestic production and the other which we unfortunately do not have is essentially carbon dioxide emissions, as we like to say CO2 expressed in grams per kilometre, which in some countries is the only criterion for taxation. Accordingly, in addition to the law on specific taxation on motor vehicles, it is proposed to introduce a combined taxation system which would establish a specific tax as a value criterion of a percentage of the sales price, i.e. the market price, depending on CO2 emissions, as a true ecological criterion. In order to achieve the objectives of the HNS, we would like to point out once again with the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions in the Republic of Croatia, it is proposed that vehicles with low CO2 emissions are freed from paying specific taxes according to this criterion, so let's not talk about the accumulations when it is absolutely clear here that what is called eco-fuels is stimulated, so that on motor vehicles that use diesel fuel for propulsion and whose average carbon dioxide emissions are up to a maximum of 85 grams per kilometre and motor vehicles that use gas gas or natural gas and whose average carbon dioxide emissions are up to a maximum of 90 grams per kilometre would not pay a special tax based on carbon dioxide emissions. It was also accounted for so that the law is comprehensive in the case of hybrid electric vehicles that have their own calculation, and of course they are also excluded from, i.e. they were exempt from paying taxes specifically on motor vehicles, electric vehicles. Here we witness the fact that in Croatia it is soon beginning to produce this type of vehicle. Of course, according to the proposal of this Act on Special Taxation on Motor Vehicles, taxation of those motor vehicles which are originally and exclusively intended to carry out an economic activity which is essentially not burdensome by the economy. The Institute of Returns of Special Taxes, which is absolutely good, is a further taxpayer who becomes a buyer of a motor vehicle, i.e. the person to whom the registration will be taken care not to be able to perform this registration without proof of paid special tax, is also proposed that in the case of purchase of new vehicles in the Republic of Croatia the trader, i.e. the distributor, performs the accounting and payment of the specific tax on motor vehicles on behalf of and for the account of the buyer, and of course, the tax administration is responsible to keep absolutely all the records. What is good under this law is equally independent of course of what I said in the first order that it is environmental law, that this law is sufficient and comprehensive in that it also defines specific cases which are possible for the illegal use of motor vehicles in the Republic of Croatia in terms of the use of ownership and the actual or legal availability of motor vehicles in which in the Republic of Croatia is not regulated or paid tax on motor vehicles and prescribed criminal penalties for such conduct, and, of course, as with other taxes, there are cases that are excluded and these are diplomatic and consular representations, international organisations and obligations arising from international contracts and, as with other tax laws. So what's crucial is environmental vehicles with low CO2 emissions are the ones that want to stimulate and direct citizens, and of course let's not forget this is one of the laws that is both educational and stimulating for citizens to finally start living and acting ecologically not only in the vehicle. So the Croatian People's Party club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27112	Thank you, colleague Gjurkovic. Club of Croatian Labourists – Labour parties and colleagues Mladen Novak. We didn't notice, Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27113	Dear fellow Gjurkovic, therefore, since I have a personal car I know very well what system has been applied so far and what tax I have paid. It will not affect, this is about a special tax, so it is about a new burden for Croatian citizens. It was an excuse to protect the globe, protect the Croatian environment, Croatian air etc., I would like this Croatian government with such a gleam, with enthusiasm to solve the protection of Croatia and the Croatian environment primarily by solving the refinery in the Bosnian Ship, however, this problem is not solved, and there is far greater CO2 emissions and even CO carbon monoxide and sulfur dioxide, etc. and all other harmful gases than that produced by all registered cars and unregistered in the Republic of Croatia and even agricultural machines such as tractors, were those from socialism or those from America. So let's say, once again, let's say that it's a new tax for citizens, a new burden on citizens, and it's particularly charming that this particular tax on motor vehicles will be taxed, including the base and the value added tax, so that you will pay twice practically VAT, and it will not affect the cost of not knowing what kind of car, but you will have a psoeban tax that will pay the final customer, or citizen, and these certain concessions for the delivery of pizzas etc. I think it is so negligible that in the extreme line it will not help the Croatian economy, and I have a special proposal, I agree that the tax on stupidity should also be introduced, only the measuring instrument should be introduced, and that would be very good for some.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27114	Thank you. Reply to the replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27115	My dear colleague, I must repeat once again, so in order to achieve the objectives of reducing carbon dioxide emissions in the Republic of Croatia, it is proposed that low-carbon vehicles be released from paying a special tax, where there is a new burden on citizens. In addition, commercial vehicles serving in service shall not be subject to this law either. Therefore, you buy me into spaghetti and reality is what it is that those who have a small show don't do this and we can actually say ecologically that they live, that they are stimulated and that they are educated.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27116	Thank you. Club of Croatian Labour-Stranke Work and Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27117	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy Associates. At first, I think that the Government, or the Proposer, should also think about the kind of improvement of this law in such a way as not to be a taxpayer only to buy a vehicle but to be all adult persons in the Republic of Croatia, but then certainly no one will be able to avoid this tax. The fact is that we can fool ourselves and say that this is ecological, the purpose of this tax is environmental protection, but obviously as soon as there is no car or we have a few copies, Col. Djurovic mentioned that there are about a dozen copies throughout Croatia, meaning that the conditions that are unfulfilled have been set. You have a chance to run with Ben Johnson at 100m but you'll never beat him, but you have a chance. So this is your chance to have a car that's gonna be untaxable, and the only problem is that it's gone, it's not on the market, it's got... Among other things, in order to wrap up a whole-of-the-art desire, which is to tax as many citizens as possible, and the number of citizens is listed in the context of the proposal, and I think even the Deputy Minister said in his opening statement that the law is put into emergency procedure to comply with EU rules. However, in the opening part of the assessment of the situation, it is concluded that there is no single European practice and even that the maltenes have their own way of solving and that nowhere is it prescribed in what way it should be. So compliance with EU regulations doesn't hold water. I think if I'm not mistaken, my colleague Buric mentioned another problem, or news, it's that it's a new tax base. So now we pay taxes, which is news. And that's probably the same with the goal of the ecosystem, it's now ecological, because that tax has been cleared because you pay it twice, two filters. Someone mentioned I think the representative of the SDP club was in the first part when he spoke on behalf of the club that it was a progressive tax rate, which means it was social justice. We can say that social justice is now taxed and Pickup vehicles that are generally more expensive vehicles, not usually but more expensive vehicles, usually used by people in our country, but it is interesting that in this social justice, taxes are freed from airplanes and vessels, or aircraft owners and vessels. Well, that's probably the same thing as environmental but what someone said from the SDP is socially fair. Does the promoter have any consciousness, time and moment where we live? Are you aware that the car hasn't been a luxury long ago that it's a need? Are you aware that even most of the 370 unemployed have a car, has to take the child to a doctor, has to take the sick parents but won't be able to anymore because they'll be forced to sell the car, but they won't even have to sell it to anyone. Unfortunately, we're just pretending ourselves that we're not aware of the situation where we live. A fellow Djurovic gave me another idea when in his speech, which was really one of the top inspired speeches, trucks and buses were freed from this tax. Today, Minister Doncic mentioned that we haven't had a traffic policy in a long time, but now we're going to have one. If it's really the Ministry's intention, or the entire government, so I suggest he do something about it, so let's say one part of the traffic shifts to this famous railroad that has a perspective on the minister, and the perspective is black and that's perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27118	I don't know if you've heard from your colleague Vuljanic or not. Dinko Buric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27119	You asked a respected colleague if they were aware of what they were doing with this. Well, they're not aware. Not only because of today's law, but also because of all the moves that the current political authority in the Republic of Croatia is leading such a policy that Croatian citizens will eventually be happy that you can also ride a bike. Lead us towards being happy to be like the Chinese about 15 or 20 years ago. And when it comes to this particular new tax base, it's true, that's why it's called a special tax on motor vehicles. And it could rarely have occurred to the fact that it fell to the representatives of our government to hit the VAT tax, so that VAT is now added to the basics and then to that tax, and we remember even now they're still fooling us, not just us, but all Croatian citizens that this law will not hit on the citizens' pocket, but that everything will be even cheaper. As they assured us that when they raised the VAT from 23% to 25%, it would not affect the standard of living of citizens, so here's what we have behind it. And today, in the current hour, the Prime Minister has said several times we have not introduced any new accusations, no, only those who have put a noose around the neck and brought them to a vast majority, on the edge and below the edge of poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27120	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27121	Thank you very much. Oh, frankly, my colleague Buric, listening to you, listening to all the colleagues who spoke out of opposition today about this law, I asked myself a question. It comes to me simply, it doesn't come to me, but I almost feel sorry for parliamentary representatives from the ruling majority when they have to advocate and defend something like this, and they're aware that it's not essentially what they have to say it is. Worst time you have to lie to yourself and tell yourself and look at it, but it's really environmental. But this has nothing to do with environmental science, this is real. I understand those who are eco-aware above average, but I greatly appreciate them, but the fact is, if someone tells you tomorrow they're all driving a car that doesn't spend a drop of gasoline, otherwise they'll pay taxes, you have a chance not to pay taxes, only that kind of car doesn't exist. But now it's an agent's task, so please explain that what's black isn't black after all. Yeah, maybe it's really, really, really gray, really dark gray, so maybe you can explain yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27122	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one's a colleague of Mirela Holly's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27123	Thank you, Vice President. So I must say that I am quite surprised with today's debate because I would expect MPs and MPs in this House to support a law that goes towards improving the situation in the field of environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia. Today, a whole series of incorrect things have been said here, and as an example, I would like to point out that as a minister of environmental protection and the nature of the vehicle in the car of Mitsubishi i-MIEV, which is an electric vehicle, a completely electric vehicle, and if it were supplied with renewable energy sources, there would be absolutely zero CO2 emissions. I believe that this law is a very, very good step but the first step that Croatia is taking in the process of greening traffic, and should be kept in mind that traffic has been the largest air pollutant in the Republic of Croatia for many years, so it is not industry, it is not energy, it is traffic, and it is not only heavy road traffic, but traffic by personal cars that we use I believe all of us here in this building. And what particularly bothered me all these years was that electric cars like this i-MIEV where I was driving as a minister today must pay very, very expensive taxes even though it is a technology that is good and positive for the environment. What we're going to hope for at the end of this week and vote on it is that these vehicles are going to be considerably cheap compared to how they're moving now. Today there were a lot of words here that this particular tax to be a new tax, that such a thing never existed so far, it is not exactly as first and what should be told citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia that the result of this law and this new way of calculating taxes on motor vehicles will be such that eco-acceptable vehicles will be significantly cheaper than they are today. The other thing is that one medium category per show means up to about 130 g/km will remain the same price or even slightly lower than I think it is good, and that vehicles with higher emissions will pay a higher price than they pay today. I think that's what we need to strive and strive for, that is, those who are major polluters should pay more and pay. So it is not the first objective of this law as it has tried to convince the public in some way that the state's tax revenues are increasing on the basis of motor vehicle tax or some new tax, but it is precisely that we are heading towards a greening of transport in the Republic of Croatia. As I have already mentioned, this measure will not in itself contribute much unless it follows some other measures and I expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but not only from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also from local self-government units, from mayors and mayors to do something about greening traffic in the Republic of Croatia. What should certainly be considered as a next step is that, by means of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, which among other things is full and based on the environmental benefits that you pay when you register a vehicle and which should actually be used to encourage more environmentally acceptable vehicles are now used for subsidisation, the financial subsidisation of those citizens who choose to purchase electric vehicles or certain hybrid vehicles. Of course, another step that the state and local self-government units need to take is to build a network of infrastructures or charge stations in cities, in parking lots such as for many years of practice in many European cities where when you park your car you can turn it into electricity and charge it while you are at work or do other jobs in the city. It also applies to the gas station network. What we must also do in order to greenen transport in the Republic of Croatia is to use the railways significantly more, especially the suburban railway for the transport of passengers especially in this urban and suburban transport, but also the use of biofuels. The measures that can be implemented locally are, for example, free parking of local self-government units for hybrid vehicles and electric vehicles. I believe that would also be one of the motives for people to go shopping for such environmentally acceptable vehicles. Then, of course, it is extremely important to improve both quality and efficiency and to say the ecological quality of public urban transport, to finally start introducing this biogas into urban transport and electricity that would be derived from renewable energy sources, but of course it is a rather complicated issue that also has to do with HEP, with the issue of monopoly, with greater use of renewable energy sources. So, things aren't that simple. The next measure that local self-government units also need to take to improve the state of CO2 emissions in transport is a good network of cycling routes, then the possibility of using so-called. public bicycles, which is a practice used today in a large number of European cities and these are all normal things. Go back to that environmental car I had the chance to drive as a minister. Here's a nice little piece of information, come home, park it, plug it in as nicely as any home machine and for 7 kuna drive 100 km around the city. I think that, with the price of cars like this downgrade, this law will certainly contribute to one of the good arguments for citizens to start thinking about this form of personal cars as their possible variant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27124	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27125	Dear colleagues, I truly believe what you just said, but at first let's leave some units of local self-government and local self-government as long as it's a centralized state and while the empty pockets of those local self-government units are empty. And here's some financial colleagues to explain if there's going to be any cheaping at all. He won't come? It depends on the car industry whether someone and car manufacturers will lower the price of a car model, but it will not depend on this tax. This is tax. European countries or developed world countries subsidise the purchase of hybrid electric cars or transport vehicles to renewable energy sources. They don't do it by tax, they don't do it by tax. On the other hand, we can't protect the environment by tax. You have at the same time we release the aircraft, the vessels, not the one with the little vitre-ship. It's already released either some Crysler or Lexus or so on. Because they're exempt from that tax. On the other hand, you have planes that I believe you've seen certain emissions where the entire atmosphere and the upper and lower layer of the atmosphere is destroyed by just constant air traffic, where virtually Earth's atmosphere counts the last days of its survival. When I talk about the last days, I don't mean for a month, but it's still about tens of thousands of years, etc. But the whole traffic destroyed the atmosphere. After all, if we really want to protect the Croatian air, the Croatian environment, eventually the planet Earth, so let's start with that refinery in Slavonski Brod. Not all these vehicles driving in Croatia, and even in transit do not pollute as much air as this refinery And the government is helpless and doesn't know what to do. [[Thank you very much.]] And he has a solution. [[Break Zgrebec: A colleague of Vinkovic!]] Let's close it. I'm gonna say the answer. [[Zgrebec: A colleague of Vinkovic's has run out of time.]] Let's close that JANAF pipeline and settle the matter so we can...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27126	The answer to Mirel Holy's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27127	Someone shut me out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27128	Time has shut you down.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27129	I wish you were a Pupovci. He was two minutes talking about Tesla, the big man.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27130	I didn't run the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27131	My dear colleague, you have denied yourself. Of course, vehicles that are environmentally acceptable will be cheap, so they won't have to pay this tax. So how's he gonna pick up those vehicles? I mean, I don't understand what this is about. And you yourself said that subsidies are not the subject of this law because they are not the subject of this law. The Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund has a fund law and it is defined how this fund is being filled and it is also defined that the funds from which this fund is to be spent in full for specific projects and from the part from which the basics are being filled, if they are charged from CO2 tax to motor vehicles, then it is logical that these funds should be used as a subsidy in a certain amount of 10 thousand kuna for all those people who, for example, are being used. They decide to buy an electric vehicle and I say this is the first step and of course it cannot contribute to us having green traffic in the Republic of Croatia but we must start from something. It is unfortunate that Croatia is one of the few countries in Europe that did not have an ecological criterion introduced in terms of tax policy for motor vehicles.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27132	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27133	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues Holly, therefore, and you and I agree that we support the bill which would base the calculation of the tax, the particular tax on motor vehicles, in a way that punishes those who can thus say more carbon dioxide, but this is not just about that, this is about a combined approach, on the one hand, most of that tax determines the value criterion, so the price of the vehicle, and on the other hand most of that same tax determines the amount of CO2. If the Government had proposed only the ecological criterion then he would have believed and would have been absolutely certain that this would lead to a reduction in prices for vehicles that are more environmentally acceptable, but here it is, this tax introduces a revolutionary change, because for the first time most excise duties are determined after a retail price has been established, after the level of customs duty has been determined and after the calculation of VAT, so it is a completely new approach for traders and they now have to bind the price of this excise duty and that particular tax into their margin, which will then in any case lead to a new accounting. And the other thing that happens with this law and so far has not been the case, and it says in the law that traders are no longer obliged to publicly publish a basis for the calculation of excise duty, and there is this possibility that these vehicles that release more CO2 will be collected, but does not leave enough mechanisms and security for citizens that those who, those vehicles that release less, less CO2 will be cheaped and that's the problem, and there the government should go with only one criterion and leave the existing VAT and tax calculation and then they would be sure that this will not happen which here is a manifest fear of many of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27134	Replication response, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27135	Well, here it is, so I have to say that what I just found I didn't suck out of my finger, but I've just talked to my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance who are together with colleagues from the Ministry of Environmental Affairs, from this Vehicle Center, and I don't know which one, I think the Institute of Croatian Fire was involved in working out those measures, and they've made some kind of scoreboards, calculations, they're not by any chance that, I hope that my colleagues in the final address will explain it a little bit. I would just like to look further at something that was said by your colleague when she spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, which is that these borders are different from those that are present in other European countries. Well, you should have one very simple thing on your mind, which is that all these European countries have very strong automotive industries and that, in addition to their interest, it was in their interest to go towards the greening of traffic, it was in their interest to protect the interests of their major automotive industries and of course those limits are different than those limits are with us, since we don't have the automotive industry. Maybe one day we'll have a car industry just like these electric vehicles that we're talking about right now, I hope something like that will be, but we should think about whether it's our interest and subsidizing foreign automotive industries or whether it's our main goal to greenen traffic in the Republic of Croatia. I think our main goal should be to greening traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27136	Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27137	Well, Miss Holly, you said it wasn't a basic intention, the purpose of this law to fill the state budget, but here's a positive effect on environmental protection. And as you explain then the fact that, in the light of this law on page 6, the legislator wrote why the vessels and aircraft are exempt from this, it is proposed to abolish the taxes of the aircraft by special tax because, in the period from 15 July 2004 to 22 August 2012, the basic income recorded in the state budget is from itself, so it only shows you, and nowhere is it thrown into the first environmental protection plan and how polluting both aircraft and vessels on our Adriatic Sea and on our rivers, but it has been seen whether it contributes to filling the state budget or not. And on the other hand, you know whenever you introduce a tax that is a burden on citizens then to justify that it is for the purpose of environmental protection maybe this on paper is for the purpose of protecting the environment, but this pollution of the standard of living of Croatian citizens, you have a situation to be freed from paying those who have planes, who have vessels. Well, these are people who swim in money, and the vast majority of Croatian citizens on the canister today are buying fuel, not to fill a full tank, but to canisters. And you release those who don't know what to do with the money that has ships and planes not to pay this special tax, and those who barely patch up that they may be able to take their sick children to a doctor, you burden them with a special tax. You hit the rich and you yell the skin at those who barely survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27138	Thank you. The answer to Mirel Holy's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27139	My dear colleague, I don't know, but I think you've read something a little wrong. It seems to me that those who are for economic purposes are being released, and they are not for those private purposes. ... But I really cannot understand that you are opposed to reducing the tax burden on eco-acceptable vehicles and that you are explaining that this will be a blow to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's the thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27140	And the last replica of Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27141	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Holly felt a little unreal when I listened to your beautiful tract about greening up Croatian traffic as it already goes on about what we still have to do to make the state the way we want it and what you and I want it to be, it's not at all a question. But it's not clear to me, is this really expensive thing to start by taxing those who can't avoid it? Because maybe people will be running in electric cars soon, true. You may be driving in it, I may be driving in it, but the average Croatian citizens in the next five years won't change the car, neither will this gas station, will be driving in the old one and it will smoke and drop clouds around it and that man will pay taxes. You and I may not, we'll buy an electric car, we'll slip into a socket, and we'll ride green and I'll be happy to be ecologically aware. Namely, this syntagma I have to repeat is the greening of traffic is really moving and necessary and no one against it has anything, but is this the way to reach that goal?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27142	The answer to Mirel Holy's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27143	Well, we always have to start somewhere, no. And other European countries have also gone with these measures and with some other measures, and some of these measures are already being implemented. Some cities like that. Koprivnicas have been public bicycles for many years, for example. Some cities have excellent bicycle trail networks, some rare cities also have public transportation on biogas. Unfortunately, very few. So it's not like there's nothing. There's a lot to be done, a lot more that's a fact, but I think now it might turn out a little cynical what I'm going to say, but those citizens you've been talking about through the worried way that here they don't have for gas or anything and you said they won't buy a car either. If they're not going to buy a car, this law doesn't concern them in any way. That's it, and if they decide to buy a new car then I hope they'll be motivated to buy a more environmentally-friendly car because such a car will be more accessible to them through this tax and through certain subsidies through the state, and perhaps the local self-government unit, you never know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27144	We are continuing to discuss Drazenko Pandek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27145	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I must point out that I am particularly pleased to support this legislative proposal because, as a parliamentary representative of the SDP, I have been involved in the work of the SDP Environment Protection Council, led by MP Holy, who has been presenting a proposal that has just been focused on changing the current excise accounting model in the direction of more respecting the ecological criteria for the determination of excise duties. This model so far had almost exclusively a fiscal purpose and was more burdened by vehicles of course with a higher price. Such logic also had a social environmental guide about tens of years ago because at that time they were more expensive vehicles, vehicles with more engine volume, greater consumption and greater environmental impact. But now with the development of vehicles that use more advanced technologies have less fuel consumption, less environmental impact, and especially less CO2 emissions per mile, such a way of calculating excise duties has become obsolete and just counterproductive. New technologies cost, they increase the price of vehicles, and according to the current model, customers of vehicles that use new technologies friendly to the environment, which therefore have lower fuel consumption and lower environmental footprints are essentially penalized. Therefore, the reasons for supporting such a model of excise duty according to the value of the vehicle, but also according to the CO2 value of the journeyed km, are numerous. In the first row, this is pronounced, transport is a particularly significant source of CO2 emissions. The majority of CO2 emissions originate from road traffic, from 86 to 94% depending on the vehicle. In 1995 about 164 passenger vehicles were registered in Croatia and in 2009 the number grew to 542. So we notice an extraordinary increase in the number of vehicles, of course in accordance with this and a higher CO2 emissions coming from the transport segment. The transport sub-sector itself participates in total and direct energy consumption with about 30% which is a significant share and, of course, has a significant impact on the total CO2 emissions. So all these facts impose the need for action aimed at reducing CO2 consumption. So although in the global frameworks, the Croatian share in this show is not, of course, significant, we should not ignore our obligation to behave responsibly in this area. So not only has Croatia made certain commitments under international agreements where we have committed ourselves to limiting CO2 emissions and we will pay for certain foams unless we reach certain standards. Croatia is extremely sensitive to climate change and of course it has an interest to contribute to preventing global climate change. And we have meteorological extremes that we can see more and more, we record extreme droughts and huge floods, the damages hit us too. There's just no excuse for inaction. The main task of state authorities in this area is therefore to reduce emissions without at the same time jeopardising economic development, competitiveness, individual standard and employment. Incidentally or not shortly before this law was presented and sent through the media to follow the news about two separate Croatian electric car projects. One is a super sports electric car project by Romec, and the other is a project of a small electric car company... now I think it's called Lux. It is about products of Croatian creativity and mind. Some time ago, on a working visit to the Parliament she was a World Bank delegation led by Mr. Ham, he was otherwise born South Korean. On this occasion he said he would even speak very sincerely and respectfully about the great creativity and innovation he finds in Croatia. On this occasion he spoke of this particular car, the Roman super sports car that I mentioned, and otherwise the first copy I saw in the media was even sold in Spain. He mentioned that his home country of South Korea has such a level of individuality and creativity that their economic growth would be significantly higher than it is now, and yet we testify that the level of economic progress of South Korea and Croatia is unfortunately incomparable in favour of South Korea. Then what's the problem? It seems to me that we simply don't know how to create conditions for our creators to translate their ideas into products. I'd say we'd even choke them. I am convinced that this law will, at least to a small extent, help our entrepreneurs to make sure that their projects that I have just mentioned survive. Moreover, I think that other fiscal policy measures should support these and similar projects. Although this law represents a step in the right direction, as counterpart Holly said, it is not by itself enough. Although technologies that allow, for example, to use unconventional fuels are still expensive in the future are now easy to predict the price of such technologies and their higher availability. Some countries are now in the development of such technologies seeing their chance. So, for example. Denmark plans to fully switch to fully renewable energy sources by 2050. In this regard, they consider that such a transition will be expensive given that alternative energy sources are more expensive than conventional ones, but by calculating... and losses from the development of technology and exports of such technology. Regardless of the current expensive price of fossil fuel energy and the use of fossil fuel motor vehicles, it is a clear tendency that in the medium term we must expect to collect energy based on fossil fuels. Many inhabitants of India and China will still be able to buy cars during a medium-term period that is now poor. Their car acquisition will accumulate fossil fuels, increase consumption, and we are all aware that fossil fuel sources are not increasing but are even reducing. The economic account is also clear to the economic laymen. And Croatia has a large number of creative individuals in this area that I've talked about already give a lot. I think we simply need to encourage their innovation in every way possible and give them conditions for success. And this law, as I said, is a step in the right direction. The fiscal policy must, of course, not only be a mere fund-raiser but must be used to achieve the strategic objectives that we seek. Personally, I believe that the development of alternative energy sources and related to the development of these non-exclusive vehicles, which do not use fossil fuels, is therefore a step in the right direction. We don't have our own auto industry yet. In both fields, we are deficited, and by our own energy production, even green, clean energy and related to that green cars we realize many... effects, we are substituting imports of what the finance minister has been talking about, we are opening new jobs and we are developing technology, this no hau that can become an export product, an export opportunity. Unfortunately, so far, we have not attracted any major auto-industry that... their drive in Croatia was of interest, but all potential investors have dropped out primarily because we have not found such an incentive environment for their investment as they have found in some neighbouring countries in the environment primarily. And in my opinion, the last months have been passed a series of laws that were designed to make this environment more stimulating. Since in these countries of new Europe already numerous car manufacturers have opened their car drives on this classic conventional drive, it may be our chance to find a certain niche by encouraging and enabling the development and production of an alternative car. I would therefore recommend that the applicant think therefore in this light and further discharging the vehicle with extremely low CO2 emissions per km, for example, that vehicles that have up to 100 g of CO2 per km and fully release excise duties because the market share of such vehicles in the total number of vehicles sold is extremely small, and not so much affecting the revenue side of the budget, and such a measure would further highlight the green importance of this law and give a clear indication of where Croatia wants to go in this segment. I would also stress the need to consider other fiscal measures that could carry out further incentives in this segment to use vehicles with a small organic footprint which could further contribute to the achievement of these objectives I was talking about. Also, as one proposal, I would suggest that an additional consideration be given to the possibility that, when public procurement of motor vehicles for the needs of state and commercial companies on state property, a procurement criterion could therefore be introduced, allowing only vehicles to be supplied to a specific CO2 mission limit. In some European countries, I think that border is set to around 119 grams of CO2 per mile. So let me get this straight. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Bring the end.]] This is a step in the right direction. Each time from 1,000 miles begins with the first step. This is the right step. He may not be enough, but he's going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27146	Thank you very much. Dinko Buric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27147	Oh, how hard it is to listen when a speaker knows something and doesn't believe what he's saying. So listen, this tax applies to the vast majority of Croatian citizens who have cars like they have. And you give us an excuse why this law is good you name the super-fastest electric car in the world invented by the Croat. Well done, we're taking off our hat. But he is only bought for a price of 350 to 400,000 euros by sheiks, or according to those car eccentrics. That's one or two sold so far. This law concerns all Croatian citizens, the vast majority of Croatian citizens. And it's said, and my esteemed colleague Holly said that, and you're trying to justify it now that it's not true, and here's the fact that my colleague Vinkovic jumped himself says "in his mouth" because it's not true that he's not gonna fuck up. It won't be cheap. Maybe they'd have put those eco-friendly cars on the line if you hadn't built the base. You have annulled the effect of equivalence by adding VAT to the base of the calculation and starting by 25%. And now you're offering a cheap or 10% discount. It's like that sale when you're having a seasonal sale, so the merchants pick you up by 30% first price and then say 50% of everything, and you're finally buying more expensive. The final effect of this law will be the addition, and all the time the justification as it is to protect the environment you know me now and this general government policy reminds me now why so many jobs are being shut down. Because you seem to be leading that logic by shutting down the factory chimneys and closing down jobs, we're actually making the Croatian people useful. Here's a clean air, but an empty wallet.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27148	My colleagues, please pay attention in time. The answer to the replica Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27149	Here's a thank you. I certainly believe that these measures that have been proposed will at least help to some extent, hence the greater market share of these cars, especially electric ones. It was said here in the debates that very small numbers of these cars would be sold. For example, I immediately found information that Volvo plans to sell the middle class in the next year 5,000 such Volvos... in Sweden. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This when I mentioned this super sports car... It's just one indicator that there's an interest and that there's our brains and innovation that we need to encourage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's also that smaller car that produces... So there's creativity, it's being prepared towards the production of such cars, and we have to encourage on any of these measures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27150	Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27151	Well, my Dinko and I are this black, but we're not sheiks, and God, we're not even eccentrics like most Croatian citizens. To them, this is very clear that tax is being taxed and nothing else. Well, that's how he made the bread cheap with the 5%. Not since the date of entry into the EU, but immediately after the law was passed, although something else was written in that EU signature on the abolition of a zero VAT rate. So here's the clear thing about it. And if we go on like this, you said that this government has taken a series of measures that increase investment in Croatia, etc. Maybe that's true. It is likely that these investments would also lead to the creation of new jobs, so today that number would not exceed 370,000. When we became parliamentary representatives, there was little less than 300,000. Today there are 370 of them. So what are these measures? So are these good measures or bad measures? If they were good, they'd probably be shrinking, not increasing. So this is how I see the future of these measures that we will be wrestling with one great majority if someone is to honor these inventors, innovators, etc. But the owner himself says that this car can only buy a rich sheik or some eccentric who has money like that Eclestone who gets an eccentric car and an eccentric 18-year-old lady, and leaves this one out of 40, 50 and that's understandable because he has billions of dollars. And it seems to me that most Croats will drive on one horsepower or slowly turn everything into horses if one of us doesn't invent a Perpetum mobile. I hope you know what that is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27152	Thank you. The answer to the replica Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27153	Thank you. In the first instance, this law will have no more significant and greater tax effect or inflow into the state budget than it was in the old model. He's going to slightly increase the tax credits on her, to buy those new vehicles. Therefore, not those that are existing, those that have significantly higher CO2 emissions, especially those that have significantly lower CO2 emissions, will be subject to a certain cost-effectiveness. You have now caught up with this car which I mentioned to the Roman, but, yes, but I mention it to others, I have cited it as an example that there are domestic brains, domestic innovation that can produce such cars, and small cars, so electric cars, and in this way I think that this is one step towards encouraging them to produce cars that will also be available for the Croatian market, which, by the way, that company Doking is moving in that direction, so that's exactly the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27154	And the last replica, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27155	Thank you very much. You said in one part of your exposure we don't have our own car industry yet. We're not going to have any industry yet, we're working on it, and today, among other things, it's said that this law does not apply to those who don't, so they won't even buy a car, so it doesn't apply to them. Let's say I have a man in my neighborhood whose car fell apart, he bought Golf, and I don't know how old for 2,000 kuna, he's going under this. You mentioned a South Korean expert who hosted it, praised creativity and innovation, God trust me, he's not the only one who admires creativity because it really takes creativity to ban this kind of thing, it's really creative work, I've already said it and it's not the only creativity, let's just say this law is a contribution to it, people outside have said that our biggest problem is tax instability, and that's another addition to that story. As far as the debate is concerned, it's to conclude that you're apostrophe that we're anti-ecology, but it's no one against environmental science, and the fact that this isn't an ecology that hides a new tax burden under the environmental label, so let's be honest with environmental science there's very few points of touch, except in the text it's based on it, so it's just dragn on it to be some excuse. And to the very end, as you said in the end, each time from a thousand miles begins with the first step, and I would add to that another such path to hell is filled with the good intentions of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27156	Replication response, Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27157	Thank you. So again, I point out my claim that I am convinced that it stands so that this will not increase the total inflow into the state budget based on car sales and the current excise model has been more than outdated, he has punished people who bought highly technologically developed cars because they are simply expensive, they use expensive technologies to be greener, more environmentally efficient and have a high price the model so far has disproportionately increased the price of such cars, this model will significantly, significantly cheaper cars.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27158	We continue the debate, Branko Bačić, last in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27159	Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with Associates, Dear colleagues and colleagues. So this law changes the approach to the calculation of a specific tax on the transport of motor vehicles, and in two ways, one is content in a way that, instead of the basis for calculating this tax, the value of the vehicle now introduces a double criterion which depends on the price of the vehicle and on the other hand on the amount of carbon dioxide released into the air. And the second, and other essential element of the amendment of this law is that now, that the excise duty is not now calculated as so far has been calculated at a retail price but that the excise duty is now calculated after the retail price, customs and then VAT, and only then is the amount of this special tax determined. I have to tell you, I don't agree with any other approach. So, as regards this content section, which introduces a combined approach to the calculation of the specific tax and the basis of the value of the vehicle, and on the other hand, about the amount of carbon dioxide released, if the Government is going to do so and I support it to move towards the exclusive link of this specific tax to carbon dioxide transmission, then you should go to the end, to remove this value criterion and to make it clear that this government really wants to protect the environment and to make this specific tax exclusively related to that, with the amount and emissions of carbon dioxide that has been made and in many Member States of the European Union. I think that would be a fairer approach and a better approach. The second thing is, there is a question, and I am a supporter of what is said to be a new approach in the calculation of a special tax when the excise duty is not directly calculated at a retail price, but only after the VAT level is determined and after the customs duty is established, then VAT, and only then the tax, that it leaves many with the right to doubt that it will gather precisely those who, who release more carbon dioxide, and for those smaller vehicles, are usually cheaper, which release less carbon dioxide that we are not sure that you have convinced us, us and the Croatian public that these vehicles will be cheaped for several reasons. The first reason is that now more, therefore, the system of accounting for this particular tax is changing, on the other hand, when traders had to establish the level of this tax, the excise duty to call it, now they are not obliged, now they can because they are not even obliged to publish the basis for calculating the excise duty of this particular tax, they can now monitor competition and through and that tax special tax which practically enters through their margin now maneuver in such a way as to determine what prices of similar vehicles are similar to those of carbon dioxide. Therefore, it is certain that those who release more will collect, and we are not sure about the basis of the new calculation and that the excise duty is now being calculated on VAT and that traders can maneuver to collect these cheap ones. And there is reason to be concerned that what you find that even these vehicles that release less cheaply in that you have failed to convince us and I am afraid that traders will know how to answer even in this bill. Another thing why I also don't support the adoption of this law in this form. In fact, if we have established that this excise duty will now be paid because it will be paid to a greater extent by those who are more polluting the environment on the basis of carbon dioxide release, then I expected that the government of the Republic of Croatia will determine for each vehicle how much these environmental components have been paid, how much State budget funds will come from the ecological component, and then those funds, based on the payment of this particular tax, will be realised by the additional air pollution of carbon dioxide, that these funds will be intended, that they will not now be an integral part of the state budget and that the state and the Ministry of Finance and Government will use them for all possible needs, and there are many in the state budget. I expected that if we were to raise funds in the state budget in a way that would punish those who are more polluting the environment, then we would determine what it is and then encourage those who are less polluting the environment. It would then be the right purpose of raising funds, that those who pollute more help those who pollute less. And in this way we could direct the funds from that excise duty as a bonus for buying vehicles that less pollute the environment. This would then be the right approach and those bonuses that could be achieved through the purchase of vehicles that release a smaller amount of carbon dioxide could get the purpose. I expected it. In this way, the Government proposes to the Croatian Parliament almost the same thing that you proposed to us on the basis of the amendments and addition of the Biofuels Act, when we abolished that there was a dedicated income paid by all fuel producers in the Republic of Croatia per litre of fuel and those funds were then HROTE's income, as the Croatian electricity market operator is called, and it was able to dispose of these funds. Now these funds are no longer intended because they become part of the state budget, and then the government delivers these funds to that same agency according to one of its findings, so that all producers of biofuels in the Republic of Croatia at the moment do not know how much per litre of biofuel produced in this year in which we have already received a grant from the State. This trail is also the proposal of this law to allegedly protect the Croatian environment to protect and try to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, but we are not encouraged by the fact that we are collecting this fee, we are not encouraging those who are already sufficiently reducing carbon dioxide emissions. I therefore believe that this draft law did not make it clear that indeed the price of a vehicle that releases less carbon dioxide would decrease, but that you certainly made it clear to those who are also lowering the higher prices of these vehicles will be greatly increased. Therefore, because of this doubt and because I disagree that this excise duty is collected without it entering a system that will encourage carbon dioxide reduction, I cannot support this law for this reason. I don't see what reason he ran the government, and at least try to explain to us why you changed the system of special tax returns and first laid it before calculating value added tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27160	We're moving on to replicas. Miss twilight first.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27161	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Bacic here's what I'm interested in, and I've been listening very carefully to all the debates, and I really think that as far as protection is concerned, we all agree that we should protect, but as well as you said that there will be a gathering. I want to know why, okay, this law protects the air, why not protect the water, or the sea? Why, then, this same tax does not apply to large vessels which we know ourselves, which means a large engine, fuel consumption and that mission in seawater or in riverwater. Then someone mentioned private planes, and I agree with that. And one more thing I'm curious about is that article 15 lists motor vehicles that are exempt from special taxes. We just had some remarks from colleagues Bačić and some of the board, so there are no listed vehicles that are special purpose for the transport of disabled persons, whether they will be found I don't know, we don't have the right answer. And of course there are some other vehicles that are for special purposes, I'd say they called me the same from one animal protection organization, so there are vehicles that transport wounded and severely ill animals that are found on the road. They shall be transported exclusively by special vehicles and served for that purpose. That's what they're registered for. Here it is, say, these types of vehicles I'm also interested in why they're not listed as being exempt from special taxes on motor vehicles, especially from sea and air pollution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27162	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27163	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You're right, classmates. I should say that this is a one-time tax paid in the purchase of a vehicle and I share your opinion I see no reason why the government gave up this tax, special taxes on vessels and aircraft. As much as the government is trying to explain that this is indeed a small amount in the state budget that comes from the collection of taxes for both vessels and aircraft. I don't think that was the reason for the government to send the wrong message to those who have the most, as we just heard who can buy such traffic, to remove such a tax and on the other hand to the largest number of Croatian citizens who usually buy cars introduce such a tax which, as I said, will certainly increase the price of all these vehicles.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27164	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27165	Thank you very much. Well, I listened very carefully to you, and you explained it very well. But you were wrongly hoping because this green car tax goes into the budget because the fact is that this government doesn't choose ways and means to put everything into the budget. We've seen that one agency that has large incomes, an oil agency that has a budget somewhere at 700 million kunas has been put into the division of the economy ministry to make that budget look something but to find some money for the budget. It is a fact such as the fact that today lives harder and that there are fewer and that Croats will drive the most expensive cars in the region. They are driving them today and we are surprised why Germany, Italy or some other nationality from other countries have better cars than we are because they are cheaper, they have less VAT, they are already cheaper than 6-7% compared to the same cars in Croatia, for example I will tell you only an example of an ordinary Kia Rio of 85 horsepower in Slovenia costing 2,000 euros less than in Croatia. We do not pay customs duties on cars produced in the EU but we pay 8% to those imported from Japan, Korea, etc. And it will remain in the future. This is another additional imposition, and there's no end to the gathering. After this, we're going to a new excise tax code, they're picking up cigarettes, alcohol, alcoholic beverages, electricity, or I know what's wrong, and it's our only destiny. Today I spoke to the prime minister in my question about how the Croatian people live, there are 370 thousand of us on HZZ, and this may not be important to them today, and it is not important, and it is not obvious, because we are discussing every law where prices or taxes are raised in the afternoon, so this is the fact that this is a law on a new special tax as a fellow tax officer has said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27166	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27167	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I agree with you, fellow Boric, one thing is not clear to me. Which is why the government, at a special time, proposes to the Croatian Parliament that special revenues collected from Croatian citizens be taken away from state agencies that were founded to encourage individual activities. I mentioned earlier that the special tax charged in the purchase of fuel was the original income of a Croatian Energy Market Regulatory Agency. It is now taken, taken by the Ministry of Finance as part of the revenues of the state budget, and then the Government according to some of its intentions a certain amount of these funds, which does not mean that it does not have to be the total amount of income allocated to the same agency. Why not leave the independence of those bodies who are only founded to do so because they know best how to dispose of them. On this trail was my debate that I expected the Government and these funds to be left to the Croatian Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, so that these funds that are collected on the basis of this special tax could encourage a number of activities in the Republic of Croatia that would go towards reducing carbon dioxide emissions. In this way, the government will, because it tells us that it wants to save the environment, take the funds but will not place them in further environmental protection, but will spend them where it is more necessary at that time. Are these pensions, are they not the subsidies of some kind, is it wages, is it health care, I don't know now, but in any case they won't come where they're collected and that's why I said I didn't agree with such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27168	Replica, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27169	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Bacic, you have given us much of what we at the club agree with. However, a colleague of Sumrak also touched on an important article in this law that was little to speak about, which is Article 15 which speaks of who was exempt from the exceptional payment of a special tax. This law is I don't know if the promoter noticed what's wrong with this article. First, it predicts that a specific tax is not paid on motor vehicles intended mainly for the official needs of foreign diplomatic offices, international organisations, etc. On the one hand, I don't think it's so fair to Croatian citizens, they could pay when they buy cars tax here but it has reciprocity so if they don't pay our representations there it's okay not to pay them in Croatia either. However, in paragraph 4 of that Article, the exemption from the payment of the specific tax referred to in point 2 of paragraph 1 shall be for the personal needs of foreign personnel diplomatically. For the purposes of paragraph 4, personal needs and foreign staff of international organisations and referred to in paragraph 7 for the personal needs of foreign personnel of EU institutions. Therefore, the exemption from paying a special tax cannot be achieved by citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So, strangers when driving in that car they're not obliged to pay taxes, and a Croatian citizen if he's driving in that car how do you intend to charge him a tax? Well, taxes are paid on cars or then this item 4 is absolutely unnecessary. Because you regulate not the individual who pays. She bought that international institution I suppose, diplomatic representation or someone else that car and then either paid the tax or didn't pay the tax. But why do you need it now? So the driver is a Croat, driving a foreign ambassador. You're gonna tax the driver, and you're gonna free this guy from taxes, but don't. Throw out the fourth item and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27170	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27171	Madam Vice President, that fellow Buric you are on a good track but you need to take another step further. In fact, I agree with you and probably the Government has thought about it that the principle of reciprocity is necessary and that what is allowed for our diplomats in Austria that this should also be possible for Austrian diplomats in Croatia. But what still needs to be done is to limit the number of vehicles of that same diplomat. Can another Undersecretary in an embassy in the Republic of Croatia buy six vehicles and not pay this special tax? If there's one, let him use one. As can Croatian diplomats in the world, and not allow for the needs of one secretary, with due respect for each member of any embassy in Croatia and diplomatic representation, it seems to me that it should be worth reciprocity, and then it is only one vehicle. We're on the board to discuss it. We were told by the government's representative that the minister can do it by means of a sublegal act. The minister cannot, by means of a sublegal act, exceed those restrictions which are both provisions and powers given by the law itself, so we expected that the amendment government itself would change and set the criteria of reciprocity for Croatian diplomats in, for example, the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27172	Next replica, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27173	Here's my esteemed colleague, Bacic, I think we know what this is all about. It is a tax tax, a new burden for Croatian citizens. But here, reading these days in the media, since we have introduced a series to say so in taxes, new burdens to Croatian citizens starting with that famous VAT not to reduce it from 23 to 21 but to increase it from 23 to 25%. I hope that this government and this ministry, this entire centralisation, and not the decentralisation of the Croatian state, will not fail, for example, to beat the tax on heels. So I hope that these last days in Opatija you didn't come to a big coalition and predict this new move by the Croatian government, so on that clause of yours you concluded that women shouldn't be walking in heels. However, I would not be surprised if this government introduced such a tax since this tax is clearly going to reduce the number of passenger cars in the Republic of Croatia because many citizens no longer have any use for each other, that we understand each other. On the other hand, new taxes are making Croatia's citizens more and more impoverished. So, I wouldn't be surprised because it's obvious that the representatives of the softer or the sub-represented sex themselves will have to walk on foot, not in cars anymore. And so do men, and I hope there won't be a special environmental tax on shoes and heels. I hope so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27174	Replication response, Branko Bacic. Do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27175	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So I'm glad to have a colleague, Vinkovic, that you follow the work of the Croatian Democratic Community clause. I see you're very interested in that, and here you are, getting involved in this game about heels. But it wouldn't surprise me, as it would surprise you, if the government were taxing heels in this flood of new taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27176	And the last replica of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27177	Dear counterpart Bačić, so I would just remind you that according to the Biofuels Act that was adopted at the time of the HDZ Government was also a provision for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to decide at the end of the year on the amount of compensation to be paid in favour of the promotion of biofuels. That hasn't changed anything. So it remained the same as in previous versions of the law. And again, I would remind you that at the time of the HDZ Government, funds from the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, which were paid on the basis of this particular compensation on motor vehicles or CO2 emissions, i.e. those environmental benefits were spent quite in a strange way to obtain a 5-quality euro vehicle, not for subsidising precisely on standard vehicles such as hybrid vehicles, electric vehicles and the like. So you're instigating something that's actually already a legal standard. So that money was spent very unintendedly, and I hope that from now on, the money from the fund will be spent, and the audit has shown that there are many problems in the fund's business. Here it is, we've also got a state audit on the table, we're going to be discussing it soon, so I think it's a little unusual that after you've had a chance in the past I don't know how many years to do it, so among other things, we're going to introduce a special tax on motor vehicles that would only be on the ecological principle, or according to CO2 emissions, you didn't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27178	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27179	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow Holly, you knock on the open door, we're talking about the same thing, I'm not saying that if something wasn't good before that should be worse now, and in that same thing you have to agree with me, so when you already mention fund funds and everything the fund has done, I think the fund has stimulated a very large number of projects in the Republic of Croatia, and you're witnesses who've been going towards just reducing CO2 emissions, the introduction of important new facilities that would further protect the environment. So if something wasn't good, there shouldn't be a reason now that we would, that would... It should be for a law that's not good, it's very important. [[You don't understand.]] So if something isn't good in this law, we can't keep it quiet because it's never been good before, so I expect you to be in your debate more on the trail of that debate we had on the committee itself, which is that this law is going towards good but it's not enough and I don't think it's going to gain purpose, which is the purpose, which is why this law is actually being passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27180	Proposer's closing statement, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27181	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, here I have listened carefully to today's debate and I must say that in some of your remarks we will seriously consider them, we believe that they are standing, especially when it comes to what we said, what you said about changing those tables by regulation, we agree, so the intensity was that once a year the effects of this law are being questioned, because as I said in the introduction goal, the purpose of this was to see what the situation in the Republic of Croatia is about cars that emit CO2 emissions, and you see that the situation is not good, so the state of 140 grams per mile, that in the European Union is 135, now we are asking ourselves questions about how and why, and it is about the same vehicles in the European Union 2011 on the same vehicles in Croatia, is 140 in us, whether Europe, we are talking to us about the same kind of vehicles with the same kind of air. So that was the real intensity, and we here have to think about how to get down to this level of 130 grams that Europe said we have to be in 2015, that's the intensity of this law, and that's why we wanted through those tables to... We're reviewing them annually, and we see in what direction we're moving further, to be able to examine them once a year, okay, through the law again, so, because every year we're making changes to the law to see how these ecological scales worked on the market, so they're acting on the market, because the intensity wasn't fiscal character, we're saying it here all the time, but ecologically, and that's where we have to ask ourselves how to reach these 130. [[You don't understand.]] Just to tell you the example of Europe, so they were looking at the meaning of 130 grams so they said in 2020 we have to get to 90 grams, they calculated that total savings when you drive such a vehicle in fuel consumption per year would be up to 340 euros per user of that vehicle, so the smaller consumption itself will actually lead to less consumption, so we don't mean in this part we stimulate if the smaller consumption you'll have less and the cost, so it's not, so all the time we're telling you that it wasn't the intensity of the government, meaning fiscal effect but actually this part of the ecological part. Only two of these here are short-circuited for economic vehicles, I agree, they're also great contaminants, now that's a question here again, let's say new ones with some kind of intrusion to impose so-called. a special tax on commercial vehicles carrying out such activities I do not know here is the question... the competitiveness of prices and re-effectiveness so that in that part where we said that economic vehicles... [[You don't understand.]] They found a wide-ranging leprosy so that in that segment and commercial vehicles, if they were to be taxed, they would be considered to have been further taxed, what Mrs. Sunica said we are also considering for the disabled in that part, and... [[You don't understand.]] that we're actually going to go out with a particular proposal. [[You don't understand.]] So the intensity is that all the time I'm talking here in the environment, we have to think about how to get to these 130 without speaking out of these 90, and that's why the intensity is actually that all the time, and that finally from Europe the same vehicles that are under the same bodies come into the Republic of Croatia, and that's the goal of this government, that I can't sell vehicles to them under the same bodywork with less consumption, with a smaller air pollutant, and we're talking about the price of a thousand, two kuna, and what is the cost of costing air, what is the cost of living in a healthy environment, and then the higher prices are ultimately much, the high prices for recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27182	I didn't see who answered the line first, counterpart Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27183	So it's not about any handball, we're bound to work, but look now, you're trying to convince us again how the ecological criterion was first, and how financially it's not, and I'm going to read a passage now, one item above what I was saying to my colleague Holly, then don't write what you're writing in the explanation, because you wrote that because of the low income achieved from the base of the specific tax on the traffic of used vehicles it is proposed to abolish taxation by special taxes on the transport of vessels and aircraft, you added there and the possibility of registration in other countries etc., but in the explanation you corrected yourself from this not to conclude anything else but that the basic criterion was, there were no stories of ecology, but achieved little revenues from the basis of the special vehicle tax. So either write an explanation that will be in line with what you will then defend as an attitude, or do not defend what you defend not to give. Our conclusion, the HDSSB club and as far as I can see by the vast majority of MPs who comment on this law, is that you were not being guided by the ecological but by the financial criteria above all. And this law will not lead to cheaping for an ordinary citizen but rather to a gathering. It will be cheap for those who have money, and yet it is a burden for those who have money, and for the harm of those who do not have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27184	The answer to Boris Lalovec's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27185	Thank you very much. Well, it's a little bit about that part. We're talking about two different things, this is about the sales tax we've abolished for planes and ships. As you saw who was paying that sales tax, Croatia Airlines, mostly paid for aircraft that it worked in traffic. So these are two different things about traffic and about trade means... that part. And why for ships like we did last year... in excise duties we wanted to actually attract the transport of boats to register customers in Croatia unless they have our environments. So Slovenia they don't have a sales tax on boats, and we didn't want to have to have them on that part if we have most of the VAT that if we're not competitors here at least with this sales tax we don't detimize them to come to Croatia. Because we want them to have a relationship and pay the total costs there. So here we're talking about two different things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27186	And Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27187	A lot of things I wanted to say was Mr. Buric and I've picked up a plate from him before. ... That's not what I'm talking about. [[You don't understand what you're saying.]] Like this, you're Mr. Lalovac, I don't even believe you don't believe what you're saying. Here I really don't believe that you believe, you now assure us that you care terribly about the environment. Here's the minister you replaced that I believe would care about the environment, so you replaced her. You say that you will question how the same cars in the EU pollute more air than in Croatia, and you will do so. And now we believe it. Well, you deal with it, you lower your taxes, so you do it, and when you come to the conclusion why do you impose taxes? And now you've been convincing us all along that it's an ecological issue. No, that's an ethical question, now it's become an ethical question. Why? Because you're pulling us around, because you want to impose that organic notion on that financial one. Well, the question is how much money they're gonna take, that's all there is to it. At least if you'd said it openly, and you'd say that, you should increase because of it and that, we need money here's a chance. Now if the Germans have regard for their citizens, we do not have our citizens because the Germans are in a much harder position, each German worker is in a much harder position because there everything falls, here everything grows. Well, I don't think it's really an office. I believe you also don't have to, it's convenient for you. You're a nice man here who's almost a part of us from day to day, so that's how we accepted you, but we don't believe what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27188	Replication response. There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later on this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27189	Final draft law on special taxes on motor vehicles, emergency procedure, first and second reading of PZE No. 245. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please let us know who's up for it? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Score. I find that most of the votes we have accepted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the government of the Republic of Croatia with 84 votes in favour and 36 votes against. I ask the proposing representative to explain the amendments made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27190	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. During your debate, some proposals have actually come, and actually the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to accept the proposals discussed here in this House of Commons, so that Article 5(1) behind the words: "sanitary vehicles" deletes the word "i" puts the decimal behind the word "delivery vehicles" the words "and vehicles specially adapted for the transport of disabled persons." So these vehicles, too, means respecting a specific purpose exclusively for the use of people with disabilities where there have been discussions here, we also accept that the amendment is government. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions In Article 12(7), it shall be deleted. It was also pointed out in this debate that the government should not, in fact, change certain tables by means of a regulation. The government also accepts it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27191	Deputy Minister, I'll give you a warning. Let's do one amendment at a time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27192	Okay. You got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27193	First. You explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27195	I'm opening a debate. Only club representatives can participate in the debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting, of course, on amendment number one of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who is for the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes with 115 votes in favour and 4 votes against we have adopted the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia number one. Number two.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27196	Amendment No 2 refers to Article 12 where paragraph 7 is deleted. The explanation was as I said here in the debate that the Government does not change the number indicator established by the level of the special tax by the regulation. In fact, we accepted this by deleting this article, in Article 12(7).
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27197	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on amendment number two of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I find there are no interested. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment number two of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favor of Amendment number two? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the 118 votes in favour and 2 abstentions have been adopted by amendment number two of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We're going to Amendment number three.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27198	Amendment number three to Article 13. In Article 13(2), paragraph 2 is deleted. So it's just like this previous amendment. It means that the Government cannot change the numbering indicators by its regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27199	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on amendment number three of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I find there are no interested. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment 3. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favor of Amendment number three? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 119 votes, we have accepted amendment to Government Number Three. Here you go. We are moving on to the amendments of the Committee on Legislatives, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Amendment number one of the Legislative Committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27200	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27201	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the proposal, the final proposal. Amendment number two.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27202	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27203	Thank you very much. It also becomes an integral part of the final proposal. Number three amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27204	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27205	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. That's what we said about the amendments. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that, most of the votes with 84 votes in favour and 34 votes against, with one abstention, we have passed the Law on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27206	And then as agreed, we'll do another agenda point under number 7. That's: 7. Proposal for a Law confirming the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Azerbaijan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax, with the Final Bill proposal, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 236 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. Article 159 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The applicant's representative does not wish to give an introductory explanation. The committee's reporters? I don't either. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate and I'm reporting to you that tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. we'll start with the fourth item of the agenda, that's the bill of excise duty with the final draft of the law. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-23-0.u27207	Final draft law on the confirmation of contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Azerbaijan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 236. The debate on the draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that, unanimously with 119 votes, we have passed the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Azerbaijan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Dear fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. I suggest we continue working in the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament with 4. Proposed excise duty law, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 250 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. You may submit amendments until the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Finance, respected Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
