ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37339	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. Dear Minister, Deputy Minister. Here we would start with today's work and, as announced, the first point is - The final proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the multiannual operational programme Regional Competitiveness for Community assistance from pre-accession assistance instruments under the "Regional Development" component in Croatia, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 328 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Regional Development and the European Union Funds and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You've also received reports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Deputy Minister of Regional Development and European Union funds, respected Dr Jaksa Puljiz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37340	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs There is a bill before you to confirm the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission. This law amends the previous Funding Agreement for the Multi-annual Operational Programme Regional Competitiveness. What's the point of this law? This law therefore amends the original agreement, which was the basis for the use of grants under the Operational Programme Regional Competitiveness, which was initially covered by the period 2007-2009, after which 2007.-2011. These amendments extend that period in a way that covers 2012 and the first half of 2013. In accordance with the rules of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, therefore it is still the IPA Fund's resources, it is necessary to access the conclusion of the funding agreement in question for the multiannual programme. The very financing agreement was signed on 21 February 2013. As regards the amounts regulated by this law, let us remind that the total value of the Operational Programme is "regional competitiveness" for the financial period 2007-2013. 717 million kuna, out of which the European Commission from the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, therefore the IPA programme provides grants of €609 million, representing 85% of the total amount. So the European Union provides 85% of the funding for the Regional Competitiveness Operational Programme. The rest of the funds are provided by national authorities, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds, the Ministry of Science, education and sport and end-users, primarily local and regional self-government units. The implementation of this operational programme shall be subject to the necessary funding in the national budget for 2013, as well as in the projections for 2014 and 2015. And another time to repeat what is fundamental, the objective of the Operational Programme "Region competitiveness" is investment in business, tourism and scientific research infrastructure and direct support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. One part of the funding is also leaving for the preparation of future projects, which is very important to us because these are precisely projects that we will later continue to finance from the Structural Funds of the European Union and we also have one part of the allotment relating to strengthening the capacity of the institutions implementing the operational programme. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37341	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I don't see anyone. Thank you very much. Then we'd move on to a debate on behalf of the clubs and we've got a registered speaker, it's on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the esteemed representative, Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37342	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's because I'm the only one who's going to argue, I'm going to try to be as brief as possible, but since we're talking about European funds, in this case still accessible, we're about to enter the European Union, and I think this is important, and I've made a little effort to tell myself and the public about what this is really about. So this is actually to shorten this whole story, to change the financial agreement for the Operational Programme Regional Competitiveness. Unlike some of the previous acts, I have to say that this is very good both formally and meaningfully explained the need for its immediate adoption, but I think it is necessary to say a few words about what it is to round the whole. So again it's about the IPA program and it's not about to retaliate its components, so five components: capacity building, institution building, cross-border cooperation, regional development, human potential development and ultimately rural development. This is the third component, therefore, which contains three sub-components which are expressed by operational programmes, so transport, environmental protection and ultimately regional development. I'm saying all of this to get a slightly wider context, just to see who they are and to direct the correct references to further discussion. So as a fellow deputy minister has said what period it is, so what is important for the public is very easy and very easy with little effort we can calculate how much money from the national budget goes to co-finance these projects through four ministries, so the economy, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and the Ministry of Science and Sports. So that's what we're talking about, in fact, the segments of the amendment to this agreement. The deputy stressed that the funds will be used for investment in business, tourism, research and as source support for small and medium-sized enterprises, but will also be used for technical support for the implementation of this programme. As ironic as that may sound, I've given myself a little effort, so I watched the program really complex and these funds are more than justifiable and how well I counted it would amount to somewhere around 9% of the total funds. So this first segment is necessary, the funds are necessary for the implementation of projects and I think it's very acceptable in that sense. The second part concerns updating the name of institutions and contacts, and I cannot help but notice that with the four ministries that I have listed as a contractual body, the Central Agency for the Financing and Negotiation of EU programmes and projects is also listed. I have to say that part isn't very clear to me, so here's the deputy, maybe she can listen to me if she can answer this. So, I'm talking about the agency, the Central Agency for the Financing and Negotiation of the Programme, which is thus listed with four ministries. We also have the Agency for the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, and at first I thought it was not about EU projects, but later I saw that it was not true, so I have to say that I am confused. Therefore, the Agency, which is just called the Regional Development Agency, is not very concerned with programmes related to regional development, so on regional competitiveness, but rather with one other agency. I have to say that when we have two agencies under one ministry and by the name of one it suggests that she could be the one to conduct... The program, so we see it's different. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I don't want to speculate anything. I'd just like to explain it a little bit, because I think maybe those houses aren't really complicated right now, they're not structured right now. Here we come soon, there are conditions for entry or structural funds. So, entering the EU, so maybe we should, that's just a suggestion, I don't know if I'm right to lay down houses so that we have a structured not to change it every bit. It's exactly what I've stated that maybe it'll deny some story that it's already complicated and that's how it is. It seems to me that if anything else can create some bad or wrong assumptions. The third segment is updating the list of indicators and I'd like to make a few notes there. So, as far as... The improvement of the development potential of less developed areas can say that performance indicators such as the number of jobs, the number of found small, medium-sized enterprises have been set up very ambitious but will be easy to measure and these indicators will be very easy to measure by 2016. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the same applies to measure one, so on a special infrastructure and also to improving the business climate, which is priority two. So, strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. I think indicators such as county aid provided, special assistance service experts, business support institutions provided with assistance, small and medium-sized enterprises that received assistance, clusters, etc. I don't think they can be an indicator of the goal, hence improving quality and support mechanisms available to investors. If only someone has received help does not mean that this help and achievement of the final goal, it does not mean that it is an improvement in quality. There we may measure an increase in availability, distribution. But the quality of support can only be measured by an impulse of satisfaction, or by measuring what is achieved in this direction, rather than simply by indicating the number of those who have received it. It always reminds me of the number of nights in tourism, the number of nights is so much, and in fact what's behind it, we're never sure. Well, here's my note, and it might be good to think about it, but I think if the indicators are fulfilled, I think we should report this home to them because I think they're the essence of these programs at all. And finally, we have the fourth segment of the amendment that relates to adding a list of major projects. I noticed a project there, it's so-called. Incubation centre for bioscience and commercialisation of technologies that should be completed by 2014 and it mainly comes down to the construction of a new incubation centre in the area of campus of the University of Borongaj. Therefore, the supply of equipment for central laboratory units etc. It sounds great to me, but as with many stories, I wouldn't want it to be just a fairy tale, so I'd ask if it's possible to say more about that center, say something about the project, just make it, about the activities and everything that the center should do and how it should work. And by the way, I think this act is worth accepting, and I think it's good, and I would like to appeal that the government and all other acts is sending in this form because I think that's what it takes to be able to clearly and reasoned and discuss and understand it. So we support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37343	Thank you very much. Since we do not have any other clubs or individual debates, whether or not a representative of the motionary, respected Deputy Minister Dr. Smudge to give the final word? Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37344	I'll just take a brief look at the observations of the esteemed representative. So this really is about one call a technical amendment to the law that actually allows for the use of additional funds for a year and a half. And there are some minor technical changes in the text itself, so the operational programme that has been confirmed by this law, relating to the so-called ". An indicative list of major projects that really consists of only one major project, which is the mention of the bioincubation centre of science and the University of Zagreb and of certain indicators that we have updated since over time are bodies that run a reality awareness programme, i.e. the objectivity of certain indicators. As regards the management of the operational programme itself, the question is why the Agency for Regional Development, which bears that name, does not participate in the management structure of this operational programme, which bears the name regional competitiveness. I will first and foremost highlight the question of history, so the moment when it is defined who will manage this management program. The Regional Development Agency didn't even exist. So, I'm talking about a period that before, which refers to years like 2006, when the system itself was defined and then we were the strongest implementing body in the Republic of Croatia was then the Central Finance and Contracting Agency. And that's actually the point of the story, which is why SAFU, so the Central Agency has been chosen as an implementing body. It is still really our largest implementation capacity in this country as regards the use of European funds and we intend to continue to develop and strengthen it. The Agency for Regional Development has found its place under this EU sun in cross-border cooperation programmes. Cross-border cooperation programmes are also part of the story of regional development. So there's no dispute about slightly different types of projects, so it's about smaller projects, but all these are development projects that are very important for this country and that have shown their value. I have repeatedly explained here the different laws in the area of cross-border as well as transnational cooperation from which the value of these programmes is visible. It's all warm-up. I would just like to repeat that all that we have done during the pre-accession period and this operational programme and these changes are actually the introduction to what awaits us next year. The operational programme, which will cover the 2014-2020 period, will lead to a different form. So what we as a government now represent to the Parliament, this kind of contractual relations and legislative relations between the EU and Croatia that are then being broken in these things will not be next year. We're going to have our national operational programmes, and the government's representatives are going to come to the Parliament to discuss operational programmes, so let's say they don't have a procedural system like we do now. I think it's going to be much easier and more understandable for everyone because I really have to admit that when a material like this comes to the Assembly for those who may not have had so much experience with these materials, sometimes it's hard to really manage to see what it's all about. That's why we changed the system a little bit. So I hope this material was easier and more understandable to track than perhaps the materials of boredom. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37345	Thank you very much. We have completed the debate on the text of the law, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37346	Final proposal for a law confirming a financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending a financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a multiannual operational programme "Region competitiveness" to assist the Community in pre-accession assistance instruments under the "regional development" component in Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 328. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that this law has been adopted unanimously by 108 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37347	We would now move to the next point, which is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 285; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've already received the proposal. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You've received reports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you are, the Honorable Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Dr. Sinisha Hajdash-Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37348	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning first thing! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the Sea, in addition to harmonising with the acquis, adopts the EU and I will say a few innovations. First of all, they refer to environmental protection where both port captains and concessionaries in port areas actually prescribe obligations that are very rigorous and which aim not only to maintain quality I will tell the Adriatic from the aspect of environmental protection but also very high scales of environmental protection through the regulation of standards, and I will also say instructions on how to manage waste right now. On the other hand, the level of safety rises, and I will say avoidance of damages in maritious traffic, which, of course, binds to special tow rights, and thus also gives greater responsibilities to all participants in maritime transport, as well as obligations that move towards the postulate of passenger safety. Thus, in addition to postulates, the pay and postulate polluter must be protected, so to speak, the maritime code retains all existing rights of the seamen that were introduced in 2007, 2008, 2011 in the Maritime Code, which is that they are completely exempt from paying taxes on income if the vessels are more than 183 days. So none of the rights are diminished that in this one of mine to say so to a layered resistor is actually not a practice. Furthermore, I will say that the competent Croatian Register of Ships is left in relation to ships in national navigation although, of course, it is allowed to enter the so-called market. recognised organisations i.e. other insurance companies. It can be noted that for the first time, one category of intentional sinking of certain vessels is also introduced, which can later be used for specific forms of tourism i.e.. for diving tourism. So, with the previous consent of HHI and of course the port administrations will first be able to legally set out so to say the object submerged which later serves exclusively for tourist valorisation. I can conclude that we have also tried to ensure conditions for the competitive business of Croatian shipowners and for the competitiveness of Croatian sailors through the delay in the application of the tax per tonne until 1 January 2014. So, and through actually taking the tonage tax itself instead of the profit tax. Finally, to the greatest extent, we are rounding up the process of adapting and harmonising Croatian maritime legislation to the EU acquis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37349	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I can't see. Thank you very much. And then I open up the debate. The first to come forward for discussion was on behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37350	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister. First of all, let me point out that the Club of Representatives of the SDP imitates the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code that lies ahead. This proposal for a law is primarily in line with the provisions of our maritime legislation with EU regulations and with the Council Regulation on the freedom to provide services in maritime transport, the European Parliament and the Council Directive on port reception devices for ship and cargo waste, Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the liability of seafarers for passengers in the event of an accident and also provides for the application of the Athens Convention on the carriage of passengers and luggage of seas from 1974, as amended and supplemented by the 2002 Protocol, which, I recall, we ratified in February of this year. Through such harmonisation, but also through the regulation of certain provisions of laws which are not related to harmonisation, this proposal specifically provides for a higher level of protection for passengers in maritime transport in a way that raises the level of liability limits for shipowners. As we have already pointed out when we talked about ratification of the protocol, the Athens Convention of 2002 increases the ship's liability since it is limited, meaning, unlike for example, traffic accidents, where there is only a limit to the liability of the insurance company, in the case of maritime accidents the liability limits apply only to the shipowners, and it is also increased through the protocol and through this bill. Mandatory insurance shall be prescribed for ships of more than 300 gross registered tonnes which exceed the flag of the Republic of Croatia or agree to ports, thereby increasing the safety of the damages in the event of an accident, i.e. the collection of damages will no longer depend solely on the liquidity of the shipowner, but damage will also be charged on the insurance company. We consider it particularly important to highlight the strengthening of the framework for the protection of the marine environment from pollution caused by maritime navigation. This also provides for the adoption of a Strategy to prevent harmful transfer of marine organisms and pathogens through balance water. Today, it is through the transfer of these marine organisms and pathogens that very dangerous forms of pollution occur, namely how maritime transport has intensified through the balanced waters of ships, through the ships themselves, organisms from one part of the world to another, come into places where they do not have their natural enemies and they are very harmful to the existing ecosystem. When such an organism enters the ecosystem, and we have had the opportunity to see what it looks like with the famous alga killer, such an organism is extremely difficult to remove from the ecosystem and we have to act preventively to prevent, in order to prevent at all, to achieve that such organisms no longer come into contact with our natural environment. Furthermore, the ports undertake to accept and collect waste from ships by means of systems, and ship commanders commit to the surrender of waste. It's about one change in the law, it's about an increased standard that we consider favourable, of course it's going to cause certain costs. But we who live on the sea are aware and we have seen how often ships live, so sometimes not too far from the coast, garbage is thrown out of the ships, tanks are cleaned up, etc. Such behaviour is inadmissible, creating extremely large pollutants for our environment, and we believe that this law has good mechanisms to prevent future such behaviour. The minister was talking about getting things out of the sea, but I think this is particularly important to point out. In fact, the law stipulates objective responsibility for the owner of the crash. In this way, we ensure that we have an effective mechanism that will force owners to remove, or extract, dangerous submerged things, dangerous deluges. Because it's not just a danger to the environment that the ship, i.e. from the submersion, is a leak of oil from tanks, it's an extreme danger to the safety of navigation. We believe that this law, in this area too, has provided for quite good, efficient mechanisms, and we think that through its application, there will be a much faster extraction of submerged things and a much more effective removal of the groundwaters. Furthermore, provisions relating to the arrival of foreign, scientific research vessels are more clearly laid down, issues related to the navigation and stay of foreign yachts are regulated, a number of technical, no-technical improvements are adopted, in particular in the part of the safety of navigation, the registration process of ships, yachts, boats and others. Also, this law proposes extending the circle of shipowners who would pay taxes instead through profit tax through a flat-rate tax per tonne, regardless of actual profit or loss in the tax period. Such a measure is aimed at increasing the competitiveness of shipowners on the world market. Tonage tax will also be applicable to ships in international line transport within the Adriatic Sea. The right to apply to the Tonnage Tax System refers to a 10-year period beginning on 1 January 2014, and the right to apply to that Tonnage Taxation System would be granted to shipowners as of 1 July of this year, i.e. with the accession of the EU Republic. In short, this mini reform further improves the Croatian maritime law system, also harmonizes with relevant European and international standards, which is why the bill should be supported. However, just as we have said, this law introduces additional, higher standards so that we have to ask the ministry that after the adoption of this law very carefully, very closely monitors the implementation and informs, as necessary, this home of the results we expected, that is, by adopting this law. Here, I'll point out one more time, the SDP counseling club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37351	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the HDZ club, the word will be taken by the respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37352	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club will also support the proposal to amend and supplement the Maritime Code. In doing so, we will give one amendment and one suggestion given that the Government, given the article on which we would also submit the amendment is not changed, and then we can invest the amendments, but we will also ask through the debate that the Government accepts the HDZ Club's amendment. First of all, I want to say something about the applicable maritime code adopted in 2004 and which marked the new process in the development of Croatia's maritime and Croatian maritime economies. The current maritime code, which was changed on two occasions, brought three important newspapers that allowed Croatia's state and ships sticking to the Croatian flag to be absolutely competitive, and I dare say the most competitive ships and shipmen on the world market. In 2004, we made it possible for Croatian shipmen who were in the majority of the flag states of convenience such as Malta, Senfice, Panama and Liberia to subscribe to the Croatian register of ships and then wind up the Croatian flag. For what? Because we made it possible for the world market to grow during the great conjunctures of the world market, when the world's shipowners and then Croatian shipowners to make enormous profits, when there was a strong need and demand for the maritime space that was then adopted, it was possible for Croatian shipowners to be freed from paying taxes on profits in such a large amount of money, but what was good is that the profits and VAT paid by Croatian shipowners to the state budget were practically targeted at the restoration of the fleet. So today, the Croatian fleet is especially important Croatian boaters such as Atlantic navigation, tanker navigation, Oily sailing etc. be an extremely young fleet, which then makes it even more competitive in the world market to be restored and that we are able in this way and that they have accepted that these fleets are being refurbished as a rule in Croatian shipyards, which is then 2004, 2005 and 2006. It meant a lot for both Uljanika and Brodo Split on the third of May. So through one measure that allowed us to keep full profit and then I say in times of great conjuncture of the world market and the demand for ship's spaces was enormously large in a way to restore the fleet of Croatian shipowners, Croatian commercial fleet and to enable the work of Croatian shipyards. This was the first I would say reform that was made in Croatian maritime and the second was related to the health and social status of Croatian sailors. By then, I can say there was a pretty messy status of Croatian sailors and all 500 or 600, 25 and 6 thousand Croatian sailors were introduced into the Croatian work and social system. We then made it possible for Croatian sailors not to pay income tax on the basis of the revenues achieved in international navigation, but rather that, according to the level of the average salary in Croatia, seafarers who sail international navigation pay obligations to the state budget, which resulted very quickly in more than 14 thousand seamen being introduced into Croatian working social status for a very short period and thus allowing their social security for them and their families. And there it was done in this way, and on the other hand, it was possible for those same sailors to be exempt from paying income taxes regardless of the amount of earnings they make in international navigation that if they sail for more than 183 days in international navigation. What is not done in this budget is not done, in this maritime code is not done and I do not think that the maritime union has proposed it, and we at the HDZ Club support it is that in those 183 days, if the seamen spend in the international navigation of the tax exemption on income, they are included in those days when they cannot sail because they are on sick leave. In view of the fact that this provision stipulates that the seafarer is exempt from paying income tax if he spends more than 183 days in international navigation is good, he has been resolved four years ago but through the implementation of this legal option, a lack has also been identified because, for example, if the seafarers are sick, then they are unable to sail at that time, and then the taxpayers are the taxpayers of income tax. Although in the current maritime code, it is possible for seamen to account for their illness but only if the sick start on board or on their way home. I think a lot of times knowing the diseases that the seamen suffer from, or 15 days after they return from sailing, and then it's strange that here's the government doesn't allow them to have such an opportunity that the disease that occurred after they've been back from sailing doesn't count on this censorship of 183 days. Another thing I would also like to point out is the possibility that this law allows and clearly in the process of compliance with the EU acquis that all passenger ships that sail to Croatian ports do not have to use the services of peddlers or port pilots. From the point of view of the safety of the marine environment, from the point of view of the safety of navigation, it seems to us that such a provision is dangerous and that it would be good for us to make an amendment in that sense that the minister, that such a provision remains, but provided that ships flying the flag of the EU Member States are allowed to sail to Croatian ports without the use of port pelari services, or port pilots, but under the conditions prescribed by the minister. So, what's going on now? It is now happening that Croatian ships, for example, of Jadrolinia that sail to Italian ports must use pilot services and those same ports when the Italian ships are boarding must use pilot services. But when they come to the Croatian ports then the ships of Jadrolinia do not have to use this service which clearly increases the price of the map and makes them uncompetitive, and Italian ships, for example, that come to Split, Zadar or Dubrovnik, have to pay for it. Since due to the clear equalisation of market access, we must enable a single approach to the Croatian market after 1st July, it will now occur that certain ship commanders who first sail to Luka Zadar, Luka Split, Luke Dubrovnik have no experience of having no maritim characteristics of such port and can happen to actually create a major maritime accident that can endanger both the marine environment, such human lives. In order for this not to happen, we are proposing that the amendment will make it possible for the minister to provide for conditions for ships or commanders who operate ships and sail to Croatian ports to release the obligation to use port pilots or seines. I think that's good. I leave the Minister an opportunity to prescribe the conditions on the one hand, and on the other hand we want as a state which is a maritime country which is one of the cleanest and most beautiful world must remain protected, so that it remains clean and that during the summer, when extremely large maritime traffic is in Croatian ports due to the ignorance of maritime characteristics and navigational characteristics of certain ports, traffic accidents occur because of the fact that the commanders who first come to these ports and then do not use the services of port pilots. Furthermore, what is also important is the fact that, after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership in the EU, clear cabotage is made possible, i.e. the provision of maritime transport and transport of passengers and goods to the Croatian territorial sea, to all shipowners coming from EU Member States. It should be pointed out that through the negotiations in Chapter 14 of the maritime transport section, we have provided a transitional period for national liner maritime transport, passenger transport by the end of 2016, which means that our passengers will practically still be without competition for the next 4 years but 1 January 2017 also in maritime passenger transport in Croatia. That is why it would be good for the ministry to now start tendering for concessions in passenger maritime transport and that our passenger shipmen or shipmen carrying out passenger transport in the first row of the national shipowner Jadrolini are even better prepared for that period when the cabotage will be made possible for European shipmen. Another thing to mention is the fact that since 1 January 2015 this same cabotage will also be made possible to the tourist ships of EU Member States and that this privilege in the territorial sea between the Croatian islands and Croatian ports will be provided only by Croatian shipmen will no longer be such. It would therefore be good to consider in that part how and how to help Croatian small boaters owners of those small wooden cruises or cruises they perform and provide this nautical service between the Croatian islands and along the Croatian coast to further strengthen them to be more ready for the moment when this same activity and European shipmen are enabled. We also received a comment from the HDZ Club on the part of fishermen in the Republic of Croatia complaining about the complicated procedure of verifying the regularity of fishing vessels between 12 and 24 metres in length, holding when the harmonisation of the Maritime Code with the acquis of the EU and in the part of the procedure of verifying the regularity of those vessels between 12 and 24 metres in order to ensure that there is a procedure such as in the EU. If this is the case at this time, and I know that it requires major changes in the entire maritime administration system, then in any case, the Croatian ship register should significantly reduce prices for these ships between 12 and 24 metres because it also makes them uncompetitive. And another remark from Mr. Minister that I think you should consider concerns the work of port captains. The port captains are extended hands of the ministry along the Adriatic coast, I think there are over 65 or 6 such facilities along the Adriatic coast and according to my knowledge, and I think there are quite accurate major personnel problems of these captains' equipment. I will highlight the example of Vodice, which was also mentioned a few days ago by the Mayor of Vodice, and I will highlight the problem of functioning of the port captain's station in Veli Luka. In fact, there's been a captainship in Veli Luka for over 120 years, and this summer, we'll be waiting for the first time without going to the port captain's office, and until two, three years ago, there were four employees working there together with the port captain. Which for the safety of sailing, which for nautical tourism, which for interventions in the rescue of the troubled at sea means port captainia should not be explained. It is incomprehensible that retirement and replacement of employees in the port captainship in the state administration are considered new employment. So I ask you that in those outposts, I think that's what many mayors, mayors, mayors all over the coast are looking for, in numerous branches of port captains along the Adriatic, port captains along the Adriatic, where port captains, where employees of port captains have retired to complete these jobs, given the great obligations that especially in the tourist season have port captains. Don't let many failures happen because of the unhappiness of port captains, that because of the inability to monitor and control the territorial sea must happen in the Adriatic because it would, in any case, not contribute to Croatia's image as an exceptional nautical, maritime tourist destination. So here, in that sense, I ask you to really do everything possible to enable the regular and normal operation of port captains. Here, along with these amendments that I have said, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this proposal to amend and supplement the Maritime Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37353	Thank you very much. The next speaker will be on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, the distinguished representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37354	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm not a seaman, and I don't come from this area, but as a member of the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee, I got like all the other members of the different materials from I have to admit a lot of associations. Since it has been established practice in this House that everything that comes, every proposal that comes from the opposition to be rejected with a lot of understanding for everything that stands in our proposals. I appeal on behalf of the Association of Marine Pellars, Association of Professional Fishermen Mara Croaticum, Independent Maritime Union, Passenger Ships of Croatia, Community of Croatian Associations of Marine Captains and Trade Unions of Croatia to representatives of the ruling coalition that this topic is close to coming up with their proposals that will offer solutions to these problems that they state. And the problems are really living. They, too, are citizens of the Republic of Croatia who face this and who, in their work of functioning and life, have major problems precisely because of the facts mentioned here. So let me start by some order, Article 29. The bill provides for the addition of Article 70(2) to this, my predecessor spoke and the words "paragraph 2" are added. Which is behind the words: "Croatian passenger ships" add the words "and passenger ships that hold the flag of a Member State of the European Union.". At first glance, when I read the text of the bill, it was the most common agreement, i.e. a simple compliance with the regulations of the European Union, but one of these associations warned about the problem that arises, which is that no country of the European Union has such a regulation that practically frees all carriers, regardless of what they say, does not know the ship's release status, depending on the type of ship, passenger or freight or the nature of navigation, but free already allows those persons, i.e. commanders who meet the relevant requirements. In this regard, I support my colleague Bačić's proposal to use the sublegal act to make use of his ability to prescribe what conditions such a thing would take into account and, at the recommendation of the Croatian Association of Pellers, we have also prepared an amendment for this part. The second problem related to the Maritime Code relates to Article 5. The maritime code, which is not in this bill of law, defines the term of the ship or ship. Such a definition as it is in our Maritime Code does not exist in the countries of the European Union. Like what? in Slovenia, the fishing vessel sailed over 24 metres long and when entering the European Union Slovenia was a fishing vessel and now it is a boat. For those of us who aren't exactly from that dam, it may seem a little strange to us, but it's obviously from the Naval Code and all of those, everything that comes from being important differences. There are important differences not only in the name, there is a difference in the length of the ship, there is a difference in the number of checks, there is a difference in the price of these checks. The argument which led to the rejection of this proposal was that one of the arguments was that it would affect security. However, the indicators show exactly the opposite. For example, only 0.3% of registered boats participated in maritime accidents, unlike fishing vessels that participated with 12% of registered funds. I already mentioned the prices are drastically different. And now I can't take the impression, I won't sin on my soul, but whether someone has easily crossed that provision or is, I hope it's not the goal of knowingly destroying Croatian fishermen, because it's obvious that people are crying out for help. And if both MPs and representatives of the ministry or the minister present, if they do not show their understanding, unfortunately, it will come down to their failure. In addition, they propose four points, the first is to examine species the size of fishing vessels over 12 metres of Bajdarian length equally with reviews in the Adriatic Sea such as in the neighbouring countries of Italy and Slovenia, that the price of these reviews be equaled as in Italy and Slovenia, i.e. that the review is carried out every three years with a cost of about 500 euros as in Italy or every two years with a price of approximately 350 euros as in Slovenia. They also require that equipment or rafts be carried out and other checks carried out by port captains, that permits and calls be equaled to non-liberal vessels from 12 to 24 metres of length of Bajdar as in Italy and Slovenia and that Article 5(4) be made. The maritime code shall comply with the rules for fishing vessels such as those laid down in the European Union. There is another article of the Maritime Code that has caused a lot of dispute amongst the seamen, and is mentioned by my predecessor, and it refers to the famous 183 days of sailing in international navigation. In addition to the income tax is one of the items which attaches seafarers who cannot achieve 183 days due to their illness, they are further attached to that tax and cannot achieve navigation, i.e. do not make income. There is an alternative, i.e. there is a possibility proposed by the Community of the Association of Marine Captains of Croatia in such a way that in the last 183 days there is a number of sick and sick, but that there is also a mandatory education or training that sailors must perform. They warned of another detail that because of the regulation, these trainings are often done in neighbouring countries, Montenegro and Slovenia for exactly the reason to achieve those 183 days. And that's why we're basically profiting from these maintenance of such educations, or I don't know what their professional term is, and we moved it to other countries, and with that, we lost profits, we could have kept it all together with us. I think the principle is a very simple solution, very simple, just needs to show good will by the ministry. And that's about it, I have to admit that my colleague Bacic took most of it away from me because it seems that, although he from his own experience, and I from the preparations we received as members, both as members of the same board, we practically had the same material to prepare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37355	Thank you very much. We have one replica of respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37356	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is a colleague, so one claim that you have made in fact one request from Croatia's fishermen is that they are asking for the price to be examined by ships to be equal with the prices of boat reviews in Italy and Slovenia. This information certainly says how expensive the Croatian state is. So instead, given the standard of citizens, given the economic conditions of this price, our fishermen would be happy that these prices are equally strong with far stronger economic countries, at least as far as Italy is concerned if not Slovenia. Well, I'm sure we should appeal to the legislator to respect that because we need to make these fishermen, like you said, survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37357	Thank you very much. The replica will be answered by the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37358	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Vuksic, the thing is that the intensity of these reviews is quite different in the countries mentioned, Italy and Slovenia than in our country, and then it's cumulatively collected, so they agree to the prices that are in the neighbouring countries of Slovenia and Italy, but that the intensity adapts to that. What I may have forgotten in my discussion may have been the problem of the benefits of a work experience that is also a problem for our sailors. There is one illogicality in the Law of the Sea that gives these people the opportunity to exercise the right to an underprivileged job experience, but with the obligation of the employer to pay it. Now, just explain to me how you can, say, force a Panamanian shipman to operate under Croatian laws. I hope no one expects the same thing and vice versa, that someone on their ship from Panama will respect our law or ours. There is a very simple solution to this only if again if there is hearing, which is to allow the seaman himself to make payment for the benefited or extended period with extended duration. Unfortunately, however, we have received information from the seamen’s associations that, unfortunately, there is no hearing. There's no hearing from the ministry. But I appeal again to representatives of the ruling coalition who are from that branch, who represent these people, who know what it's about to try to push that proposal because the proposal without a basis, is not something people would say over a cake. This is a real request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37359	Thank you very much. We would now move to the next club of MPs and this is the Club of HNS Representatives, whose name the distinguished representative Petar Baranovic will speak for. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37360	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. ... on behalf of the Croatian People's Party on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, an emergency procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll be as honest as usual as something better to know this matter if I had a choice I wish it was two readings. But what's done is done. It is a very important matter and something that defines the business of a large part of the economic operators, legal and physical persons in the Republic of Croatia. Appreciateing the situation and the fact that Croatia is a maritime country, an extremely maritime country, although we may not be aware of it. These are the important things we touch. This law, of course, is part of the process of harmonising the law of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU, harmonising with various regulations and decisions, directives and it is touched in this part of these amendments and additions to several important things. I'll comment on them. Maritime cabotage, which also means the entry of foreign shipmen into the area of providing passenger transport services in certain categories when it comes to providing services in cruise after 2015, is certainly something that will create great difficulties for our boaters. Because we know that in Turkey sleeps a fleet from which we sometimes rip off which crumbs, we buy, we translate under the Croatian flag, and I'm just an example of Turkey becoming a power in the business, but it is already in the Mediterranean, so I'm going to give an idea without a complex and no pardon how we solved it when it comes to fishing we introduced the number of licences. We have an argument for this and the number of cruisers providing this type of service can be limited to the argument that the eco-system of the Adriatic can handle a certain number of vessels, not by this means affecting the principle of a free established company and the movement of capital of the EU acquis. So it's a matter to think about and the thing is certainly the task of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connection to do everything by protecting their interests, that is, the interests of our shipmen because everything is fleeting, and the interest is eternal. This is how EU member states operate, and since we prefer and already have, we start acting like Europeans without a pardon already with one and a half legs in the EU. The status of the Croatian Register of Ships by reading this law is clear that we have in a certain way protected the current monopolies position of the Croatian Register of Ships. I will not comment further on the fact that this is a little questionable to me from the aspect of this one of the fundamental principles of one of the fundamental principles of the EU's functioning, and that freedom is created. Whether this will pass or not will show time, however, the Croatian Register of Ships as a good acquaintance of the institution will not comment further because it is very likely to go into a debate that would not be pleasant. Also, what I am absolutely positive in this proposal for amending and supplementing the Maritime Code is the detailed development of certain preventive mechanisms to prevent environmental protection, i.e. the marine eco-system, the regulation of certain obligations, the regulation of mandatory insurance obligations for the compensation of such damages, and I am particularly pleased that as far as they can read this law create assumptions for simpler, faster and more efficient procedures for the management of abandoned substandardised vessels known by shipowners when they stop being profitable and are no longer possible in the exploitation of maritime transport, then they are left in our ports. So we had a crash case of the Serina motor ship, which had been rotting in the Sibenik port for six years even though it was supposed to end up in some port nearer, but politics determined it to be Sibenik, so suddenly from the northern Adriatic, it arrived in Sibenik to grace the city for six years. This resulted in no small cost of course paid by the Croatian State and very likely the price that was finally after 6 years of calvary with that ship did not cover anywhere near the cost, not even close. The ship was as we say the seamen had been breached, received the sea and believed or not six years had been paid for by crews that pumped the ship with pumps because we had an excessive procedure. Also, I will refer to what fellow predecessors, counterpart Novak and counterpart Bačić have mentioned only on the issue of the rights of seamen to tax exemption and that censorship of 181 or 3 days. Common are cases, there are previous speakers quite right that people do not get 183 days due to health problems, and the problem with what time is spent on training that has been frequented, very rigorous, is absolutely not appreciated. If this is done in Croatian universities, then it happens to us that people do so in order to get the right when they count how many days they spent on board go to seminars outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, where maritime universities in Croatia lose their income. And finally the fishermen. I am very pleased, never since the discussion of the ZERP announcement in 2003 was so much talked about fishermen in this House, so I am very pleased. And I liked it even more when my colleague Bačić talked about it, I remembered the meeting in the cube about 6 or 7 years ago in some very different roles when my colleague Bačić was a state secretary with then Deputy Minister Marija Babic and my little one tried to solve it with representatives of the famous Croatian Register of Ships. Today is 2013, we have that topic back on the agenda. And now I'm going to say something very clear on this subject right now at the very beginning. As president of the Croatian Fishermen's Union and the man who felt it on his skin, I tried to solve this problem on my colleagues' skin for about six, seven years without success. Governments have passed, the Parliament's call has changed, and I will now say very clearly that I expect my government to have this problem and this absurdity that has finally been solved on the back of Croatian fishermen for years. And now I'm going to explain why. According to the definition that this is a ship that is the general definition of the Maritime Code, each vessel has been in the ship for more than 12 metres and more than 15 g. This means, in practical terms, that the fishing boat is also 13.5 or 14 meters away if it is slightly more robustly built to enter under the regime of the Croatian Register of Ships, i.e. it enters the category of fishing vessel and thus under the regime of the Croatian Register of Ships. But there is not only a problem with the Croatian Register of Ships, there is a whole series of other things. What does it mean when the ship is a ship and it's not a boat? What does it mean when a fishing vessel has, in a specific case, sailed 14 metres with an average of 3 crew members in that regime? According to maritime regulations, such a ship, and its commander, each time it sails, should make a report of sailing with the crew's book, with all the other papers so-called. Roll, when sailing, you should also go do your part of the administration. According to the Marine Fisheries Act, there are a whole series of eyewitnesses, printers, forms that are also to be completed. All crew members on that ship shall have a matrix, i.e. a maritime book, and shall have specific qualifications to be placed identical to those for members of the crew of merchant ships. These exams aren't cheap, these exams aren't simple, these exams aren't necessary on fishing boats. The intervals of inspection of such fishing vessels in the Croatian Register of Ships are almost so identical to many larger ships that sail on much more demanding routes, which carry passengers, have much more demanding tasks. All of this accumulates and complicates the work on fishing vessels, the fishing sector, and what is particularly important in recent years after the crisis has taken place and Croatian fishing closes the possibility of normal crewing because on such a vessel you simply cannot find on the labour market a suitable number of qualified people who are ready for such low wages as they are today in Croatian fishing. We come to the situation that more and more of our ships are abandoned, that more and more fishermen of professional giving up and that people have growing and bigger problems. This also means that on such a ship of 13, 14 meters should be permanently boarded when the ship is in port for an untimely number of crew members. What does that mean? This means staying on a boat for 30 days that is completely unconditional for a longer stay, on which there are no real conditions for someone to stay normally. It's completely unnecessary and absurd. And finally the real truth mentioned by counterpart Novak can technically confirm it as someone who has participated in several actions to rescue the havared ships most of the ships that are suffering are just those who are so quality and rigorously reviewed by the Croatian Register. The boats that we examine ourselves with assistance, i.e. with the examination of the port captains of the ministry's representatives, have far fewer harariums and far fewer harariums with the final completion of the immersion. Let the gentlemen explain why? How is that possible? It's possible because none of us care more about our safety than we do ourselves. This is what I say in my first face today in this House as a fisherman, not just as a parliamentary representative. And this absurd situation, I appeal to the Secretary-General, we must resolve it. It's finally time to deal with it. We have full arguments and the EU's acquis is not at all an excuse because on the basis of common sense and pragmaticity, the EU is acting significantly different in this part. And in the Republic of Italy there is, of course, no one advocates the regime without supervision and control of technical regularity, but the exploitation regime of fishing vessels in the Republic of Italy is much more liberal, much more over, much more quality than we do. I won't talk about Slovenia, I won't talk about other Mediterranean countries. Finally, to conclude, the Croatian People's Party will support this bill, of course. It also implemented provisions that will make the Adriatic much safer in terms of protecting ecosystems and the environment. But ultimately, when it comes to what colleagues have exhibited on behalf of the captains' associations, it is on behalf of the fishermen' associations that have grounds, which have arguments, and especially when it comes to the request of Croatian fishermen to redefine the status of the vessel and their rights and obligations when it comes to it, it is absolutely justified. Because the thing about us all these years has been absurd. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37361	Thank you very much. The next speaker will be representative Josip Salapic of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37362	Thank you very much, dear President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, although I would like to make a contribution to this debate as a representative of the continental part of Croatia, because we believe in the HDSSB Club that the Maritime Code and Maritime Code is especially for this economic exercise at sea, very important for the prosperity of the Republic of Croatia, especially given the context of the new regime when Croatia becomes a full member of the EU. Therefore, this first part of this law and the basis for these amendments and additions to the Maritime Code, the further implementation of common law, the acquis of the EU, the Directive and the guidelines of the Council and the EU Commission are related to this issue. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, we will support, of course, this amendment that he gave on behalf of the Croatian Labourist colleague Novak on Article 29. We also appeal and support this request from the Croatian Boat Association, the Association of Fishermen, the Croatian Maritime Union, to resolve this issue in a manner that has been resolved in EU countries about the length of fishing boats from 12m to 24m in the way it has been resolved in EU countries for those reasons that both counterparts Baranovic and counterpart Bacic spoke. We still feel that it is necessary to help Croatian fishermen, given that such a provision under these amendments and additions to the laws is quite bad for them, therefore, and will question the implementation of their daily work. We therefore support this initiative and propose to amend this Maritime Code in this part, as we make amendments and amendments to the laws. We are particularly important in the same way as the regulation of the status of the Croatian Register of Ships, especially in the post-EU period. In order to preserve and raise above all a high level of ship safety in national navigation, but also to ensure that, in terms of the rationalisation and organisation of the maritime administration through the use of the available technical knowledge of the Croatian Register, the competences of the Croatian register of ships and ships, yachts and national navigation are prescribed. In addition to the above mentioned, the European Parliament's and the Council's responsibilities for passengers in the event of an accident, so we consider it important to regulate this issue, and in particular we consider it important to strengthen the legal framework when it comes to the protection of the marine environment from pollution caused by sea navigation, and to prescribe mandatory insurance for damage caused by ships in that maritime navigation. We also imitate these additional amendments to the law when it comes to the procedures for taking care of ships that are inert, so-called. The collapse, we heard from previous colleagues that up to 8 out of 10 years, some ships stand in ports, that they are inert and that they do, except that they do damage and damage to the environment. The law was changed on behalf of the code relating to rescue, and it is regulated in accordance with the 1989 Rescue Convention, so that further implementation of international law when it comes to maritime law, that is what we need to support. The HDSSB Club also imitates a different solution to questions about this 183 days on board or on land when it comes to the exemption from paying taxes on seafarers' income, we believe that this should be dealt with differently in the law and that the time spent possibly on sick leave, if there is such time, and the time that the seafarer spent in education should be recognised in these 183 days in order to therefore be free from income tax. Also, the introduction and different treatment of the tonnage tax which should therefore contribute to the further competitiveness of shipowners on the world market, we believe that this is a good solution that is within the law and that it will indeed increase the competitiveness of Croatian ships in passenger and liner transport and will therefore further stimulate the registration of ships in the Croatian Register of Ships. Here, in short these are the reasons why the HDSB club also supports the adoption of this code, noting to consider the initiatives of the Association of Fishermen, the Union of Seamen of Croatia, the Croatian Shipfarers' Association and these issues concerning this 183 days, we therefore support the proposals and amendments made by colleagues in front of the Croatian Labour and HDZ Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37363	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to an individual debate and the first to hear from the distinguished representative Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37364	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I answered, and I'm sorry that we got so little on this bill. I find the subject extremely important to all of us. Namely, Croatia is a land at sea. Thousands of miles of coast, thousands of islands, almost half of the Adriatic Sea and over a million people. More than a million Croatian citizens and citizens live on the coast and islands of the Croatian Adriatic, more than a million women, men, children, schoolboys, students, old people, all living on the Croatian coast and Croatian islands. In the summer months people come to the Croatian Adriatic on vacation, to enjoy and relax on the most beautiful sea in the world. Croatia has a thousand-year history and tradition of maritime, fishing, shipbuilding, trade, port business and management on and along the sea. During the past years in various countries of Croatia, in various ways, and some times more successful, it has used its natural wealth less successfully, from non-retva pirates or Dubrovnik merchant navy, to the port and maritime roads system. As part of Austria, we had the world's strongest shipbuilding, the strongest shipping company, the strongest port in the Mediterranean. With the development of tourism, we were now an increasingly attractive holiday country, for now only for vacation, and the ups and downs were constant and great. The worst relationship between the sea and the coast seems to me we have been able to show regret in our time, for the past twenty years. One part of it is certainly guilty and war, but in the vast majority of cases we are guilty of ourselves, it was amazing that this relationship was against something as valuable as the Croatian sea and coastal areas, it is amazingly simple for common sense to be incomprehensible, to ignore the developmental and economic most potential area of the state that is most potent in a much wider context than Croatia itself, but here we are. Today, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Maritime Code. This law applies directly to all Croatian seamen, whether they sail on domestic or foreign ships, as far as anyone who deals with any economic activity on the sea and on the coast, concerns fishermen, it is simply all Croatian citizens who live or operate at sea, and it concerns all others who sail, stay or touch the sea or coast in any other way. Over a thousand articles of the maritime code prescribes, determines and regulates the ways and relations of sailing, sea, island and coastal payment. In particular, the Maritime Code systematically regulates the most significant public legal, property-related relations with the sea, maritime navigation, activity and maritime vessels. Once again, the EU framework helps us to improve and modernise domestic legislation. This law regulates matters related to the provision of maritime cabotage, which are particularly necessary after 2015 to adapt our shipowners. This law speaks of port reception devices for ship's waste and cargo remains. The status of the Croatian ship register shall be regulated in the period following the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia. The implementation of the 1974 Athens Convention on the Transport of Sea Passengers and Bags is ensured as amended and updated the 2002 Protocol. Mandatory insurance shall be prescribed for ships of more than 300 gross registered tonnes that wind up the flag of the Republic of Croatia or land at ports or with coastal fixed facilities in sea waters under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia. The amendments to the law also significantly strengthens the very important legal framework for the protection of the marine environment against pollution caused by maritime navigation and provides for the adoption of a strategy to prevent harmful transmission, marine organisms and pathogens through balasic waters and commits port administrations and concessionaries of ports for specific purposes to adequately ensure a waste collection system from ships in accordance with international European standards and the ship commanders commit themselves to the surrender of waste. In detail, with a separate legal regime, the issues of the management of the immersed matter are regulated, the removal of the subsidisation. The law amends the provisions of the laws relating to rescue and is governed by the 1989 Rescue Convention. In line with the European Community Guidelines on State aid in maritime transport, the amendments to the 2011 Maritime Code have been fully exempt from profit tax, replaced by a system of tax per tonage, an important economic measure. This law extends the circle of shipowners who can use the right to pay toll taxes and to improve the competitiveness of the Croatian flag and attract shipowners to enroll ships in the Croatian register. As can be seen from the numerous improvements listed, they are introduced by this law into the maritime code. But we still face challenges in managing our sea, our coast, and islands. Croatia's entry into the EU only increases our responsibility for the protection of the sea and coastal areas and in both security and environmental terms. As humans, we are fortunate to have been born into a beautiful land on these latitudes with a pleasant climate and beautiful sea, probably one of the most pleasant areas of life. Our ancestors and various conquerors have left us with incredible monuments and incredible monuments of various cultures and different periods. We have the historical probably the most beautiful round cities and the rest of the cities in the world. We are aware that some of the periods of our history have not been very clever with the environment and exploitation of natural resources. In some cases, we were fortunate to have not succumbed or been unable to succumb to the overall devastation of space as it did in some other Mediterranean countries. Both our contemporary and world science and technology and our both world and modern knowledge are available to us and we are obliged to use them to design and ensure the rapid and diverse development and protection of the special wealth of the Croatian state, Croatian works of the Adriatic. On the coast and islands of the Croatian Adriatic, more than a million Croatian citizens and citizens live, more than a million women, men, children, schoolboys, students, elderly people live on the Croatian coast and islands. They deserve and the state is obliged to give them everything in order to develop their talents and desires through their tradition, their culture, their work and their desires and their ambitions. They have always been and remained and will be the greatest guardians of the Croatian Adriatic national treasure. We are all bound to help them and one way is to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37365	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, it is time for each individual debate to be reported. At this point, we have the final debate individually and this is Mrs. Anne Lovrin's distinguished representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37366	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's this amendment and the addition of the maritime code should certainly be supported for the reason it's actually a matter of compliance with the EU's acquis. But I will react here as a lawyer and as someone who advocates the quality of the legal texts, and therefore I appeal to the applicants now and in a number of other cases of law-proposing that they are put into regular procedure. I know that I will probably be answered that this is a European law, that it is in line with the acquis and the directives, but there is no ban on it to be released especially when it is so extensive with 150 amendments and additions to the regular procedure, because then we could improve the text. It is certainly necessary to support provisions protecting the Adriatic Sea from pollution so as to develop protection against sea pollution. Also, simplifying the removal of the undermines are all good and quality changes, stricter provisions on insurance measures when boarding ships with dangerous loads, these are mainly related to these changes. But another significant change, and that's an amendment to the cabotage provisions. Namely, as we know by the legislation so far, cabotage could carry out traffic between domestic ports only ships of Croatian state origin, so Croatian flag ships. Of course, because of the European directive, freedom of movement of goods and capital requires that the directive also allow EU shipowners to make cabotage in inland seawaters and between domestic ports. But I would refer to this article 6 that is changing the current article 9. In fact, it may have been quite undetectable, so far the provision allowed only domestic ships to transport between domestic ports but it was one exception when the ministry could approve otherwise but under strict legal conditions and it was only two cases. So a case of empty containers in their exploitation or a foreign boat yacht or boats when they carried persons and things between Croatian but, if justified by Croatian economic interest and with previously obtained opinion of the HGK. The following is now taking place, apart from the directive and negotiated positions with a delay until 2014 for a cruise or until 2016 for passenger traffic, the cabotage here is allowed, although the law does not tell who but calls for the paragraph of Article 1 of this Article 9th you determine what is considered as cabotage, so now you are making a difference between coastal and island cabotage I don't know why, I don't see the point but it doesn't matter. You're saying it's a yacht ride and a boat inside internal seawater and a territorial sea with a charge. And in paragraph 2, you say "a maritime cabotage in the Republic of Croatia is carried out in accordance with an EU regulation governing maritime cabotage". In the opening provisions, we already have all the directives and decisions of the EU Council. They are written to know exactly what specific regulation this applies to, and in this sense there is no need to repeat it here, and it is also not known from this article that it is likely that cabotage can be done by ships of EU member states and internal Croatian waters. So it would be good if the law had no reason not to write it then that not everyone who wants to find out who can actually go and read and read the Council Regulation number one and the '92.itd. But now it has what is important to point out, which is paragraph 3. says "an exceptional minister can approve a third-country water installation of cabotage in the internal sea and the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia". So third countries are not Croatia and are not EU members. And look now, in fact, a minister with no criteria whatsoever, without any need to justify Croatian economic and economic interest without any consultation of the Ministry of Economy or the HGK as it has been so far, so by its discretionary decision of any third country, a third country ship can approve cabotage. We heard now I think that colleague Baranovic was saying that at all these cabotage provisions will make it difficult for our boaters, of course, because there will be multiple competition compared to today. And he mentioned mainly many Turkish cruisers who stand by just waiting to come to a new market and that offer probably their services at lower prices, etc., so certainly domestic economies are making the situation difficult. Which is why this law so benevolently gives the Minister the power to release ships of EU member states without any criteria or conditions, although the law has now extended it and, in fact, with a negotiated delay until 2016, to cabotage, but then beyond that, the Minister, as he will and whenever he will, writes in the law, I do not say that it will be quite a criterion or an evil thing for Croatian shipmen, etc., but what we assume is not enough. This is to be written in the law, and I therefore do not see why this provision did not retain the above-mentioned philosophy which said that it could only be exceptional in some cases and that this must be justified by Croatian economic interests when such services are not provided or are not provided by the service provider, domestic service providers and that the previous opinion of the HGK must be obtained. So I don't see why it's been dropped, which is an emergency, and I ask you nicely to use this transitional time that was negotiated until the end of 2014 or 2016 to use this provision of this law and to amend it so that you do not allow such wide-ranging on the Croatian market unconditionally when it is not necessary. On the one hand, we have fought against the entry into cabotage and ships of the European Union countries, and we have hardly negotiated and negotiated this transitional period, and on the other hand we are leaving third countries wherever they want and without criteria. Here's what I'm really complaining about, and that's why I'm saying that there were two readings, and then some more provisions of this law might be discussed. We could suggest some better solutions that would remain in the context of the application of the European Union Directive. Because, of course, we must align our legislation with the directives, but this harmonisation can be more quality or less quality to the affected meaning of the directive in transposing our domestic legislation and with unaffected or unaffected or extended and introduced into legislation and what is not necessary under the European Union Directive. And that's why, and in cases where the laws are marked P.Z.E. It is not always necessary for them to be in an emergency procedure and for the sake of quality and security of meaning in law enforcement would be good if they were in regular procedure. Why am I saying this, because it is practically impossible, I would intervene with the amendment of this article 6 which amends Article 9 but is impossible to intervene in it and if the first reading then the proponent of this remark would believe because the benevolent ones were certainly taken into account. And I'm warning you, and then the transitional provisions saying that the minister is going to pass the cabotage rule, but that's not where he says everything he has to fix and what's prescribed in this Article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37367	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused three replicas. The first one is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37368	I thank Mr Vice President, dear colleague Lovrin, I personally am not afraid of cabotage, we have long negotiated with the European Commission on the outcome of a transitional period, as have other Mediterranean countries. Some more, some less. For example, Greece had received a long transition period from the check itself to give up unsatisfactory to its shipowners and wanted other shipowners to enter its market to strengthen the position of passenger traffic users in Greece. However, what has also proved to be a major entry in the country of origin after the cabotage was made available in the European countries, there has been no significant entry of other shipowners. But what I am afraid of, which I said on behalf of the club, is that the state and the ministry must not miss this period of 4 years, as long as we still have to keep the cabotage for the national shipman in the first row of the Adriatic but also other passenger shipmen and to spend that time without in any way forcing and helping our boaters to get new passenger ships for example for those islands in Croatia that do not yet have the benefit of carrying new ships. These are primarily the Sibenik islands, the islands of the Sibenik archipelago and the southern Croatian islands Šipan, Mljet, Kolocep and Lopud where the fleet of the national shipowners is not suitable for the 21st century and where a new competition would force not only Jadrolinija but also other potential interested shipmen to enter the process of rebuilding the fleet and to actually build vessels suitable for the islanders who live there and tourists who come to these islands. Therefore, through the procedure we received through the negotiation process and this transitional period, it was precisely targeted to enable shipowners to rebuild the fleet on the domestic market in competition with domestic shipowners. And then, by virtue of a contract signed with the State, they can carry out that traffic even after the period granted, that transitional period for cabotage has expired.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37369	Thank you very much. Your replica will be answered by the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37370	Thank you very much. Well, if you're not afraid of cabotage, then let's simplify that, the competition for Croatian shipmen. Then I suggest that this law article should read differently in a way that says that cabotage can, or traffic between domestic Croatian ports, be performed by anyone, anyone without any conditions. In that case, we do not need a provision under which we are now due to the European Union directive and because we have so signed in the negotiating positions that we will release ships from the Member States of the European Union into cabotage. And we're not going to do the third because it comes from the fact that we won't do the third unless the minister decides that without any conditions or criteria. If we're not afraid, then let's pass the law, or we don't prescribe conditions for cabotage at all, and then that traffic can be done by anyone or anything. I'm just warning that it can't if the law determines who can be left to the minister that and beyond that for third countries makes a decision without criteria whenever and as they will. Because then this whole law doesn't make sense. That provision is losing its meaning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37371	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37372	Dear colleague Lovrin, I will now follow up on this intervention of yours to say, I agree with you, your colleague disagrees and that is a replica, I will multiply in 151 examples of Klaic to see the vice presidents of the assembly which is a replica, which is not, although they are represented by great linguists but they are not. You said this, the minister allows discretionary decision or discretionary right to cabotage the ships of third countries without and without, can do so without any economic interest. I agree with you that the criteria should be laid down. The criteria should not be attributed to that the 20-year practice has not proved that ministers often harm the interests of the Republic of Croatia. They have generally protected interests or their parties or their coalitions or their personal interests so far. I believe Minister Hajdas Doncic is doing his job with honor, but this law is not written for Minister Hajdas Doncic, but this law is written for all ministers who will come after him and I would like this law to last for a long time, that we are not one of the countries that changes the laws every day like socks. I would trust that we are not one of the few countries that has on the accused bench a prime minister who has been accused of major crime, and is supported by some ministers. Therefore, I fully agree, for everything we prescribe, and yesterday we talked about some criteria, set criteria, whether it is prescribed in other laws of other European countries, so other European countries are culturally far away, when it comes to the environment in which policy works, far more advanced than we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37373	Thank you very much. I would only warn all MPs that, of course I have seen, I will give you my word, only to warn all MPs that, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, they are sticking to the subject we are talking about. And now he will respond to the replica of Mrs. Anna Lovrin's distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37374	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Vuksic, you've done well on the subject, but I'll be back on the subject of this Naval Code. Here you can see, during all the time that you talked about some of the past times, I read exactly the Maritime Code that was passed in 2004, it was amended in 2009 and 2011, and during that whole time, it said that only Croatian ships between Croatian ports could be used in the maritime code of cabotage, and that the ministry could approve only the transport of empty containers, only yachts or boats or ships, and that if it requires the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia with the previously obtained opinion of the Chamber of Commerce. That's how it's been since 2004. It is now proposed that any conditions be deleted and that the Minister be given the right to do so at any time, whether or not he likes it or not, but without any valid reason for him to make a decision to enter into cabotage third countries. I don't have to doubt it, and I don't want to doubt the good intentions and honesty of Mr. Current Minister, but the laws are not written to the person, not according to the current set, not according to the previous one, but written in such a way that they are clear and uniform in application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37375	Thank you very much. And the last replica is that respected representative of Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37376	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Lovrin, I absolutely support all of what you've said with my particular emphasis on these two readings, i.e. procedures. We now have a situation where we can change Article 70, or we can give an amendment to it, and it is extremely dangerous because it is also about ship safety. On the other hand, the shipowners are aware that the cost of the plowshare is an additional cost, and what can come out as a consequence can be one ecological disaster in any of our ports. For what? I believe it's some kind of oversight. I absolutely support this if no one went to write something with the intention of doing damage, but we have precisely for these reasons that you said, we now have a situation that we can't, for example, influence Article 5 that defines whether something is a ship or a boat, we can't affect articles 126 I mean to 129, which define the income tax of the seamen because the proposed text refers only to, if I'm not mistaken, I mean article 127 whose change would actually do nothing. Because this problem is covered through if I do not cheat on five articles and these five articles should practically be part of the changes and additions that might affect it. This could have happened, no matter what the law is European, it could have been done with two readings, I don't see the need for this. And an oversight can be made, to the best extent possible, to make an oversight. I don't see why every time we go with an emergency reading, an emergency procedure when there's a possibility, there's still enough time for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37377	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative Anna Lovrin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37378	Thank you very much. Well, as a member of the Legislative Committee, I systematically and persistently warn the committee that we are passing a series of laws in an emergency procedure against the Rules of Procedure, but most in the Legislative Committee do not respect and pass anti-business laws at the plenary session. And in this case, it is not counter-businessal because it is said that laws are adopted following an emergency procedure that comply with European Union regulations, but says if requested by the applicant. So Mr. Minister, when asked for it, did not harm the Rules of Procedure, but it would be better for all of us and for the quality text of the law as you have said and because of the extensive changes that this law went into two readings. All would be arranged, the directives would be applied, but certainly in one more quality way and the meaning of these provisions would be better incorporated into the legal text because, I firmly believe, the Proposer would take into account our observations, and this is how what we saw at this stage of the procedure is impossible to edit with the amendment. But once again, I appeal to the proposings and when the Rules of Procedure permits them to do so for the quality of the text of the law, and especially when there is no basis for the adoption of an emergency procedure in the Rules of Procedure, and we are day-to-day witnesses to have such laws passed and an emergency procedure voted upon and brought into the urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37379	Thank you very much. Here after this debate, I am convinced that all this will be answered in his closing statement by the respected Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Minister Dr Sinisha Hajdas Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37380	Thank you very much. One more good day. A very constructive debate, therefore, which she has and appreciated I will also say something that was in the previous period, and this is a broad public debate where actually all the stakeholders or... or stakeholders, therefore, involved in the creation of the Maritime Code itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's to us as a ministry, to me as a minister, of course, it's the goal of trying to nivellate, so different interest groups, and so on with the peddlers or pilots. So, I don't think there's any fear, so from the loss of income, because they're a loss of income, i.e. That income won't even have one. Because most ships, if they come, will actually be under some flags of convenience. So there won't be a problem with some reciprocity as far as Croatia is concerned, let's say Italy doesn't sail anyway. As far as I'm concerned, I've pointed out, so the rights of the seamen we've protected this level that currently exists in the situation as it is, especially with regard to the pension system and the recession situation, some additional rights. Right now I'm saying they're not possible. I'm not saying that sailors, especially those who sail for more than 183 days, don't deserve it, but I say in broad consultations with both the Ministry of Finance and other ministries, so this part is not possible right now. But it's important to me as a minister of maritime, transport and infrastructure that existing rights are reserved. As for both counterpart Baranovic and colleague from Labour, we say, that we are preparing a more detailed reform of the Croatian Register of Ships, which is why we will try to deregulate some of the regulations concerning fishing boats, but, of course, by leading above all to post-secure security. But we're preparing that part. As for cabotage and protection of Jadrolinija and other domestic boaters, I think that with this beginning of a mini investment cycle in Jadrolinia on these four new ferrys we actually make Jadrolini more competitive for 31.12.2016 or 1.1.2017 when the market opens. But, however, none will happen, I actually deeply believe no excessive shock for domestic boaters because the ministry, therefore, unbound who was, therefore, also prescribes the conditions concerning language and the quality of the crew and living conditions so that the practice so far has shown, in fact, that when opening the cabotage especially for passenger liner transport, therefore no one greater has happened to say turbulence and the market. And also from 1.7. It's also another measure to reduce excise duties on fuel for so companies. So, Jadrolini itself if I'm talking about a state company should be at least for two kunas and 30, 40 limes more competitive than she would ever use again, I say, to restore a fleet that is now on average to you for some 17, 18 years. So that's our investment cycle to make the national, state shipman more competitive. But I'm saying, thank you all for the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37381	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37382	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Until you make that reorganisation of the Croatian Register of Ships, I have suggested in my debate that the prices charged by the Croatian ship register for ships, fishing vessels today reduce ships between 12 and 24 metres and make them in line with the prices of fishing vessels less than 12 metres, or fishing boats. As far as cabotage is concerned, I will repeat again, so on July 1st, Croatian shipowners can make cabotage at EU ports. Therefore, it is a challenge for our shipmen to be able to participate in cabotage across Europe and it is not disputed. That's what I said in my presentation. The second thing is that you can base your own grades on cabotaging non-EU ships. It's dangerous. So in the part where we talk about cabotage in our navigation where we allow others there you need to do everything to strengthen Croatian shipmen for this transitional period. But it remains as controversial as possible that for certain activities, for certain activities of maritime activity, for certain tasks that take place in research or in certain specific jobs you make your own decision, you allow cabotage in the Croatian Adriatic to be carried out by third-country shipmen. There should be a provision in the Maritime Code that, under certain conditions that have been prescribed by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce so far, or that the Association of Shipowners Mare nostrum or someone third, if you do not like the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, that they give a certain way of consent that this job that a third country cannot be done in Croatia. That way, that provision might be justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37383	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed MPs of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37384	Thank you very much. Well, here's how I see Mr. Secretary on the line not responding, and I'm just about to say the same thing. Namely, Mr. Minister after, say, my debate on cabotage and, above all, on this paragraph of the third article, as amended in Article 9, which allows the Minister to make third-country ships by discretionary decision in cabotage. I expected you to tell us in your final address at least which one was at war with such proposed decisions. So, which has been at war with the provisions that you have now abolished in the law the existing conditions when the ministry can exceptionally allow a foreign shipping cabotage. We expected you to say some reason why you lifted the terms and allowed the minister to pass the legal provisions whenever he wanted to give permission to act anyway as it did not say in the law. Such broad powers, teaching the legislative authority to the executive authority, and not to the government, but to one minister, I have rarely seen the law so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37385	Here's Prime Minister Hajdash Doncic to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37386	Very short. It's a matter of responsibility. People are going to pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37387	Thank you very much. We ended up discussing the text of this law. We will vote on it when the conditions are met. And now we'd move on to the next law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37388	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Maritime Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 285. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments have been submitted, the special table of amendments is shared with the MPs. Please, Minister, Honorable Minister Sinisha Hajdash Doncic, let's go to the Minister of Honor. Amendment No 1 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37389	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen. Amendment No 1 shall be adopted in accordance with Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37390	Thank you very much. Amendment number 2 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37391	On Article 8, it is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37392	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final proposal. Amendment number 3 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37393	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37394	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment number 4 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37395	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37396	Amendment number 5 has been submitted by the Government, we do not vote because they have been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37397	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37398	Amendment number 6 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37399	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37400	Thank you very much. Amendment of Legislative Committee No 6. Amendment number 7 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37401	It's unacceptable. That article of the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code was deleted by amendment 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia [[Intruder: He retreats because of it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37402	Thank you very much. The amendment of the Legislative Committee has been withdrawn. Amendment number 8 of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37403	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendment is not accepted, here I will be careful, the amendment is not accepted because by accepting it would impose additional totally unnecessary obligations primarily on domestic shipmen who carry out the most... line transport in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37404	In the name of the applicant's club, the respected representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37405	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, it's a shame you didn't accept this amendment because you question the safety of Croatian ports. Namely, changes and additions as is known so far are Croatian shipmen who are in line sailing so you and the ships of the Croatian Navy etc. I have the right to enter without pelars, but I note that Croatian passenger ships that are in a regular line due to equality on the ship's market are now required to place ships with European Union flags on the same terms as Croatian shipowners. In this way, as we have proposed by amendment, therefore, to allow the entry of ships flying the flag of the Member States of the European Union without segregation, but if they meet the conditions laid down by the Minister. So the purpose of the provision for Croatian shipowners to enter without pelars was to know the maritious situation of certain Croatian ports. In this way, you would have prescribed by your regulation when it is assumed that the commander knows it when it does not, and that would be worth the same for all shipowners of both the Croatian and European Union shipowners, and thus Croatian shipowners would certainly not be at risk because their commanders in line know these occasions. In this way, in such a bad nomotechnical way, you have, however, expanded that for Croatian shipmen, this is true in regular line navigation, and for passenger ships, the flag of the European Union does not have a limit. I think it is bad and that you are really jeopardising the first safety of Croatian ports, and the question is whether you are bringing Croatian shipmen into an unequal position in relation to their access to the ports of EU countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37406	Thank you very much. Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37407	I'm asking for a vote, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37408	Thank you very much. I ask you to come forward with an amendment number eight. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment to the 9th Honored Representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37409	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation. Therefore, one of the fundamental principles of the EU, the principle of equality in access to the market, therefore, retaining different rules in relation to ships, Croatian flags, in relation to ships' flags of other Member States, would be unlawful discrimination. As regards safety, therefore, which is also related to one part of the HDZ amendment, so the previous explanation also explains the role of the pelar in relation to the ship's commander as well as other systems available to the commander, which Croatia has introduced precisely because of improving the safety of navigation and protection of the marine environment, which is our top priority and greatest concern. It is through all these VTMS systems services with port control centres that are paying the most attention to the ships during the boarding and sailing operation, giving them all the necessary instructions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37410	Thank you, too. The esteemed applicant of the amendment, there is no representative. We're voting on that amendment. Please state the amendment to the 9th Amendment by Mladen Novak, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendments 10, 11 and 12 were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so we do not decide on them. Moving to Amendment 13. The Legislative Committee. I'm asking the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37411	Amendment 13 to Article 116 shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37412	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37413	It is not accepted because the statement in Article 117 of the amended paragraph 3 was considered sufficiently clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37414	He's retreating because of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37415	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37416	Thank you very much. And we're going to Amendment 15. The Legislative Committee. Dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37417	Article 15 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37418	Thank you very much. We're going to amendment number 16. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37419	In Article 146, the amendment is therefore accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37420	Sustained?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37422	Okay. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37423	Articles 147, 148 and 149 are therefore not accepted as these articles concern transitional and final provisions. We moved that later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37424	Excuse me, Your Honor. Amendment 17 refers to Article 115 of the Law and to 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37425	If applicable to Article 115, it shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37426	Thank you very much. Yes, it becomes an integral part of the final proposal. Amendment number 18 to Article 115 also committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37427	It shall be accepted, with reference to the wording of the amendment: "in the added Article 823b. the words added to Article 823d should be replaced."
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37428	Okay. Consent? Representative. Yeah? Thank you very much. Amendment number 19. Legislative Committee on Article 116, respected ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37429	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37430	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment 20. The governments of the Republic of Croatia are in line with the Rules of Procedure, so we do not vote. Amendment number 21. Legislative Committee on Article 117, respected ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37431	It's not acceptable, because... in Article 113, in the amended paragraph 3, we consider it clear enough. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37432	Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn. Amendment 22. Legislative Committee on Article 146
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37433	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37434	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 3 to Article 23 to Article 147 of the Honored Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37435	It shall not be accepted, as those articles concern transitional and final provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37436	Thank you very much. He's retired. Amendment number 24 of the same Legislative Committee to Article 149
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37437	Article 149a. Or 149?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37438	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37439	That's acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37440	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. And finally Amendment 25. The Committee on Legislatives, Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37441	That's on article 150?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37442	It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37443	It is not accepted because that article of the final draft law amending and supplementing the Maritime Code has been deleted by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37444	Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn by the Legislative Committee. That's how we exhausted the list of amendments, the Honorable Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37445	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37446	I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most 102 votes in favour and 1 abstentions have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37447	The following law is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inland water navigation and ports, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 333; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites so first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You've received reports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Dr. Sinisha Hajdash-Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37448	Thank you very much. Therefore, the amendments and additions above all were corrected in the existing law in a way that the provisions which have been transposed into the law itself were abolished, i.e. in the procedure of legal adjustment of the commitments made under the Stabilisation Agreement. The same thing, of course, applies to cabotage. I can also say that restrictive requirements concerning the registration of vessel owners for natural and legal persons resident or established in an EU Member State are. It means, as vessels of enrolment vessels run by the competent port captain of internal waters are entered, and the responsibilities of the port captains of the internal waters are also defined when saving the vessel i.e. They shall be defined as competent only in cases of accidents where that is the cause of navigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37449	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. So then I can open up the debate. First, on behalf of the HDZ club, a respected representative, Branko Bačić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37450	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, The amendment and addition of the Law on Inland Water Navigation in the first place is to complete the process of harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquis of the EU and practically amends the existing law that has been passed and which has already been almost fully in line with the legal acquis of the EU. In a certain part of the leaning, if I may say so, it continues to discuss the recent debate when we talked about the Maritime Code for the reason that this law also allows cabotage, this amendment of the law, enables cabotage of shipowners on inland waters. Clearly, this is a commitment that we must implement by entering the EU, and this is what I said to Mr. Minister in the replica earlier, which is a chance for Croatian shipmen who are not strong in the European market, but nevertheless the chance that they can now carry out this very important, large, large-scale transport in the EU area. The traffic in Croatia is almost insignificant. In fact, if you look at the share of river transport in the Republic of Croatia, then we will see that it participates in Croatia with only 0.34% or about 100 thousand tonnes of cargo in the Republic of Croatia is carried out in rivers unlike road traffic where about 51% is performed and road traffic is participated somewhere about 15 million tonnes or maritime traffic that is participating about 25% or about 8 million tonnes. So this traffic in the Republic of Croatia is insignificant and is not suitable for the opportunities that the Republic of Croatia has when it comes to inland waterways. In fact, Croatia has a great predisposition to develop river transport from the fact that at the same time we are both a Danube and Mediterranean state and that our characteristic that we are in such a geotransport position has not yet been used. This law is on track, it is on the trail of domestic transport, but the law itself cannot do much unless it is followed by other measures that the Government must take to strengthen river transport. In past mandates, we have initiated several projects that should strengthen domestic waterway traffic, which is primarily rehabilitation of the Sava River waterway, which after 1990 and Homeland War has not yet been regulated, has not been rehabilitated and practically Sava as one of the main if not the most important waterways in the interior of the Republic of Croatia cannot meet all those opportunities that Sava had before. That is why the Sava Commission was established as an international institution whose aim is to contribute to the organisation of the waterway. Well, then it would be good, here's to Mr. Minister, if you can meet our parliamentary representatives, which is with activities on the rehabilitation of the Sava River waterway, which is an assumption of a better valorisation of the Republic of Croatia as a single transporter, as a country in a great geotransport position which could then clearly help the entire Croatian economy. We are also interested in talking about inland waterways whether the government continued with a project to build a multi-purpose Danube-Sava channel that would lead to the integration of internal waterways into the Republic of Croatia and would further strengthen the position of both Luke Vukovar and Luke Slavonski Brod, which would in some ways relate to the construction of this multi-purpose channel. So, in this work in which the law is aligned with the legal acquis of the EU, in the section allowing cabotage, in which it contributes to further protection of the environment of Croatian rivers, in the section relating to redefining port captainship status when it comes to river transport accidents. And what is good and acceptable in a certain way and our obligation is in the process of harmonising our legislation with the EU. It would be good, Mr. Minister, that since over the past year and a half, we haven't heard a word from the government about how and in what way he thinks about developing this kind of traffic, to introduce us to what and how the government is dealing with basic projects relating to the strengthening of river transport, i.e. inland waterway transport. The more I say, the two most important projects, which is the rehabilitation of the Sava River waterway and the construction of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel, were at a very high stage, the stage of the establishment of documentation that could be financed by the EU funds, because according to the EU transport policy, which was adopted as early as 2002, so-called. The Rotterdam Declaration, found that those types of transport that are friendly to the environment and in that part of the traffic is quite acceptable, are simply given to European funds and very, very much, are encouraged by the European Commission, subsidized by large funds as a rule. Therefore, in addition to this, I would say the short amendments to the law harmonising our legislation with the EU acquis, where and where other measures are more important, other projects that the Government is implementing to strengthen this type of traffic. Why does Croatia have great predispositions as a few countries, especially as few countries in Southeast Europe? We are not talking about countries in northern and western Europe, such as Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany where this type of traffic is well developed, I am talking about EU Member States that are in Southeast Europe who do not have such conditions that they can develop this type of traffic. And knowing how lower external costs are in river transport compared to all other modes of transport, both on road and on rail. In that part, it is clear that we will support the law that we are completing the process of harmonising our legislation with the EU acquis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37451	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37452	I would like to thank the Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here's what to say, this is another law of P.Z.E. thus aligning with the EU acquis. The only thing that we see, or what's new, is that amending the applicable law is also an opportunity to amend and supplement some other provisions in the law that improve the legal expression of certain norms or the development of economic relations has led to changes that require the need for a different legal norm. And that's what's really been used on this occasion. I think that, first of all, some concepts have been added and specific situations are more precisely defined which may arise in the transport itself, and I particularly find it interesting to Article 5, which regulates the situation of the secret withdrawal of the vessel from navigation and erasure from the vessel register, that is, their obligation to remove them from internal waters. Or so far there's been a conflict between concepts... vessels and the idea of withdrawing practically from navigation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now with this proposal for an article, that is, this bill is the situation of resolution and it is defined exactly what it means to remove a vessel from internal waters that two conditions must be met: a secret withdrawal from navigation and erasure from the vessel register. Then there is the article 7 which also includes the part concerning cabotage, which is what counterpart Bacic was talking about. I also think that it is good to regulate practically the Institute of Mandatory Registration and Faculty of Registration of a vessel, i.e. until the current Article 79(1) of the applicable law, the Institute of Mandatory Registration of a vessel owned by domestic natural and legal persons was prescribed, and the provision of Article 81(1) was made for the optional registration of a vessel owned by natural persons resident in an EU Member State, i.e. legal persons established in an EU Member State or whose majority owners are citizens of an EU Member State of residence, i.e. permanent residence or head office in an EU Member State. Translated this means that domestic persons could not enrol their vessels in one of the EU member states, and persons from EU member states were unconditionally allowed to do so. Such a liberal solution, apart from being illogical, is contrary to the provisions of Article 3. Conventions concerning the entry of inland navigation ships from 65 years and which entered into force on 24 June 82nd. Therefore, the proposed decisions of Article 79(1) shall be left to the Institute of Mandatory Registration of vessels and shall be prescribed to include vessels owned by domestic and foreign natural and legal persons and all in accordance with that Convention, regulations and practice of the EU. No objection is made to vessels owned by or shipowners of EU persons being discriminated against by vessels owned or shipowners of Croatian statehood. Next, by looking at the very proposal for amendments and additions, Article 13 shall bear its own newspaper, namely the conditions under which passengers or goods may be transported on internal waterways within a Member State may be transported to resident carriers. The amendment proposes that this may be a)home carriers, b) foreign carriers, with the prior approval of the Ministry of Internal Navigation and c) carriers from EU Member States, may carry out domestic transport under the same conditions as domestic carriers. I mean, given everything that's been said here, this is basically a chance for our carriers. Article 14 also carries the paper, i.e. more precisely defines the role of port captainship in the event of boating accidents, and I think it is good to define it that way because it is now becoming clear what the port captainship really needs to do. At the very end, the only thing I can say is that the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37453	Thank you, too. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37454	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The law itself is short, so it can't be like my predecessors having a very big debate. But I have a few observations if the minister has time to notice. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Where the additions 25 a and 25 b are mentioned, the domestic carrier, the foreign carrier is defined. But what with EU carriers, the foreign carrier is practically a third country. What about non-EU carriers, we are in a way, a failure has been made, are not classified in any category. In Article 7 or Article 79 of the basic text, this article shall be made possible by majority owners of vessels outside the Republic of Croatia and the European Union to sail under the Croatian flag. All it takes is to rewrite some part of the owner to a natural person, a citizen of the Republic of Croatia or to find a legal person with the power of the ships with which they make the contract and carry out the transport between the ports of the Republic of Croatia and the EU. As a rule, vessels with crews who are not citizens of the Republic of Croatia mean cheaper labour, it is also unfair competition. The legislator should explain what happens if the citizen of the Republic of Croatia is a smaller part of the owner of the vessel, say 0.04% and the other majority owners of non-EU citizens. I don't think this is in line with EU regulations, but it's back to that old story that it went into two readings especially this short of the law could change this way. I hope you find a way to make this change. What I'd like to say is that, since this is about inland waterways, I'd like to point out. It's not directly related to this law but on this topic are how to declare the elemental disaster in the drought. We have a situation that, three years ago, if I'm not mistaken, there was a long-standing drought that practically forced the Croatian national shipowner, who owned the Republic of Croatia, which practically drove him into bankruptcy. On the other hand, users of these services have also remained disabled to use waterways within the Republic of Croatia, waterways are not maintained as counterpart Bačić is constantly having a situation which, I hope that by entering the EU we will simply be forced to approach and operate because of Europe. But now we have a situation where from a neighbouring country, a gravel that is actually on our side of Sava, and if we're going to look at it, it's already a violation and a border line, and in some ways we're leaving our national interests to the mercy and mercy of any kind of capable mechanics, and that thing is not at all irrelevant. I hope that you will find a word to be pointed out about and with the arrangement of the Sava waterway since that is if we are truly the only river that is to a significant extent watery and also that you will find a way for the situation from three years ago to find out who is relevant for declaring a natural disaster in the event of a longer disabling of the wateriness of our rivers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37455	Thank you, too. We have exhausted a list of registered clubs and a list of registered representatives to discuss this topic. Finally, a representative of the promoters, I apologize, we have a replica of your presentation, Honorable representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37456	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Novak, I will only refer to the fact that you presented, which is maintenance of the Sava River's waterway. We need to know, Mr. Ministers and colleague Novak, that the works are under way on the Danube-Sava capital project and that the activities in the ports are mainly in Slavonski Brod, when it comes to the port administration zone, we have large economic activities in Brod that have arranged jobs of 4 and a half billion kuna. It would also be necessary in the next period to arrange this waterway so that ships can dock at the port of Slavonski Brod and at other ports along the Sava River and of course we cannot do so if we do not jointly arrange this same waterway with the Republic of BIH.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37457	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica by the esteemed representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37458	Thank you very much. Well, you've reminded me now of another problem related to the Sava River, and I know it's not about the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, but it's very important, and it's just now these waters that have risen and believed or not, but the dikes are in catastrophic condition. For years, this was not maintained, and the entire population along the Sava River was terrified of coming to the shooting of the dikes because this year, for the first time in a long time they were constantly underwater, they were water-divided. It happened that the groundwaters were rising and the floods were of it, but I think this ministry is also very interested in being a trough of the Sava River even in those parts that aren't waterproof. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37459	Thank you very much. A representative of the government's proposal is the minister of maritime, transport and infrastructure, respected Siniša Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37460	Respect, first of all, once again. So I thank you again for discussing the suggestions. I'd like to look back on the development of internal waterways. As in rail and road transport, the Republic now includes its strategic former pan-European routes and corridors in the EU's core or core network. So there's something called a comprehensy network there's something called corridors and something called core corridors. So this core or core corridors network consists of 10 key TEN-T directions. One of those directions is so-called. Dunaue corridor or Danube corridor. We are in intensive talks, therefore, in the talks and we have great understanding and I am almost certain and deeply believe that this part of the Danube route and the Sava route will become part of the EU's component core network of transport corridors. This enables co-financing of up to 85% for the control of the waterways and the Sava River. Right now we have one problem as a state, which is that our last Traffic Strategy tells us I will stop valid in 2009. why is it so I don't know, but we have agreed with the EU Commission I mean 8.2 million kunas building a complete transport strategy of the Republic of Croatia that includes internal waterways. So she's sectoral. In the entire sectoral strategy, special attention is given to channel links, as well as to waterway arrangements, as well as to the development of the Rijeka ports. The money of all therefore is now... the agreed master plans I think Sisak and Slavonski Brod, Vukovar and the southern coast of Osijek. So after making these master plans again through the IPA, there are preconditions for the development of the port I will say infrastructure, and later the superstructures. But we need to be careful here, rationally and realistically. So so far the current traffic has been ignored, but there is another problem that I have seen, which is that unfortunately through the making of these master strategies unfortunately through the ports here I am now setting an example of Slavonski Brod and Sisak performers are counting on the same traffic and on the same burden and so many of these goods are gone. So right through the strategy will define the specialisation of certain river ports but will be guided primarily by the burden, so how much cargo there is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37461	Thank you very much, Minister. That's how we exhausted the list of people reported. The debate on the text of the law is over. We will vote on the final proposal when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37462	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Inland water navigation and ports, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 333. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37463	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37464	I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 114 votes for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on navigation and ports of inland waters, the text proposed by the Proposer with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37465	Now we move on to the debate on: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Roads Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.. No. 334 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the bill by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Local, Regional Self-Government. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Sinisa Hajdas Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37466	Thank you very much. Of course, the adoption of this law achieves full harmonisation with the EU acquis for the area of road infrastructure and through the adoption of the 7 directives. First of all, these are the Taxes Directives for the use of infrastructures for heavy cargo vehicles, then two Road Safety Requirements Directives and tunnels for TEN or Trans-European Networks, the Electronic Device Directive or the ENC in the Republic of Croatia and Interoperability and Intelligent Transport Systems, which I will say and some new old EU platform. We also comply with the Law on concessions, the Law on Violations and the Law on JPP. In particular, what is a novelty in the law is therefore defined for the first time in terms of public roads, which means tolls and which means certain road facilities, bridges, tunnels, viaducts both on highways and on state roads, and introduces one toll model that includes an infrastructure tax, and the infrastructure fee is charged not only for maintenance and management costs but also for construction costs, and a fee is introduced which must be later defined on the account which will be received by the end-user, which is so-called. fees for external costs, which are costs of air and noise pollution. So in the future when issuing an invoice on the highway, this fee will have to be strictly separate. Therefore, the discount can be maximum up to 13%, so if the cost of the infrastructure fee including construction is included, then the costs are discounted and the costs to say maintenance and if that is 100, so the cost of the facility or the highway savings can only be 13%, so it is a maximum discount that can be given to the user of the infrastructure. However, permanent users again through the EU directive that is regulated here and through the introduction of electronic charges, so these in Croatia are popular to say ENC, and in the future interoperability, which means that they will have to be applicable in all European Commission countries within 5 years. The electronic collection system is stimulated, which means that the operator in Croatia, let's call them concessionaries so it was Bina-Istra, whether it was AZN, whether it was HAC as a definitely concessionary can therefore stimulate permanent users through an additional commercial policy, but exclusively through an electronic charge system. Furthermore, which are still newspapers in the law, these are security issues, especially security requirements for transport tunnels, where a new administrative body for tunnel security is defined. Which means the law requires the formation of three separate levels of security management in tunnels that I say again on the basic network. So it's an administrative body, it's a tunnel manager and a security officer. Which means that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure must form a administrative body, which will oversee the security issue, so the issue of more security, especially the tunnel, is one of the most important issues I will say politics. Smart transport systems in road transport, meaning the use of intelligent transport systems is stimulated, so the whole debate in the European Commission that is now going on, probably when it will live instead of this GPS that we now have Galileo and when we probably copy cars in the future so we say it goes to the user, so the infrastructures that you use are actually more and you pay. So, the user pays, the model is respected. And for the first time, so in this law we evenly position cycling traffic in the entire traffic system. Which means that through sub-legislative acts and regulations, therefore functionally organisationally prescribe the obligations of the road manager, so according to the development of the cycling system and the integration of the cycling system into the transport system. It's final. The concessionaries will have five years to introduce an interoperability system in electronic payment systems, there is also a definition of the infrastructure fee itself and other charges, but as regards the state budget, the new Roads Act does not require the issue of specific funds on the burden of the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37467	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. A replica of the respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic, has been reported at your presentation. Here's your esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37468	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, you were talking about maintenance costs. I understand, of course, that maintenance costs are both on large highways and on tunnels, but certainly also on county roads. So in that sense, I think it's time here to say that this reduction, these funds from 240 to 120 million kuna, are really going to cause serious disturbances in the maintenance of county roads. In that sense, I'd like to say that in my county of Koprivnica-križevcik last year they already have, we got the smallest amount. And now in these circumstances, if we get even less sure traffic will be difficult and it will indeed be the safety of those involved will certainly be difficult and I would like to draw your attention to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37469	Replication response No, I don't. [[Intruder: No.]] Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the board, the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to take part in this, before discussing their reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The debate begins with Clubs of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's Club of Representatives and Honorable Representative Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37470	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. This legislative proposal therefore harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union and also provides a statement of its compliance with the acquis of the EU and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. Public roads and their legal status, mode of use, classification, planning, construction, maintenance, public road management, measures to protect public roads on them, concessions, financing and supervision of public roads are governed by the Law on Roads and sublaws adopted under that law. At the session, the government adopted a draft law on amendments to the Road Law with the draft final draft law to adopt EU Parliament and Council directives. However, while taking over the legal property of the European Union, the Law on Roads was necessary to comply with the new Law on concessions, the Law on Public-private Partnership and the Criminal Law. The main issues to be settled by this law are public roads, highways and individual road facilities, bridge, tunnel, viaduct, similar on state roads. Annual fee for the use of public roads charged for motor and connection vehicles, user charges, electronic system and toll collection, technical requirements, special conditions for European electronic toll toll and interoperability, safety requirements for transport tunnels under earlier applicable regulations, administrative body for tunnel safety, road safety assessment, road safety audit, safety control and traffic record management, intelligent transport systems in road transport. In order for the first time, the Law introduces the terms "cyclist tape" and "cyclist path" in Article 2 and is advertised by the Minister in Article 15 to adopt, with the consent of the Minister of Construction, technical implementing regulations governing the design of construction, reconstruction, maintenance of cycling trails and cycling lanes, including the way in which they are transported and marked by traffic signalling. Article 5 provides that the use of public roads by vehicles registered in the Republic of Croatia shall be subject to annual fees and to vehicles, regardless of the country in which they are registered, tolls or charges may be charged under the terms of the prescribed Roads Act. Public road charges shall not be discriminated against by public road users. The introduction of compensation must not discriminate against international traffic on public roads, nor disturb road transport operators' freedom of competition. For the use of the same highway section, no toll and user fee may be charged at the same time for any vehicle group. Article 6 provides that tolls for the use of highways or individual roadways are: bridge, tunnel, viaduct and the like, on a national road which is paid at a distance determined on the basis of the distance that the vehicle has crossed and on the basis of a group of vehicles. The toll covers the infrastructure tax, as well as the external cost tax. The Minister of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure shall be empowered to adopt implementing rules governing vehicle groups to be deployed for the purpose of toll collection, as well as a number of other implementing rules. The deadline for the adoption of those rules shall be 1 October 2013. The conditions under which Croatian highways and concessionaires can give discounts or lower tolls relating to the infrastructure tax are also prescribed. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall be empowered to approve stimulating payment methods for electronic toll collection. Article 7 determines by which parameters determines the amount of the annual fee and are prescribed and the reductions in the annual fee are prescribed. It is prescribed that a user fee may be introduced for the use of a public road or a particular public road section for motor vehicles and connected vehicles intended exclusively for the transport of goods whose total mass exceeds 3,5 tonnes. The decision on the introduction, height and purpose of the user's fee is made by the Government. The amount of the user fee shall be determined in proportion to the duration of use of the public road and the maximum amount of the user charges for all categories of vehicle shall be as set out in Annex 2 to Directive 1999/62/EC. Articles 8 to 13 shall take over the provisions of Directive 2004/52/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the interoperability of electronic toll systems in the Community. Electronic toll systems introduced by Croatian highways and concessionaries must be interoperable. Croatian highways and concessionaries may agree with other service providers that equipment in the vehicle of the user of electronic toll collection can be used for other purposes, provided that this does not constitute an additional burden on the user of the service and does not discriminate on users of electronic toll collection services. Interoperability is the ability of the system and associated business processes to freely exchange information and share information and knowledge. Article 9 is replaced by the following: The government should establish measures to increase the use of electronic toll collection systems, which include stimulating toll payment models, so that the electronic toll charge reaches at least 50% of the total toll collection. Article 10 is further prescribed that Croatian highways and concessionaires are obliged to provide, no later than 5 years from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the conditions for the conclusion of a contract with the authorised ENC service provider in the European Union. In addition, the contract determines the way in which transactions are processed in charge..., the financial account, the procedures for the review of transaction data, in particular in the case of an appointment or a failure of equipment, control systems, the possibility of forced enforcement, as well as the provision of payment. Articles 11, 12, 13 shall contain provisions on technical requirements and specific conditions and elements of interoperability to be met by ENC service providers based on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and a certificate of compliance with technical requirements and interoperability elements issued by the State Bureau of Measurement. Article 14 provides for the protection of public road users' personal data in accordance with the requirements of Directive 2004/52/EC and Directive 2010/40/EC. Personal data from public road users for the needs of intelligent transport systems on public road, electronic toll and ENC, traffic management systems and others must be collected, processed and used in accordance with the rules on the protection of personal data and rules on data protection and security in electronic communications. For the purpose of additional privacy protection whenever technically implemented, intelligent transport systems should use depersonalised data. The provisions of Directive 2004/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on minimum safety requirements for tunnels in the trans-European road network and on the TEM roads shall be adopted in Articles 19 to 25. Article 19 states that the minimum safety conditions for tunnels apply to tunnels of more than 500 metres on those public roads that will be part of the trans-European road network after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union are determined on the basis of decisions of the European Parliament and of the Council on guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network. The Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure shall, in accordance with the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and the Minister responsible for Construction, adopt regulations on minimum security requirements and procedures for tunnels, design, construction and use phases, as well as full use of them. Article 20 contains provisions on the adjustment of tunnels which are in traffic under earlier regulations and provisions of the Road Law and Directive 2004/54/EC. Article 21 provides for the establishment of a governing body in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison and its obligations.... Article 22 further provides for the obligations and responsibilities of the tunnel manager. The tunnel manager is the Croatian highway, Croatian road and concessionary, i.e. the legal person appointed by the administrative body as manager of the tunnel for design and construction, i.e. for use and maintenance of the tunnel. The provisions of Directive 2008/96/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 on road infrastructure management security shall be adopted in Articles 26 to 33. In relation to the applicable provisions of the Road Act, an assessment of the impact on road safety is introduced as a mandatory and parallel analysis of the impact of the new public road, i.e. the reconstruction of the existing public road which affects traffic and the level of road safety. The provisions of Articles 29 and 30 shall provide for the implementation of the audit of the project and other documentation under the estimated safety on the TEM roads, the audit of the safety of the TEM road is independent, detailed, systematic and technical security checks relating to the design characteristics of the public road project and covering all phases from planning to letting the public road into the market. The audit shall be carried out clearly by the road safety auditor, and the road safety auditor shall have the authority to be granted to the person who has the appropriate experience or qualifications in the design of road safety funds, and in carrying out road safety analysis, and the training programme for road safety auditors has passed. The Minister of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure shall be empowered to prescribe work experience and training for road safety auditors, the way in which this is demonstrated in the issuing of the authorisation, the training programme for road safety auditors, the verification of training, additional training programmes, the content and manner of keeping an eye on, the methods and scope of the performance of road safety audit operations, and the way in which the fees for road safety audit operations carried out are calculated. The safety assessment of TEM road shares with a large number of traffic accidents and the safety control and keeping of traffic accident records shall be carried out in Article 32. The provisions and Directives 2010/40/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 July 2010 on the introduction of intelligent road transport systems and on links with other modes of transport shall then be adopted in Article 34. The technical and functional organisational requirements and specifications and standards adopted by the European Commission shall apply to ITS services in order to ensure the consistency and interoperability of ITS in the field of the European Union. There are also four priority areas for which ITS needs to be developed primarily, and priority activities within these priority areas. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to adopt a national programme for the development and introduction of road transport ITS in priority areas for 5 years which plan activities and projects and determine measures for the implementation of the programme. Article 35 to 40 represents a practical alignment of this law with the Law on concessions, which is too difficult to amend formal nature and ultimately, given that it is primarily a matter of harmonisation with the acquis and that the adoption and implementation of these provisions in the Roads Act improves and safety of transport and enables easier and more efficient traffic management of the SDP club will support the amendment and addition of the Roads Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37471	Thank you, too. It is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and the Honorable Representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37472	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be much shorter than a colleague who spoke on behalf of the SDP club. In any case, we support this Law on Roads with a view to being seen from applications, this time it does not mean inactive parliamentary representatives. Really, this law is well written. It is a alignment with European laws, with all regulations, all that awaits us when we enter the EU 1.7. This law regulates and has no reason to discuss it. It could be said that this law is actually of a technical nature and that everything written in it is very difficult to discuss since it is much of a problem. However, two things that have been warned here, which my colleagues have warned about, and also Minister Hajdas Doncic is also talking about, which is the development of cycling traffic, which I am now going to say absolutely certainly should be subject to and there will probably be discussions here in the Parliament. One of the issues that needs to be given extraordinary attention for a number of reasons, so I'm not going to elaborate it. The only thing the HDZ counterpart warned about, and as far as this law is concerned, the question is road safety, and the safety of the roads that this law is talking about. Depends on the maintenance of the roads. If the money that roads should be maintained is reduced year by year, safety will be much lower. All this other regulation of the law I said was acceptablely very interesting one note which the minister said and that is a provision which uses the infrastructure more that will pay more. Certainly let's say a more democratic commitment means a more economic commitment to one who uses has to pay more and it's very interesting that on the roads on which toll is charged it's about 1250 km of highway and we add to that the mainland-Krk bridge that there will also be a European electronic toll payment service. So the electronic toll collection system is stimulated. I want to know what solutions they will make and when those solutions will start to apply. So much for the Croatian Labour Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37473	Thank you very much. We've exhausted a list of registered clubs for debates on this subject. We're moving on to an individual debate. It's your honor's representative, Mladen Novak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37474	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Vuksic mentioned some details about the bill before me. And I have to admit that I have a little bit of a misunderstanding, and it refers to Article 9th point 11, which defines the powers of the minister who refers to the level of the toll. I find it unclear how the minister can affect the tolls that are on the roads that are under concession, and I think there's a little too much space left behind, so it turns out that the minister can make his decision, I know he can't, but it turns out from this text. I don't think it's good enough, accurately engaged, so it turns out he can put off one part of the concession contract. A colleague, Vukšić, mentioned the total mileage before me, 1251 km of highway and the mainland-Krk bridge. This bridge of the mainland-Krk is, among other things, the subject of a letter received by all the members of the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee and, among other things, it states that the debt of 23 million 786 thousand and 246 kuna is invoiced. I think that since we're talking about the Law on Roads and mentioning both that bridge and the normally connected to the Islands Act because they're with each other so I won't say otherwise but both of them are concerned with this issue, it would be good to know what the Ministry is thinking about doing on this letter of this debt that is an integral part of this law. Since it was your deputy board, I assume you've received feedback, and that's the subject of this bill, the second tube of Ucka tunnel. Since this law is fully related to all these infrastructure facilities, I think it would be good to have information and when will this end and that issue that is being passed through a few committee sessions of what concession agreements has the Republic of Croatia signed? I know we can't know everything, some of it's probably going into the sphere of some business secrets, but I think the concession contract is prescribed even when the conditions for opening are met, or for the works on the second pipe. So it writes among other things, probably until when these concession contracts are on what terms. Some details the Croatian public should know after all. Now, that's a few questions that you've been asked, all about the issue of this law, although not all of them are part of this text, but I think there's enough reason to hear you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37475	Thank you, too. It's the Honorable Representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37476	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I didn't mean to take this particular call, but I can see that this law doesn't cause much of an interest to an MP, so let's talk about him in another part of it. Not so much about the charge we're talking about all the time because we're just talking about how we're gonna charge something. All right, maybe we'd better have one system like some neighbors so we don't bother much with that. But I'd more like to refer to this article, which is related to the criteria for the distribution of fuel resources, related to the financing of the county road administrations. In this section, it is said that funds will be deployed by the minister. And since the minister is here, I'd just like to warn you of a few things that happened last year when in a very strange way that large amount of 400 and some million kuna money was allocated to some strange criteria and by strange standards. Where, for example, some ZUCs who have significantly less kilometres and twice as much money, where the county road administrations were obviously nominated in this proposal to distribute funds by party coats, according to those who manage some part of Croatia at local level, rather than by the right criteria. I think that this article should define these criteria a little tighter and stronger, so that it should not allow the Minister to determine that because the minister has proved to be a person inconsistencies in the distribution of these funds and has done great damage to many ZUCs, including the County Road Administration of the Koprivnica-Crysing County. I think that in the distribution of this kind of money we should get, in principle, the total amount of money already allocated to the programme, to see exactly how the money was allocated, and that when the Parliament adopts the Croatian Roads programme, in the extreme case, it already has the exact amount and exact criteria that it is done because in this way we are really creating a very ugly picture, we can create one story, one fog that simply has the minister giving the money how he remembers, how he would like it, how he thinks it is best without any criteria and criteria. So, if we can't get the exact amount of money that's being earned, then it's okay to at least bring it, to adopt those criteria, those rules that it's done because in the case of the correct rules, then there's no manipulation, there's no malfeasances that were so in the last year. And not to mention the maintenance of roads now at this time when what has already been mentioned here in the replica by counterpart Milinkovic that in principle in this year we will have the impossible maintenance of roads at local level and that I am not even talking about the fact that units of local self-government from fuel charges generally have nothing, and that the largest number of roads are generally unclassified by units of local self-government that have to find ways to maintain it themselves. And not to mention that we still have county local roads that are unfalsified where people live on a stone road where there's no indication that they'll be able to handle it this year given the proposed reduction of those funds. So you see how many details should be solved in that Regulation, in those criteria, and I think there should be criteria if we want even development of the Republic of Croatia at least as much, if nowhere else and at least in traffic connection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37477	Thank you, Your Honor. Replications have been reported. Let's go in order. The first replica and respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37478	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm glad you noticed and said what I was trying to say in my replica. In fact, regarding the distribution of these funds, of course with that finding that this reduction, the halving in some way of these 240 to 120 million kuna. And it is clear to all of us that it will be insufficient to reflect and that it will cause huge difficulties in traffic, of course and in safety, which is necessary in each category of roads. So even though those funds of 60 limes are going from the sale of fuel and the regulation has not been passed, they have not yet been brought to the part where you spoke, where the minister has it. And that is why it is necessary to repeat here that the regulation in the distribution of funds must be so made that it really balances the standard for maintaining county and local roads where the road status, traffic etc. should be classified. So, in that part, and we have really in our county of Koprivnica-Crission unpleasant experiences from last year, here's where on this table you see where we are, here we are last on that, and I really don't think that this way you care about the even development of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37479	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37480	Thank you very much. Well, it's just this table that I see you have in your hand, and so do I. And now let me just mention, in this part of those regular funds that we don't know exactly how much of the 120 million that are now and for 120 reduced there will be money for, by the criteria. And as far as the minister is going to be able to split it, the ratio is still unknown, but we can see that we have a problem. But just for example, one county, one ZUC last year, 453 county local roads get 28 million kuna. Our ZUC, 868km of county local roads gets 13.6 million kuna. So I repeat, we have a road, we have villages and settlements in the town of Križevci where I live, we have five villages that have no asphalt to themselves. In the 21st century, county and local roads. How are we gonna build them if this is how it's done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37481	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37482	An esteemed colleague of the Hrg would be given from this presentation, from this reading the table to conclude that your roads are in good condition, so you should not lie to them, right? But it's not like that. What you were saying about the criteria for the allocation of money, about the discretionary right of the minister to decide, you actually touched the essence of everything, the essence of politics because the essence of the policy has redistributed at least there we Labourists think, the redistribution that has completely spread guilty today. So we stand for the redistribution of wealth and so to redistribution. Here we talk about every segment in society, in the state, and so on and when we talk about roads. Because the essence of society and Croatian, both European and world, as I said, is the redistribution of goods, new and if we establish fair criteria then we are on a good track to make a good society and to help this segment in terms of the same road safety, as well as the roads in Croatia. So we're in favour of what you said, that we need to establish criteria and we've spoken the same criteria in two three points today and yesterday. So we're missing the criteria. In everything we bring, all the laws we make, we rely more and more on either individual or party being able to decide without any criteria. We see that it's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37483	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37484	Thank you very much, dear fellow Vuksic. Well, that's exactly what this is about, so it's been done here a lot of times now to show our minister's unbelief, because Mr. Minister often liked to throw numbers, so he recently said that there was a billion damage to the construction of a sub-level ipsilon. So the data says something else entirely. When we're throwing money at each other like that, we can think that we can assign these funds on a flat-rate basis. What you said and what I, of course, advocated, is the even development of Croatia. Every citizen of the Republic of Croatia must have those minimum conditions, a minimum standard for him to live where he chose his own life or where he must live because there is no possibility of moving to a city. In particular, rural areas are damaged, rural areas are special. And in this year, the continental Croatia is very much in the problem especially on the county roads, and local and unclassified because it was simply a strong winter, a lot of money was spent on the winter service and it will be, of course, now it has to spend three times as much money on maintenance and repairs due to that winter itself. At that time, we have no criteria, we don't discuss it, we don't think about it, and we allow the minister, so either at the request of someone else's will, or on his own schedule, the money as if it were his money, out of his pocket. This is the money of Croatian citizens, all of us who drive, who pay for fuel. Therefore, we need to know how we deploy it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37485	Thank you very much. We continue the debate, the individual debate. It's up to the Honorable Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37486	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, as the clubs in their opening section have already said, this is about harmonising the Law on Roads with, as the introduction says, the 7th EU Directive. Well then clearly that the law itself in, this amendment to the law in the large part is also a technical change. What is said on the very opening part of the law, or the amendment of the law itself, is about the compensation for the use of public roads, so here is a large part of my debate and I have directed a letter based on the request or letter sent to us from the public companies highway Rijeka-Zagreb for claims made by Rijeka-Zagreb highway to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What wonders me as an agent, as well as an opposition representative, is that, as far as I have knowledge, the government does not dispute that there is a commitment to the Rijeka-Zagreb highway for not charging the space of the crossing across the Krk Bridge, but that within the government there is doubt among government portfolios whether the obligation to this enterprise is an obligation of your ministry, maritime ministry, transport and infrastructure or the Ministry of Regional Development. The basis of the Island Act enables islanders living in Krk, citizens of the city of Krk not to pay compensation for crossing the Krk Bridge, and then it is clear that the difference will also be paid by the state budget. I am therefore surprised that a public company needs to be returned to parliamentary deputies in order for the public to be familiar with asking the state budget for a certain amount. So then I wanted to focus this discussion on another project, one other road route which also these days in the heat of the public, which is a gateway through the future tunnel which is being completed through Biokovo, St. Elijah, where you too, Mr. Minister, have announced that the users of that traffic route will need to pay for the tunnel. I think given the fact that the Island Act freed the payments of the inhabitants and Krk from crossing the bridge which is clear, which is in the function of transporting the island so that, in the same way, through another law, we should allow residents of the Imot region whose project and the road route is very important for all economic development for Biokovlja to be treated and could be treated and treated to that road building in the same way as the Krk Bridge is treated. When we talk about the funds and the lack of funds that Croatian roads have, and we hear it many times in the parliamentary debate that Croatian roads do not have enough resources to build or quality maintenance of state roads in the Republic of Croatia, I am already on several occasions, and I can now give you a question if so and I know that because of the lack of income to the state budget, often the resolution ministry cannot respond to all those projects which and the requirements that come from the local self-government unit, which is why the State Roads as a public undertaking were entrusted with the government's consent last year to 400 million kunas in order to place these funds on other people's property, and in this case, in which case, Croatian roads have also committed themselves to the property of the county administration for roads. So on the one hand, we're talking about how there's not enough resources to maintain, quality maintenance of state roads. At the same time, the government gives consent to the State Roads to be in charge and not in a small amount of 400 million kuna, according to which they will transfer to the county road administration and which projects will develop, develop, implement on the county roads. I need to see that I don't see any special logic. And I'm not saying that I didn't even see logic in the key to the distribution of those funds that the state roads had since they deployed to the county road administrations on the basis of the government's borrowing consent. And another point I would like to point out is the fact that 1st of July Croatia enters the EU and that the regime of crossing the border in southern Croatia will make life very difficult for the inhabitants of Dubrovnik-Neretva County very much. You yourself, Mr. Minister, participated in several meetings and debates over how to connect traffic to the building of the Pelješko Bridge, and then on that trail, I think it was good that the Croatian roads were already in charge of 400 million kuna last year and allowed part of the funds to be arranged by Pelješka cesta. After 1st July, given the new regime of passing through Neum a large part of traffic will be directed across Pelješac so it would be good for Pelješka cesta, a state road that is in extremely poor condition to be reconstructed until 1st July that it has been built on a concrete road that can simply satisfy the traffic to be carried out there. By the way, I do not know, and I am also trying to get this information in view of this increased volume of traffic that will take place via Peljesac and then clearly through the ferry connection Trpanj-Ploče I am interested in which way, which ships and which boats will be able to transport. After the 1st of July passage to live animals, which are also pets will be referred to the ferry connection Trpanj-Ploče, not to say that this fact will cause great trouble for families who are traveling in this direction with small children for whom there are no travel documents and will then be forced and they will also be rerouted to the ferry line Trpanj-Ploče and this will further greatly increase the volume of traffic across the Peljeska road. And for a short time, I will conclude, as far as the building of the Pelješko Bridge is concerned, I am pleased that the Croatian Prime Minister said that these days he has also become a proponent of the construction of the Pelješko Bridge but has continued to leave doubt about its construction. In fact, it will appear to be a bigger supporter if the funds for its construction are provided by the EU. The Peljeski bridge is part of the transport sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. In my opinion and in every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, sovereignty cannot be measured by money, we cannot take our position on whether we will complete the transport sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia to connect with the fact that an institution will, so whether it and the EU commission or the European funds, help us to establish our own transport sovereignty. If we need the Peljek Bridge, then we need it regardless of whether the money is given to us by the EU Commission or not. Therefore, I ask you, Mr. Minister, that the fact that now the Prime Minister is also in agreement with the construction of the bridge is that, as I say, I have become his supporter to then take action so that this bridge continues to be built regardless of whether we will receive funds from the European budget. Because if we get the funds you know very well there are still a number of roads along Peljesac and one smaller bridge from Peljesac we return to the state road D8 which has towards Dubrovnik which will seek additional funds. Therefore, if EU funds come from the Commission and come for the Pelješko bridge project, where I mean both access roads and roads across Peljesac and return to the state road D8 on the highway of the Adriatic, then the funds we receive from the EU Commission will be invested there. And if we agree, and if there is a consensus, and I am glad that this is what the Prime Minister said, if there is a consensus that there is a need for the construction of the Pelješko bridge then let's not build it and start to implement it and bring it into contact with any means that the EU Commission would give us because I repeat sovereignty and the Pelješki bridge is an expression of the transport sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37487	Thank you very much. And we have one replica of the respected representative of Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37488	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm glad you noticed that you don't understand the logic of this distribution that is in the power of the minister. It is not clear to us, of course, in Koprivnica and Križevci County and we would not want it to happen again in the past year where we have been almost the worst. I believe that these criteria should be clearly highlighted, set criteria, standards of maintenance, and that indeed our citizens all adequately have traffic safety and can be easily and evenly developed by Croatia, and, of course, the equality of all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37489	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37490	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with my colleague Milinkovic, I couldn't agree more. But I said that in my debate, I went one step further, not only were there not clear criteria by which a certain amount of funds was transferred to a particular county administration, and the other was not, but when I talk about the borrowing of Croatian roads. In order to transfer funds to the County Road Administrations under only their known criteria without clear criteria, I find such a decision even less clear to me. I do not understand, which led the Croatian roads at times when they do not have the means to maintain their own roads, their own property which led them to be further in debt to pass the funds to the County Road Administrations without criteria. Some say that it took Croatian roads to implement some small projects that would then be open at the time of the local election campaign in such a way that where it suits them more, they would invest more and then open more there in accordance with their needs in the realisation of the campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37491	Thank you very much. On behalf of the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Honored Minister of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Siniša Hajdas Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37492	Thank you very much. The debate was very lively, so of course it was local elections, and I'll actually just focus on this part of the Road Law, and that's what I think is the gentleman from the Labourist who asked a specific question about I think the concessions that are defined here and actually the differences between the fee through the infrastructure tax and the possibility of affecting concession contracts. Yes, you're right, there is very narrow that so we say narrow platform that we can actually influence concessionaires because the contracts signed on concessions talk about Bina-Istra and highway Zagreb-Macelj, so we don't have much tools to influence the price of the toll. So the only thing we have to make that difference is that they have to calculate in detail how much this infrastructure tax is. It means that it is defined which consists of the cost of construction, which consists of maintenance costs, and of course the cost of billing where there are and with some depreciational age of the facility itself. As far as continuing to build the highway, let's call it the Istrian Ipsilon, we negotiate with the concessionary because according to the current concession agreement, the RH's cca 200 million kuna per year until the end of 2027. or 28, so any investment and any physicality or insolvency of the project itself through creditors depends probably on the extension of the concession where we apply well. So in one way we would like to reduce that concession feed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia i.e. The Department of Maritime Affairs is now paying. On the other hand, to finish up to the tunnel, I think it's a 45 or 50km highway, and since I say the project is definitely not physical, not even... it's probably only in some second or third phase that the construction and other pipe tunnels would come into consideration. As for the criteria that you have also well noticed that the criteria really in the ministry are very casual and do not exist, so I do not consider it my responsibility. But therefore the initiative which is about a month ago, I will say the initiative was launched that Croatian roads obtain a very normal thing called a traffic counter. So, the main criterion in the future will be the average annual daily traffic. This will also make it impossible for local politicians and all others to make political decisions in the future. You have a lot of political decisions in Croatia. We want to starve this tunnel, we want to build the one where it wasn't, actually, I'm going to say economic calculations, so there was nothing called PGDP, which is actually good. This is what the European Union is forcing us to do. So we won't be able to go into some construction and expect actual co-financing of 20, 30, 40, 50% if no cost benefit analysis is made. So it's going to be planned, so if it's on a particular road I don't know the PGDP average annual daily traffic of 4000 it's going to be a normal, ordinary road. If it grows to 8 it'll be a fast road, if it gets to 14, 15 it'll become a highway. It is therefore important to establish criteria. One of these criteria for us is basically traffic counters, so we're going to make our job easier. Of course I mean, I don't want to, at all, make some kind of decision and criteria without some professional I'll say the basis which is very rational and logical. And all to say so are the criteria, the distribution of funds, and these 400 million kunas and what is not discretionary, so there are criteria, so there are criteria that propose Croatian roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37493	Thank you, Minister. We've got reports of replicas, so let's go in order. The first replica and respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37494	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you said, of course it was a local election. After that you said that the criteria do not exist but that you do not consider it your responsibility. Does this really mean that last year's distribution was ahead of local elections because when it's read and watched it could be. It will be interesting to monitor where road facilities will be opened now before these local elections in the next month. And as for the cost of a sub-level ipsilon or some other ipsilon or some other ipsilon, some other road. Well, I don't get that either. We talk about cost-effectiveness whenever we want and then when we want to talk, then we shut up about cost-effectiveness. So I'm asking the question, if it's already a matter of cost-effectiveness, which is then logic, I don't understand, it's illogical, please explain to me, it's said that it's not worth building a highway because it's going to be paid and it's going to fit us who live there that doesn't pay. So it's said after that, but there's going to be a fast road that's going to be financed from the state budget and we're not going to pay for it. The person who lives there is fine with this. But it's illogical for me, namely, it's not about cost-effectiveness, if we went to work on the cost-effectiveness of all the roads in Croatia that have been made so much over the past 20 years then we would very rarely find a cost-effective road. But it's about people's lives, it's about opening up space, it's about opening up the possibility of developing an end. There's that cost-effectiveness. It is not just cost-effectiveness in how many cars along that road go, but whether there is an end to it, whether opportunities are given and chances of developing or being forced to remain undeveloped.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37495	Thank you very much for the reply to the replica of Minister Honored Sinisha Hajdash Doncic. You can replicate here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37496	You see, because of that approach, it's probably the CROMAC loan of 37 billion kuna, that we're going to build, I'm not saying that we don't need to build, I'm not saying that there are no criteria, so the criteria exist and every division, let's call it a division based on some criteria. I say those criteria weren't good and they weren't enough. And on the other hand, I'm not saying that we shouldn't build, but the question is the volume of construction, the question of rationality of this construction. Of course Koprivnica-križevci County needs a road, only the difference is in the price of fast road construction, the difference is in the cost of building highways 20 to 30% plus maintenance. So we have average annual daily traffic, we have less than 4,000, what we're going to build on the highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37497	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37498	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, we almost didn't hear well that you said that indeed in the division of these funds for the Ministry of Roads county administrations there were no criteria or were flat-rate but that you, as a minister, do not consider yourself responsible. And who do you think should be responsible because your ministry, by your decision, has divided 400 million kunas without the criteria as you say or by the flat-rate criteria. Although the criteria were well established in the existing Article 92 of the existing Roads Act, they were developed from the size, size of the county and local roads, equalisation of regular and extraordinary maintenance, degree of construction, condition of the stake, etc., etc. So to the last one, it was a criterion, but apparently no one followed it. And if he hadn't stuck to it, you can see from this famous table where the Zadar County won for zero kuna interventions. Zero. So, ever since, I've been thinking that since 2005, it seems to me that we've had data from no one's county has ever been assigned a zero kuna. In contrast, Primorje-goranska received 2 million and 300 kuna intervention funds, so here is Krapina-Zagorska 800, I don't know, Međimurska 3 million etc., but Zadar Zero. Of course that's because, as you yourself said, you had no criteria, or rather you had them in the law, but on the occasion of making your decision you didn't follow them, you were already following them, I won't insinuate, there were words... do local choices, do opinions on who is when and how you get [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I assure you that Zadar County is not....../Intruder: Thank you very much. ...not even before she got so much that she should be punished with this. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37499	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, Honored Minister Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37500	So here, I'm going to be very brief, so you're just mixing the terms, one j, and so it's about the investment cycle of Croatian roads that have nothing to do with these criteria, so that's under number one and what criteria of distribution have brought about Croatian roads. So I say the criteria exist for everyone without them being perfect. So it's an inheritance. We're not looking... it's an inheritance. But don't just mix 400 million kunas from... cycles that the Croatian roads have divided, with the criteria of Croatian roads. And something that's a legal obligation that's respected, which isn't perfect, I'm talking about a small amount. This was an investment investment of $400 million, which is two different concepts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37501	Thank you, Minister. And third replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37502	Dear Minister, you said at one point probably, that there would be no ambiguity, so I want to take a little detour with you, that there will be no more political decisions, but economic decisions will be made. However, if the 3rd January government, which was the Government of Ivica Racan, was only guided by this criterion then there would certainly be no highway from Zagreb to Split, and it is necessary. There wouldn't be a lot of other highways if we'd just guided by that criterion. Under this criterion, only economic viability is difficult for the Republic of Croatia to develop. Finally, it all comes down to money and some economic cost-effectiveness. Some seemingly political decisions create conditions for economic development, create actually conditions for a decent life, and citizens should be, you will surely admit, the most important state because the state exists for the sake of citizens. The Peleski Bridge is also a matter of not only economic viability but, above all, political sovereignty and the question of the dignity of these people living in southern Croatia. So it's all connected and it's hard to talk only about the political aspect of the road or just the economic aspect of building a road.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37503	Thank you very much. Replication response, Honored Minister Sinisha Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37504	Thank you. I say, one of the most important criteria is PGDP, one of the most important criteria. So let's give examples now... The Peles Bridge. You know that we have agreed with European Commission consultants to develop a transport strategy, connect Croatia i.e. The EU of the South, which analyses several solutions, connects Croatia's south i.e. European South. So of course one of the parameters will be PGDP, but through cost-benefit analysis they will be different-weighted. So there's still parameters and economical and demographic and sociological, so they're going to say that they put in a black box that then kind of search it out and actually make the best solution. But I'm saying, one of the most important criteria must be really PGDP in weights, in different weights, respecting all other criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37505	Thank you, Minister. We've exhausted a list of people who have been reported to discuss this subject, even replicas and answers to replicas. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37506	We move to the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Roads Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 334. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 166. I am giving the Rules of Procedure the motion to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who is in favour? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that, with 106 votes for and 7 abstentions, we have agreed to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government. I'd like Minister Sinisha Hajdash Doncic to explain the amendment to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37507	Thank you very much. Therefore, the amendments to Article 47(3) shall be amended and shall read in the previous paragraph 3 which becomes 4 No. 2 shall be replaced by 1 with the reason that no-technically supplementing is made in Article 47(3) where the writing error occurred in the numeration of subparagraph 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37508	I'm opening a debate. Club representatives can participate in the debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendments to the government. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that, with 112 votes, the government's amendment has been unanimously accepted and I am now concluding the debate. We also have amendments to the Legislative Committee. Minister, here you go. Amendment number one to Article 36.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37509	Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts Amendment 1 to Article 36
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37510	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No 2 to Article 47
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37511	The amendment to Article 47(3) does not accept the amendment because it is, in fact, in fact, in its amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia through a nomtechnical supplementation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37512	The amendment has been withdrawn. Third amendment to Article 50
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37513	The amendment to Article 50(2) shall be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37514	I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's abstentioned?please result. I find that, unanimously with 112 votes, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Roads Act in the text has been adopted, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37515	We will now move to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on draft Croatian air navigation control, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 320 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You've received reports from these two working bodies at the sessions. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Sinisa Hajdas Doncic. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37516	Thank you very much. So very simply, the amendments to the HKZP Act define the status of i.e. the price of flights not charged in accordance with the eurocontrol, i.e. I'll tell the European Air Navigation Control Association. Why this is important, it is important and it is in line with international regulations, and also national regulations that, for example, some flights are not charged. These are, for example, humanitarian flights, these are the flights of the president, the ministers flying above the air sky and the prices of these flights cannot be broken to civil operators, which means that the fee cannot, for example, be broken to Lufthansa or Croatia Airlines, but must be strictly defined in the budget. It means exactly how much these flights must be made by the national state, so in this case Croatia's air navigation control. So of all the laws with which I started today, so also from the Maritime Code, the Law on Roads and the Law on Inland Waterways, this law alone has an impact on the state budget because we predict that we will need to secure about 2.5 million to 3 million kunas annually just like that distribution. a replacement for those actual costs that HKZP has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37517	Thank you, Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the board and the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present reports? I don't think so. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. We're going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the SDP representative's club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37518	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the draft Croatian Air Navigation Control, a proposal for a law that is in line with the legislation of the European Union. The law on the draft Croatian air navigation control was established by a limited liability company, so the Croatian air navigation control company, owned by the Republic of Croatia, which performs air traffic services, in the airspace of the Republic of Croatia, in the airspace above the Adriatic Sea, outside the territorial borders established by international contracts binding the Republic of Croatia and in the airspace of another State which entrusted the company with the exercise of air navigation control. Of course, it is extremely important to achieve the best quality of air navigation services, reflecting the highest standards of safety and the highest quality of services through knowledge, reliability and efficiency. All of this should be a modern organisation that meets user requirements, maintains a high level of safety and takes care of the environment. In accordance with international standards, Croatian air navigation control is certified for the following range of services: providing air services, providing communication services, navigation and surveillance, providing aviation meteorology services. The relevant EU rules prescribe, inter alia, flights which EU Member States must or may exclude from the collection of costs incurred by the provision of air navigation services. And of course it must be integrated into our regulations. They further prescribe that Member States must ensure that their air navigation service providers are compensated for the costs of services provided to them by exceptional flights and the costs of exempted flights must not be taken into account when calculating unit prices. Therefore, the implementation of the provisions of this law also requires the provision of additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia starting from 2014. Since the list of flights whose exemption from the collection of the costs incurred by the provision of air navigation services is established by the applicable law and does not correspond to the list of flights set out in the relevant EU rules. It is necessary to amend the relevant provisions of the applicable law. Taking into account the potential future changes and additions to EU rules governing this matter, instead of listing the type of flights exempt from the charge of fees, a more general provision is also proposed which will not require further changes to the law in the event of any changes in European regulations. Thus, the draft law, which of course we support, stipulates that the obligation to pay compensation for the costs incurred by the provision of air navigation services will exclude flights in accordance with EU rules which determine the common method of accounting for air navigation services, which are prescribed flights which must and which may be excluded from the payment of air navigation charges. Furthermore, since the compensation for air navigation services is also mentioned, the company’s revenue is determined by the obligation to reimburse the costs of flights excluded from the obligation to pay the company’s compensation and the funds provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, it is prescribed that the company is entitled to compensation for flights incurred from 1 July 2013 and that the costs will be reimbursed in the current year for the costs incurred in the previous year. In addition to the law in question, it also provides for two amendments to the provisions of the applicable law which are identified as impractical, i.e. causing difficulties in the context of the need for amendments and additions to the applicable law, and it is also proposed that the assembly is the one proposing a decision on the seat of the society and that it is the assembly, and in order to avoid the need to go with amendments and additions to the law when changing its seat at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. Following the adoption of this law, the application of the legal property of the EU is also possible, allowing simplified and practical application of the law in relation to the establishment of the headquarters of the company and the adoption of the statutes and will therefore support these amendments by the SDP Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37519	Thank you, too, dear colleague. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37520	Dear Minister, the fact is that again we have only a few articles to say about, while at the same time we must not ignore the fact that the Croatian budget is being made quite an income on this basis. So I'm less interested in this part of the text that's been going on in front of us and more what's been going on for the past few months with regard to this center that I'm not going to say was quite full of affairs, some games under the grains and actions that are clearly between, within the ruling coalition but also between certain I won't tell the clans, but the current has instilled its solutions. Since all this can result in damage to the Republic of Croatia, damage to the budget, damage to the reputation of the firm they represent. I hope that in these games, or events, the end has come, and that they will be able to devote themselves to the work for which they are there, for which they are appointed. But at the same time, I expect the minister to do everything in his ingenuity, which is his ingenuity, to check the truthfulness of those allegations that appeared in the media about paying off individuals who were truly astronomical and eye, to investigate those stories that are related to, and I will be mildly non-transparent actions about the appointment of individuals to executive duties at this center. There's practically nothing to add. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37521	Thank you, Your Honor. The Croatian Democratic Community club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37522	Thank you very much, Vice President, Minister. Well, here's the lady on behalf of the SDP club more and less said what is more important to this bill, amendments and additions to the Law on draft Croatian air navigation control and taking place. Just so we may get closer to what it is, what kind of company it is, we're talking about an air navigation control company owned by the Republic of Croatia. In short, their task is jobs and operations that are in the function of safe operation of air traffic, and I think we can say that they really do so at a high level. What is mentioned here is that the law is in line with European legislation i.e. It is already mentioned in the part of the obligation to pay compensation for the costs incurred by the provision of air navigation services for excluded flights, which has been excluded so far. They were excluded by Article 8(2), meaning the State aircraft of the Republic of Croatia used for military, police and customs purposes, and then foreign State aircraft on the basis of reciprocity, aircraft on a test flight and flight for flight staff training unless passengers or cargo are transported on those flights. Other aircraft were also excluded on the basis of the exemptions established by EUROCONTROL. What was also stated that someone would have to pay for it, the minister himself said it stood somewhere at 2.5m to 3m kuna per year. We assume that it will be paid for 2012 in 2013, in 2014 for 2013 and so on. There are also these practical changes to the laws that have so far been identified as impractical, which relate to the headquarters of society. So, decisions made by the congregation. So let's also try to say through this form of amendment and addition proposal again to the Croatian Parliament to take power that he had boredom, which is to give consent to the statutes of that society. However, in order not to think that it is really an irrelevant company or an irrelevant public enterprise, I will say just some information. It's a company whose total revenue at the level of the year is about 600 million kuna, which employs around 740 employees, where staff costs and their work are incredible 389 million kuna per year. What should also be noted, for example, that the monthly net salary of counselors reaches 28 thousand kunas, net. He had already mentioned by his colleague in Labour that the company had had some small affairs in the past year or so. After 18 years, the previous director was removed, so for a time, let's say v.d. Director and now we see that only in the third month is the appointment of a new director from the ranks of employees within the society. And they should be praised in the part where they themselves said as a company, and when the Civil Aviation Agency planned to get a plane that cost 64 million kunas with equipment to primarily carry out control and direction then air traffic control warned them not to do so, that they could rent such a plane that cost about a million, million and 300 thousand kuna a year and that the purchase of such an aircraft that was then explained as something needed and for other purposes in order to pay it back for almost 50 years to be paid off. Of course, under this topic we can also talk about the loss of our national air carrier last year, which ended with an incredible 483 million kuna loss, and here we are talking today about reducing the number of employees by almost 200, reducing the fleet and abolishing the lines. Is this the right way to continue this huge potential that we have especially in increasing air traffic? to make this potential bigger, to live in government is, on carriers, air carriers, at ports, airports, to find the best models as best as possible to promote not only tourism and travel but to make this network that is not fully developed simply within the region itself both better and better. The HDZ Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37523	Thank you, too. We thus exhausted the list of applicants to discuss the final proposal for the P.Z. law. No. 320. So the debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37524	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the draft Croatian Air Navigation Control Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z.E. Number 320, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that it is unanimous with 112 votes to pass the Law amending and supplementing the law on the draft Croatian air navigation control in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37525	We move to the debate on - the final proposal of the Law establishing the Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Accidents, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 295; Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure. The debate on the final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. It's Honorable Minister Sinisha Hajdash-Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37526	Thank you very much. In accordance with the EU rules, we need to update I will tell an existing agency that exists to investigate aircraft accidents. She existed with two models. One model was for the agency to stay, so to establish another agency and we are already in negotiations, so at the operational level with DGs managed to negotiate to actually build one agency. Therefore, from the existing Air Safety Research Agency, it is essentially only extensive. It expands and adds part of the sea and part of the railroad. The impact in the budget this year will not be because they are secured for the agency already in the budget this year, and probably in the future, so it will be necessary to step up to say that item and it must be the only item of the budget. Therefore, it cannot be financed from industry because it must remain an independent investigative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37527	Thank you, Minister. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament Committee wish to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The debate starts with the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the SDP's Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37528	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Currently in Croatia there is an Air Traffic Accident Research Agency established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and followed by the provisions of the Air Transport Act. However, according to EU regulations, an agency should be set up to investigate both accidents in maritime and rail transport, in addition to a survey of air accidents. Since we see that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure is working to streamline the system, only one independent agency will be established to investigate accidents for both air and maritime and rail transport together. The founder of the agency is the Republic of Croatia and the founding rights are exercised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This agency must be functionally and organisationally independent of all bodies responsible for air, maritime and rail transport, and of all legal and physical persons with whom it may come into conflict of interest. The provisions of this law regulate the head office of the Agency, the activity in certain areas of transport, means air, maritime and rail transport, the Administrative Council, the Director, the means necessary to establish and start work and how they are supplied or provided, restrictions on acquisition, load and identification of real estate and other property, and other issues relevant to the work of the Agency. In the manner in which the Agency's operations are carried out, the specific regulations, the laws governing air traffic, maritime transport and safety and rail transport shall apply, or regulations adopted for their implementation. On the basis of public authority as an activity of interest to the Republic of Croatia, the Agency shall carry out an investigation of aircraft accidents and serious accidents, a security investigation in order to identify the cause of the accident and to propose measures to avoid maritime accidents, as well as to improve the safety of navigation, to investigate a serious accident in rail transport. It shall provide, inter alia, safety recommendations to improve safety in air, maritime and rail transport and provide professional assistance and manage the national database and others. For each particular field of research, the agencies have three main investigators responsible for the professional work of the Agency. The implementation of the provisions of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013, given that the financial resources for the start of the Agency's work on air, maritime or rail accidents are secured in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 under the funds for the work of the Ministry of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure and the Agency for the investigation of aircraft accidents and serious accidents. In the future, as we have already heard, the annual funds needed for the regular activity of this agency would be secured in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, and the Agency can also acquire funds from other sources, such as the one from other sources. donations, funds and the like, of course, in accordance with all the regulations. The draft bill has been submitted several times to the Bureau of Law, and to the central authorities of the state administration, I am primarily referring to the Ministry of Finance, Foreign and European Affairs, the Ministry of Administration, the Ministry of Justice and, of course, agreeing with most of the observations and proposals made. As I have already mentioned, this draft bill has been delivered to the European Commission, which agreed that since this agency is an independent body, the EU rules provide for an obligation to set up independent bodies to conduct investigations in certain areas of transport. The Minister does not give prior consent to the appointment of the Director and the Deputy Director of the Agency, believing that the proposed provisions would violate the independence of the Agency. Therefore, the adoption of this law, i.e. the establishment of an Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Traffic, in accordance with the relevant EU directives, will ensure the organisational, functional and financial independence of the research bodies, while reducing the costs for which the funding would be provided in the state budget for several agencies. The SDP club will support these amendments and amendments to the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37529	Thank you, Your Honor. It is up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and the respected representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37530	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, here's Mr. Habek said more or less basically everything about the tasks of this law, about the establishment of an Air, Maritime and Railway Accident Research Agency. The fact is that so far we have had three laws that each in its part prescribed the possibility of establishing independent bodies to conduct investigations in certain areas. We had the Air Traffic Act, which was created by the Agency for the Research of Accidents and serious aircraft accidents, the Maritime Code. According to the Maritime Code, a security investigation in order to determine the cause of the accident and to propose measures to avoid maritime accidents and to improve the safety of navigation as an activity of interest to the Republic of Croatia, and the basis of public authority should also be exercised by the Agency, functionally and organisationally independent of all the authorities responsible for the maritime area. But so far, services within the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Ministry itself have done so. And in railways too, rail transport also worked only the ministry and services within the ministry. This law provides for the establishment of a unique one, which is good because this is how business is rationalised and certain savings are made possible. It should be said that the agency will have three main investigators, one for each area, and that on the day of its entry into the court register it will take over from the current agency eight workers and one civil servant, and after the adoption of the Statutes and other general acts of the Agency and it will function in the new composition. What may be unusual, is that we order these laws by some other laws, i.e. Article 12 shall cease to apply without these amendments to the law, so that Article 12 shall cease to apply. In accordance with the Air Transport Act, Article 66 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is And paragraph 6. The law on safety in rail transport. Maybe a little unusual, but I'm saying after the government's already established 28 agencies, it's good that we have three obligations in one way through this agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37531	Thank you, too. We will give especially when at our own club, respected representative Ivan Šuker is a replica of the presentation of the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37532	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Boric, it is very interesting that Article 13, which is totally unusual in the legal proposals in paragraph 2, reads: "the Agency's establishment and start of work is secured in the state budget." It's something simple no law contains. This is according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament something that must be an integral part of the bill. So this law itself, Article 13. The law is totally against normative as the laws are written but it is very interesting that this Law enters eight days after its publication in the NN and in the assessment of the sources of the necessary funds, it is said that its financing in 2013 will be covered by the means of the Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure and the Agency for the Research of Accidents and Serious Air Accidents. I don't understand how you could provide the funds, how the funds could be provided at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure if it wasn't known at that time that agencies would be established, what the agency would look like, what its costs were, etc. So the draft law is also contrary to the Rules of Procedure under which the Croatian Parliament works but I say Article 13 is something that is unusual for both colleagues and colleagues if you look at all the drafts of the law like this we have not seen anything else in the law say. Because what will make this item two articles 13 after 31.12.213 his function?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37533	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37534	Comrade Shuker, you are in part right, I have pointed out that it may be unusual for us, with this law, to touch other laws, air traffic laws, the Law of the Sea and the Law of Railway Safety in a way that we should delete certain provisions in those laws without having passed the procedure of the Parliament. That's where those provisions will stay. Anyone who takes that law into their hands won't know that some other law has changed that. As for the Agency's funding for the investigation of accidents and serious aircraft accidents there is, it has its own budget and they join the agency now let's say both part of the maritime and part of the rail transport that was also to be established, which the government has stated that it has provided the funds let's say that we have to trust them. But what is a fundamental issue is the relationship of a new director or director with a board of directors who will have only three members appointed by the government. The European Union and the European Commission have always insisted in negotiations that these people in the boards be independent because it is about investigating accidents, and therefore it is possible, given this relationship within the Board of Directors to come up with a problem and interference in the expertise of those investigators who have given a certain accident to God to be never. It means that this agency doesn't even do its job but that at the time of the accident, it's just that these investigators are really completely independent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37535	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament is the HNS Club and the respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37536	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, A brief review of this bill is one in a series today, which are in fact in the largest part of harmonisation with the EU acquis. The proposal for a law establishing an Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Accidents is, in fact, a proposal stemming from the provisions of existing Laws in the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Air Traffic, the Maritime Code and the Law on Railway Safety. All three of those laws, in their provisions, are apostrophe of the need to establish an independent investigative body as a service of public interest for the Republic of Croatia. The EU acquis also insists and recognises, knows only independent investigative bodies as relevant for such cases. For this reason we are absolutely clear and we are obliged to set up agencies. How we are a small country that should seek rational decision-making and governance effectively and as cheaper as it is, of course, and in itself, too much too much to form three special agencies, but to unite all three functions in one that would be competent, professional, much faster and more efficient in situations where quality traffic accident investigations are needed. If we need such an agency, we can conclude on our own from the experiences of recent years, in the past decades when, unfortunately, frequent accidents occurred in our premises in both rail and maritime transport, less rarely, but also in the air. Often not only with great material damage but also with more injuries and deaths. The investigations carried out afterwards have in some cases made a very pale impression, have opened controversy, have even created public hypotheses to try to cover up certain matters in some situations, as investigations in the area of a particular transport have been carried out by representatives of the resolution ministry. In order to remove any doubts about the future in such tragic circumstances, we consider it very opportunistic and smart to form an independent investigative body not only because of the obligation to comply with EU practice but also because of ourselves. As the funds are said to have been secured in the state budget and what the Resort Ministry expects is that, in accordance with the provisions of this law, the Agency shall establish the Agency as soon as possible and ensure its normal working conditions. We at the HNS will, of course, support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37537	Thank you, Your Honor. We have reports of replicas and the first replica of the respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37538	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is not disputed that the agency should and will have her own business, although we have a little and too much of the agency and it is doubtful whether it takes so many. However, I remain too free to define the governing council and their obligations but also their rights stemming from this, and I think that this little too freely defined, or too large, powers have been given to you as Minister in matters of determining the rights of members of the Governing Council. Although I know that there was still debate here, and unfortunately I had to be absent about it, there was debate about whether it was in line with other laws relating specifically to railways, the Law on Railways, the Law on Safety on Railways. I know they're safe in railways and I know those two laws are currently under public debate. I suppose the texts are consistent. And the agency itself may not be as controversial as its quality, its work will depend on the quality of the personnel to be contributed there. I hope that there will be no key to any party or other belonging, family ties, but that there will be exclusive expertise, but not expertise from that theoretical part, but expertise from those people who know from practice what it means, how there are such accidents at all. We have a good example, unfortunately, of the most difficult example in the recent history of Rudin, which has not even been completed today, and I think, in essence, the administration on this one is a little bit tighter will of the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37539	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37540	In fact, an esteemed colleague of mine in this same way as counterpart Novak was saying, I would only one aspect of the governing council, it is said "the administrative board of the agency is meeting occasionally in accordance with the statute of the agency" and afterwards "the members of the board of directors of the agency have the right to monthly compensation for their work paid out of the Agency's funds" etc. We often act at a time of crisis in this country as if we have too much money. Why wouldn't it make sense that the members of the agency's council are meeting about to the point of not being paid monthly, but being paid by how many meetings they meet. If they meet once a year, God forbid they meet that there are no accidents, so they'll be paid monthly to get some compensation, a thousand, 2,000, 3,000 kunas regardless of work or work. I don't think they're professional functions, first of all they're not people who live on it, and I think you should see that that provision is that they don't get monthly fees but that they pay by I don't know or the diary because I say again, they can meet once in three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37541	Thank you, too. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for discussion on this subject. Final Minister Hajdash Doncic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37542	I thank you all for your constructive discussion. The agency is going to say a new one that will arise, just maybe one clue that Mr. Shucker would have mentioned that article you mentioned in article 13. That's exactly it goes into transitional and final provisions, it's going to be an amendment that will be proposed to the government tomorrow, it's okay. But we will see in principle that we will try to and I believe that the best experts in the order of the sea, railways and air transport will be elected, which will form the administrative council of the agencies themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37543	One replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37544	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, the law doesn't regulate the flat-rate and time-limited funding, and that's what I said. Therefore, Article 13(2) simply cannot stand in law. That's what I was saying. And the next thing you know, that's one thing: it's a rule of law, and the other is a business provision because you can't send a law to a Parliament that is not provided for by means. So if we stick to the provision from when the law will come into force and the provisions are actually arguments about the financial means provided, one with the other is in collapsing. So you're here saying that you're going to use funds to investigate accidents and serious aircraft accidents and that you're going to use some other funds from the ministry, which means that either you didn't plan the funds well in the ministry, or you're going to simply eliminate certain jobs in the ministry and those funds... /The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37545	Please engage, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37546	Mr. Secretary shut me down. So you know exactly how to plan the funds. So I'm saying your argument on the means of insurance and speaking of Article 13, which is contrary to the norms and forms of law making, so I warned that there are certain things in cohesion and that it would be good to correct it. So there's no question that we'll support this. But in order for something to be technically done and well done, so my replica to you and my colleague, Boric, has gone in that direction and you can smile all you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37547	And now the replica of the esteemed Minister of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37548	So I'm not smiling at all, I'm just saying that the remark is yours, so it's going into transitional and final provisions and what's wrong, so the budget is very carefully planned, so it's the funds of the Air Safety Research Agency plus the items that exist, which are now in place or... part of the budget of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure concerning both the railways and the maritime sector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they just become an integral part of the future agency nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37549	Thank you very much. Now we've exhausted the list of reported and the list of replicas. So the debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37550	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law establishing an Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Accidents, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 295. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. I ask Minister Sinisha Hajdash Doncic to first declare himself to the amendments of the Legislative Committee. Amendment 1 to Article 5
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37551	The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment because it is essentially accepted through the adoption of amendments made by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37552	The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment two to Article 26 of the same Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37553	In addition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment because it is essentially accepted through the adoption of amendments made by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37554	The amendment has been withdrawn. We are moving on to the amendments of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Amendment 1 to Article 5?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37555	The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37556	Amendment 2 to Article 8?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37557	Accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37558	It becomes an integral part of the law. Third on Article 9?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37559	The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37560	It also becomes an integral part of the law. Fourth on Article 13?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37561	The government of Rh accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37562	It becomes an integral part of the law. Article 24(a)
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37563	Yes, the government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37564	It becomes an integral part of the law. And the sixth on Article 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37565	Also, the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37566	I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that, unanimously with 110 votes for the passed law on the establishment of an Air, Maritime and Railway Traffic Research Agency, it is proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37567	We move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law on the gradual exclusion from the navigation of tankers without double-plating, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 344; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the proposal for a final bill into the boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. We can endure the amendments until the end of the debate, i.e. In accordance with Article 164(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the competent working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. On behalf of the motionary, Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the respected Sinisa Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37568	Thank you very much, President. Here's a very short one. The Law on the gradual exclusion from double-plating of tankers was passed in 2004 and now Regulation 417 202 so the day of Croatia's entry into the European Union begins to apply directly, and therefore there is no longer any need to state the need for that law in 2004 and that is the Law without double-plating adopted in 2004. This law therefore lays down the conditions for the direct notification of that Regulation which is therefore directly transposed into national legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37569	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We have one application for an individual hearing of Mirel Holly. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37570	Thank you, Vice President. I'm going to be very brief, very pleased to support this proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the gradual exclusion from the navigation of tankers without double-plating. As with great pleasure back then, I was working at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and I welcomed the information that we have received this law that we are actually repealing today. And we are abolishing it because we are taking over the acquis of the European Union in this part that is stricter than... the International Convention on the Protection of Seas against Contaminants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which is why this is an extremely important topic, the Adriatic Sea is a closed sea, it is relatively shallow and it is a definitive fact that we would have had to have a handcuff from one of the tankers and unfortunately there are very great risks as long as the Adriatic Sea is sailing tankers that do not have a double shell. And that is why, in the greatest Croatian interest, it must be to speed up this procedure and to exclude as quickly as possible from sailing to the Adriatic Sea ships that do not have a double shell and carry these oils. These are different oil oils, mules and the like and their spilling into the Adriatic Sea would be devastating, not only for biodiversity in the Adriatic, but also long term for all economic activities on our coast and especially for tourism. And here it is, I'm glad we're taking on the acceleration of these procedures this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37571	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37572	We move on to the final draft of the law on the termination of the law on the gradual exclusion from the navigation of tankers without double-plating, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P-Z. E. No. 334. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that it is unanimous with 109 votes for the adopted Law on the termination of the Law on the gradual exclusion from the navigation of tankers without double-plating in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37573	And another proposal means: - Final proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the Split port renewal project, emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z. No. 306; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the Proposer, please elect a minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37574	Vice President of the Parliament. On 17 December 2012, a guarantee agreement was signed between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the primary infrastructure reconstruction project at Split port, so on 15 years of repayment, with a grace period of 4 years. It is therefore credit funds through the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure through the Port Authority of Split which are intended to build two connections for the acceptance of ships of 270 metres in one connection and 320 meters on the second link of the two 28-meter-wide roll-off ramp over which will take place, or landing of vehicles and passengers, manipulative surfaces and binding facilities. We will just point out that the transport of Split port is on average a year, so about 4.2 million passengers and about 650 thousand vehicles, which will actually increase the existing capacity by this investment in primary infrastructure. Thus, as a city, Split gets the opportunity to provide I will say a tourist service to those biggest cruisers, which has not been possible so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37575	I thank the ministers. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're starting a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ club Nevenka Becic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37576	Thank you very much. I welcome Mr. Vice President, and I welcome Mr. Secretary, my distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the Port Split Infrastructure Reconstruction Project, with the final proposal for a law, I would refer to some of the circumstances which are important and are in connection with the adoption of the proposed law. Namely, Luka Split is the most important port in which the traffic of passengers and tourists towards Dalmatian islands takes place, while daily there is a ferry line with our neighbouring Italy. Respecting the historical heritage, mainly cultural and respecting 1700 years of Split's tradition, it cannot be avoided that it is an inevitable destination for all ships that sail the Mediterranean. As the recently respected minister said, there are some 4.2 million passengers through that port with 650 to 700 thousand vehicles. However, after the project is realised, experts expect the transport of passengers and tourists through the port to exceed the figure of 7 million. Today Luka Split is the third port in the Mediterranean after the traffic has been achieved, but after this investment is realised to expect Luka Split to be able to take over... in the Mediterranean and threaten Naples. It is expected that after such a significant investment Luka Split could be found first. I cannot help but point out that the previous Government led by Mrs. Jadranka Kosor recognized the importance of this investment investment, and already in November 2011 an idea project for investment in Luke Split's infrastructure to build additional bonds, additional ramps, and also recognised the current Croatian Government headed by Prime Minister Milanovic, so already in November 2012 it decided to approach the creation and conclusion of a guarantee agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. At the same time, she also made a decision to grant consent to the Port Authority of Split for the conclusion of a loan agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Respecting the fact that the Republic of Croatia has been a full member of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 20 years, respecting the fact that this bank has technically provided and provided services to the Republic of Croatia and respecting the fact that the most significant part of the financial resources has just been withdrawn from the Bank over the past 20 years, it has been expected that this project is also trying to be resolved by credit and to provide the necessary financial resources through this financial institution. As a citizen of the City of Split, I am extremely pleased that this project is going into realisation. I am pleased that the governments have recognised the importance of this project for the development of the City of Split, Split-Dalmatin County and the Republic of Croatia as a whole. It'll be one economic climber for the region below. Of course, one such investment venture carries with it multiple benefits, benefits, opportunities for the engagement of construction operations and all accompanying resources, both productive and serviceable, which can participate in competitions and engage in the realisation of this development project, the project to restore the infrastructure of Luke Split. Also, one of the significant benefits at this time when the recession is still ruling in our area and when jobs are removed daily, one of the major shifts and features and positive effects of this investment is exactly the possibility of jobs to be opened during the project's realisation itself, as well as after the project is completed. There will be a source of existence and improvement of its standard of living for many families and it will serve not only for their well-being but also for the well-being of the wider social community. I am delighted that this project of investment in the reconstruction of the Port Authority Split is moving and, as it stands here in the materials, I would refer to that loan, as Mr. Honorable Minister mentioned earlier, was concluded on a 15-year deadline with a grace period of 4 years. However, the Port Authority of Split as a beneficiary of the loan, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development as a lender and the Republic of Croatia as a guarantee for it will sign contracts with commercial conditions under which, therefore, at an amount of 18 million and 800 000 euros with commercial conditions which act extremely favourable at first. I primarily mean the interest rate expressed here as EURIBOR + 1%. Commercially, this is an extremely favourable interest rate, but if we analyze these contracts from them for a little longer, there is a compensation for the processing of the 0.5% loan, it is commercially acceptable and well agreed. However, when we look at the rate of the entry fee of 1%, I am not personally satisfied. Maybe it took a little more skill to conduct the negotiations, and this rate shouldn't have crossed 0.5% for me. This is the commercial view of what on the market, the financial market for capital could currently be, in my opinion, feasible. So, just one little segment stuck in my eye and it was a thorn. Somehow, I'd be a lot more content if it wasn't 1%, but that's 0.5%. Then she would consider that the costs of obtaining these financial resources are extremely favourable for the recipient of the loan to the Port Authority of Split, while also for the Republic of Croatia which appears here as a bail-payer, and is bound by the basis of a guarantee contract which I am confident we here in the Assembly vote to sign because this is a praiseworthy project. And he will bring considerable economic benefits through multiple elements. And that is why I am convinced that we will all accept it and that it will be voted unanimously. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Republic of Croatia, by signing a guarantee agreement, will commit not only if the recipient of the loan to the Port Authority of Split will not be able to repay the anunities, so the Republic of Croatia undertakes to provide financial resources from the budget and to repay those assets to the lender in due time within the maturity and service periods. At the same time, signing a guarantee agreement, the Republic of Croatia undertakes that if these 18 million and 800 thousand euros are insufficient to end investment in the reconstruction of the infrastructure, Luke Split will provide additional funds from the budget that will allow the investment project to end. Furthermore, this guarantee agreement also obliges the Republic of Croatia to, in the event of any possible disputes arising from various stakeholders, whether they are natural persons, whether they are legal persons, which would arise, for example, because of the threatened environment or something third, with complaints against the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, its directors, employees or someone who is in their composition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to take all such risks on itself and to relieve any risks to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Nevertheless, I consider this to be extremely good, good for citizens and citizens of the city of Split. And after this project is realised and this investment investment is completed, and I am convinced that the government will speed up the implementation of this project and respecting the fact, and what I cannot mention is that in Split these days construction and western shores have been completed. The city of Split will get a lot on the rating, on beauty, on the content of what it offers to the traveller primarily tourists. Because let's not forget that in these last two, three years, the city of Split has transformed from a transit city to a tourist center. We are fortunately down there to record the appearance of the tourist remains on average from 7 to 10 days in the town of Split. This length of detention in the city of Split is also increased year by year to the satisfaction of the citizens and citizens of the city of Split, who because of the crisis and recession, and in order to achieve their family existence, even from the old town centre, move out during the summer, and place their apartments in the function of accommodation facilities, rent them to tourists in a way that I say improve their standards and standards of themselves and their families, and also serve and use the common good. That is why this project, so the construction of the berths, two connections to the boat berths, two ramps in which the cargo, loading, landing of passengers and vehicles will be of exceptional importance for the development of tourism both in the city of Split, the Dalmatian islands and its hinterland. I welcome this initiative and I am pleased to conclude and I believe that all colleagues and colleagues will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37577	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. I thank Minister Hajdash Doncic. I'm determining a break. We continue at 15.00 hours with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, first reading, P.Z. No. 270.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37578	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the infrastructure reconstruction project Luke Split, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 306. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I would like to point out that most of the 109 votes voted in favour of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the Luke Split Infrastructure Reconstruction Project are in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37579	Our colleagues and colleagues are before us - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, first reading, P.Z. No. 270; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter is also Minister of Science, Education and Sports Željko Jovanovic. Introduce yourself, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37580	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs and MPs. Here I am proudly standing before you to present everything we have done in recent months and how we have imagined that the system of higher education and science in the Republic of Croatia is moving faster on the threshold of EU entry. When we started with the amendments to this law, we were guided by the fact that the Republic of Croatia is in a difficult economic situation, that our system of science and higher education is underfunded, unrealized, unadjusted to social needs, poorly regulated, poorly managed, that it is under-productive, insufficiently competitive, under-innovative and insufficiently encouraged. That he is not responsible enough for the general public, for young scientists and for the Croatian future. That the system is shaken by corruption, irregularities, unethical behaviours of some of its stakeholders who rarely suffer consequences, which in public view has violated the reputation and credibility of this system and of all its stakeholders. We can all agree that if there are problems in a system, then to solve these problems, we must think differently and do things differently than it seemed when these problems were being created. That's why the moment we took over this resort, we said that in all segments from education to science we would go in two directions. The first direction is to amend existing legislation in order to address the burning problems and, at the same time, to start making a whole new strategy for development, education, science and technology, which should be completed at our request by the time we enter the EU and then build from that strategy a whole series of new documents, action plans, laws so that at the end of this term we have a completely new system from pre-school education to doctoral studies. Therefore, what I would like to say at first is that the frequent remark that has been heard about the amendments to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, which binds these changes to the strategy, is completely wrong. Therefore, the new law stems from the strategy, and the amendments to the existing law relate to the other two strategic documents that have already been adopted. This is the Programme of the Croatian Government 2011-2015, strategic guidelines for the work of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and, of course, strategic guidelines for development, education, science and technology brought together by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the academic community and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. What I want to say at the beginning is that at the threshold of EU accession, the system of science and higher education of the Republic of Croatia marks the challenges and the inherited unsatisfactory level of some of the key indicators of these activities. Like most transition countries in Central and Eastern Europe, similar experiences are expected soon and others, Croatia will face exciting new opportunities by joining the EU in a few months. One of these options is stronger integration into the European research and European space of higher education. At the same time, however, these options mean that all activities of Croatian science and education will be increasingly compared and measured compared to the current 27 EU member states. The problem of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2011-2015 aims to bring the objectives and achievements of the science and higher education sector into line with those of the Europe 2020 Strategy, which promotes smart, sustainable and inclusive development. However, the current Croatian results according to some of the key indicators continue to show that there is significant potential for progress, and precisely by the changes we propose we want to boost this progress more strongly. What must be pointed out at the very beginning, which is that the proportion of Croatia's GDP of 0.75% intended for research and development activities is far lower than the EU member states' average currently at 2,03% and it has been for several years. Furthermore, contrary to trends in the EU's most developed countries, most of these funds, 55%, are public expenditure. So the percentage that we set out for research and development comes from the state budget, while in the EU it is largely investment from the private sector. Of course, Croatia has an objective problem, and this is because of the structure of the Croatian economy in which 92% of all micro-enterprises that have an average of 1.9 employees represent an obstacle to more intensive investment in research and development than what comes from the state budget. Clearly, such a structure represents a very limited potential for innovation and investment in R & D. What is encouraging, however, is that in the last 5.6 years, including this year, and especially after the last budget rebalance, Croatian science funds are growing. Although the average innovation index shows progress from 0.26 in 2007 to 0.302 in 2012 Croatia remains in a group of moderate innovators with below average results and lags behind transition countries such as Hungary where the innovation index is 0.32 or Slovenia even 0.50. According to EUROSTAT, Croatian innovators currently report less than 6 patents per million inhabitants to the European Patent Office and the average is 110 for the EU Member States. So 6 versus 110, while the most successful countries achieve more than 1,000 patents a year. Although the level of success of Croatian applications in the FP7 contest was 17.25%, less than the EU average of 21.77%. Croatian scientists have managed to attract a little more than 59m euros this way, which is 40% more than our national contribution. The proportion of population between 30 and 34 years of age with completed higher education in Croatia is 24.5% while the EU averages 34.6. In Croatia, only 3% of the early active population aged 25 to 64 are included in some forms of lifelong learning, while in EU countries the average participation is 10%, and in some more than 30%. Quality assurance in the higher education science sector in Croatia coordinated by our Agency for Science and Higher Education has a leading place in the region. Data that many may not know, the number of Croatian higher universities has increased from 6 universities, 7 universities and 15 higher schools in 2003 to 10 universities, 15 universities and 30 higher schools in 2012. In the same period of time, there was a paradoxal leap that spoke about all the problems of the sickle process, which is that in higher education the number of study programs increased from 400 to 1200. We have a forest of study programs not rarely without any connection to the labour market. What I would particularly like to emphasise, given that some critics of this proposal, for my very absurd reasons, say that this proposal is going towards commercialisation and privatisation of higher education and science systems, which is indeed an absurd assessment. I don't see any reason to think that way, but I respect everyone's opinion. However, I would like to say that in Croatia only 6 study programmes and only 7% of students are located at private high schools. It will likely be interesting for the public to study about 200,000 students in higher education in Croatia at the moment, while in 1990 there were only 70,000. About 60% of these students attend study programmes in the field of social and humanistic sciences, 25% attend technical studies programmes, and less than 10% of programmes in the field of natural, bio-medical and bio-technological sciences. This, of course, is not in line with the needs of the labour market and is one of the significant causes of youth unemployment in Croatia with completed higher education of 14%. Unfortunately, in this respect, we are at the very top, third place behind Greece and Spain. The increase in students, the number of students from 70 to 200,000, is one of the reasons why such a huge increase in teaching staff has occurred, which was 26% in recent years, although very often without structural institutional staff policies. Furthermore, the rules of progress within the scientific activity in the system of public higher education and science from lowest to highest calling are set in a way that today, which is paradoxical and nowhere in the world is so, almost 40% of the entire scientific staff has the most possible call of a scientific advisor. Progress in science is fast and relatively simple, so that in the community of about 6000 constantly employed scientists about 1500 annually advances to more calling, among which more than 60% of them progress faster than the prescribed five-year cycle of advancement, and more scientists in the late 30s or early 40s manage to reach the highest status of academic calling. Furthermore, while this is cited in the legislation as an exception, I would particularly like to draw attention to the fact that almost 80% of all scientific and teaching staff, who have reached the age-limit for retirement of 65 years of life, continue their working relationship in their institutions, which practically makes it impossible to enter the system of young scientists. All indicators in both Croatia and the world show that younger scientists and scientific productivity are more productive than their older colleagues. All of these lead to a system of science and higher education to an uninterrupted increase in the share of the total wage budget, so the current percentage in the budget is 82%, relative rates increase 5% annually and such a trend is of course unsustainable. The second is that Croatian science is specific throughout the world, which is that the scientific projects financed from the state budget have very strange features, the success of the application is at 85%. So everyone who applies, 85% goes to the competition. Nearly 2,000 projects are currently being financed and monitored, but on average, less than 2.5 active scientists and 1.2 scientific recruits are working on these individual projects, and each project has an average of around 6,500 euros per year. So it's all inherited. Such a fragmentation of the research potential is unsustainable and is one of the significant samples of the relatively unsatisfactory achievements of the Croatian scientific opus. We talked a lot about work, just a few data. The number of scientific papers in the relevant databases is approximately 0.8 works per year, which may even be considered to be relatively satisfactory and proportionate with investment in research and development, especially when taking into account the stable growth of that number. However, the quality of scientific production is not satisfactory. In fact, only 3% of Croatian scientific papers were published in 10% of the world's most quoted scientific publications, while the average in EU member states we want to get close to 11%, I repeat 3% - 11%. According to the number of quotes and the H index, the impact of Croatian science is also not at the level of the impact of science from other transition countries such as Hungary, Slovakia or Slovenia. Furthermore, less than 400 Croatian scientific works per million inhabitants are the result of joint international authors with less than 30 Croatian works per million inhabitants. The comparisons for Iceland or the Scandinavian countries bring together a joint international announcement from 1250 to 2500 works per million inhabitants. And finally, what is particularly painful for the academic community in the Republic of Croatia, which is that some recent research points to a significant frequency of dishonest activities in the scientific and higher education community in Croatia both by employees and by students. The data suggests that as many as 60% of students are subscribed to exams, and that, even if a number of students were asked for money as a condition for successful exams. Nine percent of teaching staff claim they were offered money to enable students to pass their exams successfully. 50-60% of the scientific staff have knowledge of the undeserved authorship of certain scientific papers, about half of the scientific staff is justified by the pressure of the promotion obligation to several scientific professions. I'm gonna do this one more time. 50-60% of the scientific staff have knowledge of the undeserved authorship of certain scientific papers and about half of the scientific staff is justified by the pressure of the promotion obligation on several scientific calls. 30% of the scientific staff are familiar with plagiarism cases, 53% are familiar with the phenomenon of nepotism, 20% with the phenomenon of political favoration. But what's most tragic? The most tragic thing is that 80-90% of the scientific staff familiar with the cases of impious actions did nothing to expose these cases. These results are unfortunately presented by the latest police activities, which revealed cases of sales of exams for significant sums of money, which included a number of students and part of the scientific staff. Some of these cases have been accused and some of those persons have been found guilty of involvement in criminal acts even by judicial indemnity. Here's a picture of our state of education and science. What are we trying to do with this proposal? I will quote our distinguished academic president of Mr. Kusic's Academy who says: "Croatia loves it most when it works hard and acts responsibly by respecting the relevant world criteria when we compare ourselves to the best, when we want to meet their standards. Proposed amendments to the Law of Scientific Activity to the higher education which is ahead of you wants exactly that. He wants Croatian science to measure with international criteria, wants to create from Croatian science the main drivers of the development of Croatian society as a whole. In the motion ahead of you, I'm going to single out a few facts. Therefore, the competence and structure of the new National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development is directed towards monitoring higher education, scientific activities, the innovation system so that it does indeed work strategically without burdening itself with administrative data and business. We define a clearer selection process in scientific and scientific teaching professions and jobs, more detailing the conditions for exceptional stay in scientific and scientific teaching jobs after 65 years. Co-operational jobs of assistants and after doctorate to stand out, we highlight the additional selection for post doctorate and public competitions of cooperative jobs are linked to the staff needs and plans of institutions. We are looking for a clearer definition of extraordinary studies, a clearer definition is made of species after graduate professional studies according to European standards, a clearer definition of integrated studies, ECTS points are coordinated with European ones, and conditions for carrying out joint different studies as well as professional training programmes are defined. I particularly stress the definition of the obligation of higher universities to keep records and databases and to introduce national databases so that planning procedures can be better implemented. You have heard problems with unethical behaviour, therefore we propose strengthening the role and authority of the Committee on Ethics in science and higher education to raise professional responsibility and respect for the Croatian scientific community in the country and abroad. One of the paradoxes of the current law, almost incomprehensible that the minister does not have any powers concerning the problems of the student standard, and therefore the proposal gives the minister the power to adopt a rule governing the rights of the student standard for part of the budget in the power of the minister. So as you can see, this is about the changes we want to make in cooperation with the academic community and other stakeholders of society, we want to enable Croatian science, Croatian higher education to be an equal and competitive part of the European educational and scientific research space. The key words that we are conducting in our work are responsibility and transparency, competence, efficiency, quality, focus on priorities, policy development, the social dimension of education and science, and internationalisation and mobility. I'm glad I spent yesterday and today practically all day at two universities, universities in Pula, universities in Rijeka. We've talked about a number of topics, so I can say this too, and I can really say that the vast majority of the scientists I've talked to are supporting the direction drawn by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. I can also say that today, with great pleasure in Rijeka, at the Rijeka University, we launched a Senate decision established a Centre for Advanced Studies of South East Europe in the field of social humanist science, giving the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports a clear message to support social humanistic sciences that will go towards international visibility, greater reading and greater visibility. This is actually true for the entire Croatian science for which this law certainly follows a period in which it will be more quality than it has been so far and I ask you to support this proposal, a proposal for such changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37581	Thank you, Minister. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? We've registered three replicas. First responds Vice President Zeljko Rainer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37582	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, of course I'll look back a little later on to the very text of the law. However, I must say encouraged by certain allegations of the state of Croatian science that objective data should be viewed. So when it is said that Croatian science is not good, it is not productive, etc. Then we need to look at internationally comparable data and when we look at how much money has been invested in a published scientific article we are 31 countries of the seventh and we are better than the United States, Great Britain, Sweden, France, Germany, and so on. Because these countries for one scientific work and science as well as many other things are measured exclusively by productivity, means the scientific works published in the world's metrics journals give incomparably more money for this one scientific work than Croatia gives. So if we compare ourselves to those countries, it's not so bad. If we look at the H index or the citation then it grows, the echo of Croatian science grows it was 118, 2010 is 132. Therefore, the echo of Croatian contributions to science is growing. Croatia has 0.06% of the world population, and science contributes to 2011 data with 0.25%. So we're still five times better than expected. And compared to earlier years, let's say in 1996 it was 0.15% now it's 0.25% so it's growing and it's comparable to far more developed countries that give a lot more money for science than we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37583	Thank you, too. Next replica Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37584	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister referred to some inethical events in higher education. Our students copy a lot more than foreign students, which may be a fact. But why do we have to answer that question? I was in the U.S., so in one college, I attended the exam, and no one prescribed it. And I asked the student chief there why students don't copy here. So he says for two reasons, one is why I should let my colleague prescribe from me, so he'll get on the success curve more and get a job before me, and the other, when I come to the employer, he won't ask me what paper I have than I know how to do. So I'm going to the knowledge exam for that. It's a similar situation with what you mentioned by cramming with authorship, so by false authorship of works. People are tripping, that there are 4, 5, 6 scientists most often professors who have not worked are, of course, coauthors because the doctor can't avoid it because of the reasons you said. But there's also a cause in the system. Progress in our sciences and scientific and teaching skills has been reduced to collecting points and the election process can be carried out today by any better secretary. You have papers worth so much and so many points because they are published in this place and no one is alive looking at the quality of these works. Mr Einstein probably couldn't have gotten any further from the docent in our system because he had a little bit of work. There's no way I'd get points. So the joke is primarily in the system, not that our students and our teachers are more dishonest or I don't know, God forbid they're dumber than others.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37585	Thank you. And the last replicas of Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37586	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the opening statement, Mr. Minister, you have touched little or very little when it comes to the network of our universities in the Republic of Croatia. This is if I am not mistaken for the 7 universities of Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, Split, Dubrovnik, Zagreb and Osijek. Is that justified in previous periods? I believe so, but I think we should, when it comes to the Ministry of Science and all together and local communities and the government as a whole, support the development of our universities. Here, for example. Mr. Minister, don't think colleagues and colleagues are dragging everyone into their own backyard but, for example, In Slavonski Brod there is a Faculty of Engineering which is a component of the University of Strossmayer in Osijek, there is a Higher Teacher School which is a dislocated study of the Faculty of Osijek, the Faculty of Osijek and there is a university with three programs, engineering, agriculture and management. I consider Slavonski Brod as a border town that in one reasonable time in 5 to 7, 8 years, when the conditions are met, it could become a university city in perspective, of course if we meet the conditions required by the local community. So, therefore, on thinking to all of us, and to you, Mr. Minister, that in the future network of universities we might also count on another university in 100 km before Osijek, 180 BC, 50 from Požega and counting on it, I apologize for spending precious time, because our students from this section are going to study towards BiH. Why don't we do it in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37587	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, Walter Boleunčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37588	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honourable assembly members of the Parliament. I must say immediately that the IDS Club will support this Law on Science and Higher Education because we believe it is necessary to carry out certain technical changes primarily in order to make science and higher education work in a better way. There has been a lot of talk in the introduction about the quality of science, sometimes, and first of all just to state the law is being talked about, this is the addition of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education still needs to be taken into account that especially high education in Croatia is at a quality level. In addition to this, the fact that a significant number of our young students either as a continuation of the business of their own scientific work goes out of the country and there managed to achieve enviable successes and careers on either business, or in the scientific section. This law, as such, deals more with scientific activity, so changes in scientific activity than changes in higher education itself. One of the basic questions raised, which the minister also touched, is whether to go with these changes at all now, since the development of a strategy for science education and technological development is in place, which, by some indications, should, i.e. At least it's due to be completed by 1. Seven. Personally, I think this proposal should go with it. I am personally sorry that this amendment to the Law did not work out a year ago because the changes contained in this proposal are such changes that do not depend on what the strategy for the development of higher education science will be. First of all, I hold them to changes aimed at making changes to the higher education and science system in an organisational sense. If anything, at least these little 0.75% invested in science could be used better. So if we look at the parts that change these amendments to the law, and you witnessed for yourself that there was a lot of talk in the public debate about it, we could sort of say three points were very important. One point was about postdoc means assistants and postdoc, the second point was about the call elections which was most critical probably in public and the third point was retirement at 65 years of age. As for retirement at the age of 65 in this bill, the initial provision was removed that it must be gone, i.e. the initial provision was that only 3% could remain and work after 65 years. And so it is introduced in some way stronger criteria for staying in a working relationship after 65 years. But I note that this is about the fact that these persons can remain in working relation to the burden of the ministry. According to this proposal, any scientific worker may, after 65 years in any call, remain in operation if his institution has its own resources, whether it is done through a project or through the need for teaching. Although he's fulfilling some other traits that are basically better than before. By now, according to this proposal, the conditions for staying after 65 years would be adopted by the National Council. Yes, and this is the fourth perhaps important point for the two so far National Councils for Education, Higher Education and Science to be joined into one, i.e. become one of the National Council for Education, Higher Education, Science and Technological Development. As far as fasting is concerned, it may be one of the very critical issues at the moment because a significant number of young scientists after, above all, having been scientific money, participated in the work on projects, achieved the calling choices, many of them met the conditions for choice and in scientific titles, simply do not have jobs. They were actually admitted for a certain time. On the one hand, the problem is that it can be related to science funding because as long as private sectors and businesses see no reason to give money for science and higher education, we can understand that it does not see reasons for highly educated people, Doctors of science to receive in a working relationship. It is, of course, quite wrong, if we want to develop in a knowledge society, in technology, then at least in today's 21st century all technology companies, pharmaceutical firms, etc. I can't survive without a doctor of science. I think that the economy on the one hand should not only benefit from investing money but should see what benefits young people can offer highly educated where there is a significant number of these people, some of their education spent on, in other countries, above all in the countries of the West, such as Germany, France, America and Italy. On the other hand, one of the problems of science, which sometimes, because of perhaps the life-style in Europe, is more present than in America, is the situation of having a young scientist who is in a doctorate, remains working in some way to replace his entire working life. In other countries it is highly preferable that science and knowledge is something that circulates the sea, in some countries it is not allowed, let's say in America that you stay and work at that university or university where you were doctored. Of course, it may not be easy for us to do so, especially because of the situation that moving out of the city is a problem for you from accommodation, apartment, etc. means the whole economic situation. But one of the basics of knowledge and higher education is the circulation of the professor's staff and that it comes to the fact that if someone finishes a doctorate at one university that he might still have to look for a job if he needs it for his own quality on the other. So I believe that this proposal is quite good, but there is a need for it in the economic situation. Namely, closing science in narrow circles that succeed with "horse on horse", which would say is definitely something that is not good for science. The third part that caused the most reluctance is the election's calling. Under the current rule, after 5 years, or after three years, if someone has conditions, they can go into multiple calls, they can be selected once again for the same calling, if there are no conditions and after that they are out of work. This led to the situation that there are almost so many regular professors and most young people entering the system. And in some ways, that pyramid is vice versa, which is definitely not natural. In some earlier drafts of the law, we had another situation that defended it, there was a proposal of course on those Fuchs laws and that it couldn't be achieved in a way that limited the number that could be chosen, which is completely wrong because then it turns out whoever came before was elected and the other if it's better, there's nothing to do about it. I believe that this proposal, which is next said to be elected to multiple titles because after a certain number of years that are not now limited to 5 but when an employee estimates that he is capable, that he is going to choose more titles with more difficult conditions of progress and that every year, I think that the bill has written for 4 years, the report writes about the work he has achieved, and that on that basis he can remain if he gets a positive assessment of his work remains in the system if he gets a negative assessment of his work twice in a row to get out of the system. That part I think is fine, but it would still require a lot of work, especially through the rules. I think there should be a work report every three years. I think that this work report should not work alone, but should also have a commission of at least three members, because if not at the level of the state, and at least at the level of his university or university, it would adopt rules which he still has to make, and that his contribution would be assessed positively, therefore not only to be assessed. And secondly, I think that this would result in profiling better quality scientists because once again, work is not just a work in science, this is a work in science and higher education. If someone has a specific choice in scientific activity, they can work fully in the area of higher education without the need to progress to the highest level. But I'm saying, I think it would also be one filter that you should see through maybe regulations or collective agreements what repercusions are or rewards for those who are progressing in calling rewards, repercussions for who is not progressing. This can be achieved, for example. that those who do not progress are treated to be more of a teaching calling, not in the sense of present lecturers that it is more dedicated to continuing. You should probably have more than 300 norms of hours, you shouldn't be teaching perhaps in doctoral studies, you shouldn't be in charge of the project, so the main researcher on the project should be more burdened with teaching, while those scientists who somehow succeed in achieving the conditions and progress could give more of their time to the scientific section and therefore work on scientific activities, research, doctoral studies, etc. I think that such an approach would be quite important because in some ways it must make a difference and reward for those who succeed in publishing science, and those who fail have to achieve some minimum, but should therefore be busy with some other things. That would certainly be an introduction to what is said about software contracts, centres of excellence. In this way, the foundation of the number of such scientists who are progressing and obtaining projects could be quite well assessed by the universities and universities, etc. and centres of excellence which would result from the ministry through the programme contract and more money for scientific activity. I might have mentioned one thing that was touched by the minister, if he hadn't had any impact on the student standard so far. Perhaps that student standard has been neglected in some other parts, now the question is whether they go into this law and regulations. I have been mentioned once, too, there is a problem with regular students who do not study in Croatia but in other countries. With 1.7 if they are in the European Union countries, this will likely be overcome, but there are students who are also studying outside the European Union. Someone in Europe can be in Switzerland, Russia, in New Zealand, America, Australia. These students are actually regular if they come home in the summer they can't work through the student center. I think you should make a rule that a regular student, no matter where in the world is a regular student and the rules that are up to 26 years old, gets confirmation from his institution that he's a regular student that he has the rights of a regular student. That's two rights. One is the right to be employed through a student centre, and the other is the right to health insurance. We now have students who study in, say, Ljubljana, Trieste, etc., who are regular and who can't actually get regular health insurance through the family. I think it's probably along with the Ministry of Health that regular students can have all the rights whatever country they're in as long as they're a regular student to a certain age line. I believe, of course, that the amount of money that is allocated to science is too small, although the rebalance has increased by 40 million kuna. Until the economy sees the benefits of science, that percentage will still be small. It needs to see their benefit through the employment of quality educated young people, doctors of science and thus to see that it can be dealt with by countries that have much better technological development. So there are a lot more technical remarks, maybe, but once again, here we end up supporting this law. I hope that the remarks that have been heard from the academic community in these almost a year or so as to be spoken, either with some other rules that have triggered noise in the public and what is... during the debate will be able to introduce this law, and I hope that, also after the adoption of the strategy, it will turn towards the formation of whether laws or objectives in science are something else than one of these changes of law should be passed, and these are the support of certain sciences, the establishment of incubators, the center of excellence, etc. Once again, I hope the ministry will be able to appreciate the remarks and I hope that this law will live for the next academic year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37589	Thank you, too. We have two replicas on your exhibit. First responds Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37590	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Boluncic, you mentioned as one of three main problems, a problem that is not even more important to me, which is a question of 65-year-olds and their stay in the system. There are incomparably bigger problems related to this bill, however, when we mention this already, it should be made clear about this group of suspicious 65-year-olds, one entire maze of obstacles to the right to 1-year-olds, I stress a 1-year-old extension of employment relations. So the first candidate must meet the criteria of excellence special to them by the National Council, the second is then universities are encouraged to bring additional criteria of excellence. What are the additional criteria of excellence for people who have achieved their top at 65 years of age? It's hard for me to say and it's illogical, but good. Third, a special expert commission must make a report on whether this person meets the conditions of scientific excellence. Fourthly, on the basis of the expert committee's report, the parent committee makes a decision to meet the criteria of scientific excellence. Fifth, the expert committee's report, in parallel with the parent committee, confirms the commission appointed by the National Council. And on the sixth, I guess the candidate eventually either raised his hands or died, and then he could be granted a one-year extension of his working relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37591	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Boluncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37592	I didn't say it was three basic problems of the law, but I said it was three points that were most talked about in public. As regards these points that must be passed by the candidate, they are except that the additional conditions of the National Council are determined, they are those steps that must be passed through the normal choice that everyone else is going through. If, like now, the election is going to take a year and a half, two days, then I'm sure the candidate will wait that long. But that's who goes into any choice almost the same number of steps now maybe the report that the three-member committee adopts is a replacement for the council. Thus, this procedure is not relevant from the procedure to be followed by the draft law in the selection. I didn't say it was a law issue. I merely stated that these were the three points that were most disputed in public regarding the bill's proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37593	Thank you. Another replica, Iron Lucky Flego. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37594	You said that the obligation to advance is quite dangerous for the academic system, because it led to the inflation of professors, so we have a reverse pyramid, we have very many professors and few docents. That's what you're afraid of. I'm afraid you're among those who are colporting incorrect data because the obligation to advance is not responsible because we have a lot of teachers and we have adequate inflation. There has always been a commitment to progress in this country, because you could have been once elected and only once said ban. If you haven't been promoted, you've lost your job. And that's how it's left in this law. Why do we have a large quantity of forty-year-olds as professors who, in part, do not meet the conditions prescribed by the Rector's Assembly is something that really needs to be thought about. But this is not the responsibility of this measure, because in my court, the obligation to advance in science is an integral part of the scientific work. Science is the fastest-developed activity in the world. And if we're not progressing in science then we become obsolete and we actually stop being scientists and then I repeat the obligation to advance in science is not the answer to this reverse pyramid, and everything is responsible and what affected it should be the subject of a very serious study.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37595	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Boluncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37596	As far as the number of professors is concerned, I told you about the number we received in the bill. I wasn't the one who went to colleges to watch how many calls there were. So I'm repeating the numbers that were told here how many professors, professors, election professors there are. As for the obligation to advance... If it wasn't for her, I wouldn't agree. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that when the Regulation was adopted in 2003 or fourth that at the beginning they were going with rather stronger conditions in order to reduce it considerably after a short period of time with the changes in the rules. The consequence is, I think it's one causal relationship that needs to be considered. In many EU countries, as we had the opportunity to see at the presentation in them, twenty are not obliged, but if you don't go on calling anymore, that doesn't mean you're left alone. You should have a report from the commission that says you still deserve that place. So to say the numbers as far as, uh... with those figures that we received in the bill, and I think it's one danger because in the end it came to progress every three years and that this is one serious problem that in some way does not create the difference between really quality and perhaps less quality, but enough quality people to be in a system of higher education and science. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37597	Thank you. On behalf of SDP representative Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37598	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the period 2011 to 2015 stresses its commitment to higher education and scientific research that will be in line with labour market needs. The programme stressed that the development of science and technology systems and higher education will take place among other measures, from the promotion of university cooperation, scientific institutes, research institutes with the economy, the publication of the achievements of higher universities of public institutions, the development of an effective model of funding of public universities and scientific institutes with a whole budget, the maximum inclusion of Croatian universities in the European area of higher education, the establishment of scientific and research centres of excellence, the staff renewal of public institutes with special care for scientific recruits, especially those most successful, strict adherence to scientific and academic honesty by continuous monitoring and analysis of the success of the Bologna process, and the taking of measures to improve Croatia's quality of teaching and scientific research by taking up to shorter but more quality study by increasing the number of students in terms of high levels of education and education. By ensuring internal and external, horizontal and vertical mobility, especially international cooperation in all forms and at all levels, by supporting Croatian scientific publicity, especially international high-level magazines. It's a very demanding program. Furthermore, the new challenge facing the Republic of Croatia is also to bring the scientific system into line with the changes and progress of the European Research Area in the context of the recent accession of our country to the EU, and, in line with this, to build up guidelines for a new Europe 2020 strategy, a framework that defines and directs the development of science and higher education systems. The European strategy puts particular emphasis on the concept of intelligent growth that unites a large number of elements including raising the quality of education, improving research activities, promoting innovation and transfer of knowledge, making full use of information and communication technologies, and ensuring conditions for commercialising new products and services. This aims to ensure the creation of new jobs and to find an appropriate way to address the EU's social needs. The European Commission's recommendations set out in the Progress Report for Croatia in 2010 highlight the need for greater involvement of Croatian scientists in European scientific and research programmes, the promotion of private sector investment in scientific and research activities and the improvement of the system of science funding in terms of emphasising competitiveness and rounding up scientific projects and scientific potentials, as discussed by the minister in the example of 2000 projects. In the strategic context, I will only give some examples of European cooperation in education, training is said to have reached some level of higher education in the EU by 2020, at least 40% of people between 30 and 35 years of age. In 2011, the EU average was 35%, and we had 25%. Lifelong learning in higher education in the Republic of Croatia compared to EU countries has been extremely poorly developed so that less than 3% of persons in the working population from 25 to 65 years of life have been included in lifelong education programmes while the average in EU Member States is 10%, and in some countries 30%. I have listed only some statistical indicators, but all others are negative for the Republic of Croatia and are easily available. Therefore, the aim and purpose of this law is to create further preconditions for building a public-based scientific and innovation system, the needs of society as a whole, with a particular emphasis on increasing the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia at international level and adapting to the commitments arising from recent EU membership, bearing in mind examples of good practice in the Union. That is why I especially regret the unnecessarily unnecessary resistance to the adoption of this law because we were able to make our first reading a long time ago and make all remarks, as we are about to now, until the second reading. I will list only some of the solutions provided for in this proposal that have already been highlighted in previous discussions, but have not been repeated. This law lays down the competence and structure of the new National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, which will assume in the new structure some of the current obligations of the National Council for Science, the National Council for Higher Education, the National Innovation System Council and the Technological Council, but also demonstrates greater responsibility for directing and monitoring higher education, scientific activities and innovation systems in the Republic of Croatia. The Council reduces the scope of tasks which are administrative in nature, and increases the role of adopting and directing public policies in higher education, science and technology, which guarantees stronger integration and coordination of public policy measures for the development of science as a public good as part of the strategy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme. Furthermore, the law prescribes a clear selection procedure for scientific and scientific teaching, scientific and teaching jobs, with a view to verifying the fulfilment of minimum national criteria and additional criteria for job institutions. The law abolishes the obligation to advance in workplaces and enables scientists and university teachers to choose their own career development and according to the needs of institutions. And that is the practice of most EU countries. The law amends the definition of extraordinary studies with the aim of clear indication that students of extraordinary studies have other significant burdens besides studies and those for which the Higher School must provide the necessary conditions and method of implementation. The start of the academic year is defined in order to regulate the question of students' rights to grants for student standards at those universities they organise before the start of October. In today's system, as the minister pointed out, there is no power to lay down regulations governing the student standard, which means there is no power to regulate the rights of the student standard. In view of the need to monitor the fiscal effects of the law and to plan budgetary expenditures, the Minister of Science, Education and Sports shall be empowered to adopt rules governing these rights. In addition, two types of postgraduate and three types of professional studies are clearly defined. In particular, joint studies of higher universities are being developed in the Republic of Croatia as well as in the Union. The proposed law defines the conditions for conducting such studies, clearly defines under which conditions and how joint studies are established and conducted and defined to be credited under defined quality assurance rules. Furthermore, the conditions for conducting different studies and different programmes as well as professional training programmes are also defined which are currently not clearly defined. It is also clearer to define the obligation of higher universities to keep records and databases and to define the management of national databases, to clarify the prescribed minimum data on students of vocational training students and high-school staff. In order to increase the quality and availability of data and records, and to ensure national data analysis, the minister will prescribe content, method and method of data delivery from the database of higher schools and ministries. The higher schools in the Republic of Croatia in the past period have in most cases started to issue additional papers in a study which are an important way to increase the transparency of final studies as well as to increase the employment opportunities of our students. However, high schools have established different practices for the issue of the same and, therefore, the law, this proposal, provides for the conditions under which they are to be issued. The law strengthens both the role and the authority of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education in order to raise professional responsibility and the reputation of the Croatian scientific community in the country and abroad. In line with all of the above, and in particular with the aim of increasing the links between education and the economy with the ultimate objective of creating the added value of the SDP club, it will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37599	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Vice-President Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37600	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, assistant ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the HDZ Club will not support the bill, but I want to say very clearly that I am convinced that all of us that the system of science and education works better. He's working now and it would be completely incorrect to say as Mr. Minister said that he's not working, that he's destroyed, that he's prone to unethical behavior and everything else that's been said but he's really got a lot of problems and we all expect the new law to guarantee the solutions to these numerous problems that the system is torturing at this time. However, we have before us a proposal to amend the law, not a new law, but a proposal to amend an existing one that offers no solution to precisely those problems that objectively exist in the field of science and higher education, but rather opens up new issues and, in the form of a proposal, causes numerous conflicts, dilemmas and recommendations, especially in the scientific and academic community that you have all heard about through the media, but it has not touched at all, nor has it observed that, contrary to all well-meaning suggestions, it continues to force its missed proposal. Three main problems related to this proposal are amendments to the law, and I will limit myself to them in my presentation, although it contains a number of other unfortunate and bad solutions that will most likely be discussed during the debate. The first is the one that has been unsuspectingly spoken in the last, about a year or so or so. when the first version appeared in April last year, on a number of occasions and from a number of participants from the academic community to prominent representatives of the ruling coalition, and this is a requirement to first adopt a strategy for developing science and education in Croatia, and only after that. In fact, the strategy is a necessary and crucial prerequisite for the adoption of a legal framework in the field of science and education, and therefore the latter is more surprised by the persistent and all these demands, a completely insensitive position of the minister who continues to push forward in the parliamentary procedure of the draft amendments to the law even though we do not have a strategy yet. This wonders the team more that the strategy is drawn up, Professor Budak advises the prime minister of this same government whose name now comes to us a proposal to amend the law led by a group that makes up the strategy and they have announced on several occasions that the strategy will be completed at the latest in June, so for some 2 or let's say for a maximum of 3 months. Since it is not yet known what this strategy will look like, regardless of what it may be and whether we or anyone else agree with it or not, the question is what will happen if the strategy sets out some other directions for developing a system of science and education than does this bill. Each strategy, namely, determines the direction of development and defines a vision which is then pursued with the help of new laws. So, the law is just a tool that needs a vision to be realized, if there is no vision and we all know that it is not there at this moment because there is no strategy yet, the question is what will then and how will be achieved by this law, what is the use of the tool if we don't know what we want to do with it. It is quite clear that it will happen again, as unfortunately in the last year and several days already have happened several times, that hastily, recklessly and unnecessarily imposed by the majority in the Assembly, members who must vote on the party track, even when they are aware that this is bad, have passed a law that must be changed in a few months. I want to make it clear that we are all aware of this today, every time we do this to our citizens who have chosen us all, we are creating an impression of a non-serious state, I hope that this is not aware of the support, I am talking about a random state and a non-serious Parliament who has been hasty about such laws and then changing them again quickly, today someone has mentioned them as socks. In fact, it is quite certain that if this or any other bill is passed before the strategy and this time it will have to happen, and that this law will have to change significantly by the end of the year in the autumn or at the latest, or that new law will have to be passed. Why, then, the violent push of this law instead of waiting literally for a few months, what are the reasons for this unreasonable approach, to whom does it benefit? Those who, for whom the law is passed and to whom it applies, are certainly not, because they have already made their differences publicly and clearly in the process unrelated to their party membership several times. We cannot and must not ignore the problem that this proposal has as much as 71 articles, and the basic law has only 121. Therefore, we should not even debate and let alone vote this proposal because if more than 1/3 of the articles are amended, a new law must be passed, not just amendments to the existing one. In view of all this above, the HDZ Club proposes to stop the proposal to amend this law, not to go further into the process, or into another reading than to wait for all these few months, so that, based on the strategy that we will then have, we will go into the making of a whole new law that will allow for the achievement of what the strategy draws out. We are earnestly hoping that this proposal, which has nothing to do with politics, will be accepted by the SDP, led by the majority, and that it will not only this time because it has most hands in the Assembly by force vote this proposal. Since I have already said that I will look back on just some of the most important issues that are problematic in this bill, I cannot mention some of them: one thing is that even though Croatia becomes an EU member in just over 2 months, this bill does not mention the adjustment of our system of science and education to that EU. Is this because we are fully and fully in line with the EU in these areas? I don't think so, but if it is, the question is, why doesn't the proposal say anything about it? In the proposal to amend the law, practically nothing is said about ways of funding science and education, and that is exactly what is one of the most far-reaching problems. In fact, both science and education have their own price, it is significant and it cannot be clouded by any flossules. At this time, the funding of science has been drastically and disastrously reduced, and the fatal consequences of this and all the extent of the damage to the system of science today will only be seen in a few years. However, it is not only an absolute amount of money that is far too small, but also how and how this money is allocated. Although the talks that have been held for nearly 3 years between the academic community and the Ministry of Science have resulted in an agreement that the real financing solution should be a single programme contract based on the so-called so-called. And that's what's on the trail of good world practice, and that's not mentioned in this proposal. The full programming contracts mean that they provide total funding for a programme carried out by the institution, which includes everything from money for wages, material costs to funds for scientific research which the institution then has autonomously but clearly knows what it is responsible for and what I should say to deliver for those funds. In real life today, under the terms of high-school software contracts, some package solutions are offered to finance one pseudo-programme contract for recruits, while others are quasied by a student contract, etc. which has absolutely nothing to do with the real programming contracts and which does not give high schools or security or the possibility of strategic planning for development and advancement. In doing so, they are offered drastically less resources for scientific research, asking at the same time just absurdly to increase the quality of scientific publications and higher education. So for significantly less money, a significantly higher quality is required. So where is it and where can you get it in this world? We cannot be taken away from the impression that such a haste to make amendments to the law can be partly explained by the desire to control all kinds of systems of science and education by party staffing from the ministry, so this proposal should be made possible. For example, according to this proposal, the dean of the university and high school will be elected, resolved by the administrative council, reads the minister because the administrative council appoints most members to the government on the proposal of the minister, so politics, not as teachers, co-workers and students so far. Similarly, this proposal will happen to the newly established National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. The current National Science Council and the National Higher Education Council will be abolished in order to select members of the new council according to the criteria of course of political similarity. We have witnessed such tactics many times in this House in the last year and a few days, but it is a pity that this will happen in a system of science and education that should indeed be above the direct influence of politics. On that this proposal leaves some more than important issues left for sublegal acts which, without control and public influence, will then be brought by the minister personally on the fact that during the night, the obligation of scientists to advance in scientific active knowledge is not precisely understood, but they can spend the entire working life in a single title, based on reports that the scientist will write about himself and then accepts the scientific council of the institution and many other unfortunate solutions in this proposal have already spoken to others and will certainly have much to say. I would conclude that especially today when we are entering the EU if we are to create a better legal framework for science and higher education than the existing one, we must first know what we want. Do we want to be a country based on our own mind, knowledge and creativity, or will our development be based solely on service activities and the exploitation of natural resources and the use of smart and crazy haur from abroad? If we want it first and I really hope that we all want it then this amendment to the law is certainly not the way to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37601	Thank you. We have three replicas. My colleague Tomic picked up first. Here you go. No, first the replicas and then the minister gets his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37602	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I've written a lot down, colleague Reiner, I'd say that techniques can be solved by these changes and that there's no need to wait for a strategy. What is proposed by this bill will simply be included in every strategy. These aren't some dramatic changes. I listened to you very carefully, and I asked for at least one explanation which is exactly wrong in the law, and you didn't say anything. You're politicizing the party trail, party staffing, it was only known to you. And the new law, so what? So what if we have to do it on the basis of a strategy that will be passed once it's passed a new law. And you're talking about the disagreements of many, which are many? I have spoken to many who agree with this proposal. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37603	Thank you. We have an answer, Vice President Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37604	Thank you very much. First of all, I'd like to say, so I could agree with you that these are a couple of technical changes that solve some urgent matters that need to be bridged to a new law. But that's not it. It is a mixture of some semi-technical changes and other intrusions important to the system of education and science. And there's the problem right now. If these were just technical changes, we would probably support it, and probably all of us would agree on that. So it's really getting to the bottom of it. And it seems to me that I've made it very clear why I don't think it's a good thing that we're doing over and over again changing the laws that then prove unhappy and then we have to find some new solutions a few months later. This certainly is not a good way to go here or in other laws or in other spheres. Why would we do that if it wasn't necessary? I don't see any reason and in any case I can't agree with you that you will definitely be in a strategy just like this. I'm not sure about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37605	Thank you, too. Next replica Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37606	Thank you. Comrade Reiner, you said there was no strategy, the strategy is being developed as a tool to implement the strategy is here before us. Not exactly a strategy, but my people, so we don't have any strategies in this country. We don't even have a country development strategy, we don't even have a list of state property. I don't think we know exactly what we're doing. With laws like this, of course, it's a danger because it concerns areas where results are not seen immediately. These interventions ad hoc so every three months in the education system results are seen after ten years. Obviously, the promoters think so it won't be our problem, someone else will solve the problem. He will, but it'll be very difficult for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37607	Thank you. We have an answer, Vice President Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37608	Thank you very much. Well, I actually completely agree with my esteemed colleague Vujanic. Of course that is the problem of all of us sitting here. I would say at this time is the problem of the Croatian state that unfortunately this way and this is how we make laws that we change for a moment, and here if it doesn't remember a little bit of physics for me, it all reminds me of Brown's movement, so one imperfect leap from one point to another that isn't some clear vector but literally jumping from one thing to another and it's not good. And I deeply believe that we would all be responsible for what we are, and I hope that we were happy that in various areas first we have a systematic strategy that we can discuss, we can agree, disagree, more or less agree, etc. and, on the basis of it, then as an instrument of realisation of these strategies, we adopt laws. Now we're passing laws, and even this one without any vision, without a strategy, and then of course we don't need to be surprised that then two months, four months or six months later we tell her one time, so we changed our minds a little bit, we ran a little bit, so we're going to change that again and so on. Thank you very much. Thank you. And the last replica of Walter Boluncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37610	Well, if it wasn't for Brown's movement, the world would be dead. Oh, here, Professor, I agree with you in this first part because really these amendments to the law are good at times to attack science and higher education and beyond some measure. We have high quality education, science to what extent it can do with... monetary amounts but let's not forget that a lot of these quality sciences come from using Tempus funds and such because a lot of our scientists use international funds. Secondly, only perhaps what you have said about EU adaptation, the law states that it wants to meet Europe 20-20 from the 4 points, and I think that science and higher education have long since become part of the EU through its co-operation has been through projects such as Tempus, Ceepus, etc. and, in addition, there is in principle no pattern for higher education throughout Europe. Each country has one of its own approaches, which in the end may well be because this Europe, apart from itself, feeds these scientists both North America and many other countries. But I say I would agree with that part that says that we want to change because of organisations, but let's not make science and education our education is something that isn't worth it because it's still on some relative scale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37611	Thank you. We have a response from Vice President Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37612	So to start with this last one, that's exactly what I was saying, so I think we have good science and education, especially for the funds that we invest in. However, you mentioned EU funds, let's be very clear, no country in Europe is based on its science on EU funds. It builds its science on own investment of its own resources, and then if it is engrossed and if some of the best manage to gain and funds from EU funds it is excellent. But none of the countries, literally none of them based their science on some of the mythic funds of Europe that will come, and in the country can be given misery for it. And that's true, and we can't escape from that truth. So that's what it's all about. And the points you spoke of in the EU, that they are not in legal articles, they are in preambles. The preamble tells of beautiful desires and all but the points of the legal article are not about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37613	Thank you, too. And now I give my word to Minister Jovanovic in front of the promoter. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37614	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. According to the esteemed Commissioner Reiner, no European country is based on the development of science on European funds. But Mr. Reiner, no European country has been so systematically robbed by the ruling party in your term for the past eight years. The science you released to the Croatian state is the consequence of your 8 years. You're talking about not changing the law at all. Do you know how many times you've changed this law? Do you know? Seven times. Mr. Schuker here throws out what Ivan Djikic said, the more important are the village lollies. This is the HDZ's relationship to Croatian science Mr. Reiner says the prominent representatives of the coalition oppose such a proposal. [[I'm asking you colleagues.]] You heard the SDP club, the IDS club supported this bill. It is said that the main man who makes the strategy, and the main man for this strategy is Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, who runs the National Authority for Strategy Making, and only the operational part is done by Professor. A fool who supports amendments and additions to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. I repeat, a man directly involved in the operational development of the strategy agrees that these changes are necessary to adapt the system of science and higher education to exactly what Mr Reiner was talking about, and that is to join the EU. Says Mr. Reiner, the party's power to pass the law and force is pushing the missed proposal. My colleagues, distinguished MPs and MPs, am I in the Croatian Assembly? Do I represent the law that the Croatian Government has adopted in the procedure in accordance with the Constitution? Are we having a democratic debate at the Croatian Parliament? Is that pushing by force? I don't think so. It seems to me that we are working in accordance with the Constitution and the democratic society where the Ministry of Science, educated and sports developed a proposal adopted unanimously by the Croatian government, referred to a parliamentary procedure where the Assembly Committee on Education, science, supported by most of the votes this law and is now in front of you. It's a democracy, it's a democratic procedure. And everything Mr. Rainer was talking about is usually politicizing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37615	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37616	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Minister, let it be said that this is politicizing, and what he is saying on behalf of democracy or calling for democracy is purely politicizing. It would have been polite, it would have been polite, in the light of this bill, that all, all, the objections, the proposals, the suggestions for its creation, or which have been adopted in the public debate so far, have been presented. You didn't bring any of that. It's simply because the academic community is against it, simply because the public is against it. And therefore, do not call this democratically imposed, this is a force imposed by the parliamentary majority. So much for democracy. And then I'll say in my discussion about an intellectual... and the political gibberish that follows from your simple sentences when you bring them together from one page to the other. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What a normal student on the exam wouldn't have gone through if he wrote something like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37617	We have the next line, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37618	So watch when you have no arguments then speak as Minister Jovanovic says. 2003 budget for education and science 8 billion, 2011. 12.5 billion. That's the best thing she can say. And the other thing about Honorable Professor Djikic, I've never mentioned him anywhere. But some media that apparently your party bulletin tried to place something and you here are it, I have to say, Mr. Minister, I don't know what word to use except that you lied because you said I said it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I never said that. And I don't even understand why you need this rhetoric. If you claim to have such support for the law, then defend the law, which is the law. You can't defend something that just doesn't stand. Well, you were the head of a committee in the Parliament, and I was the minister of reporting to you, and you were thrilled with that report. That's what you said in public. That's what you said in public. Mr. Jovanovic, all insubordinations as well as good things have a name and name. And what do you call it with a name and a last name? There's no collective guilt. For years, your party, one part of the Croatian people, has imposed collective guilt. So now you can't impose collective guilt on HDZ, you can't, you just can't. There are people who have done something, but I'm saying, it's gonna be your food chain. It'll be very interesting to see and hear things. But I repeat, you are the Minister of Education and your rhetoric should be in line with which ministry it is. Another thing, one of your respects for academics Rainer at least when it comes to science should be at some level. This primitiveism that you and your Prime Minister place on the political scene is below all levels. This has never happened in Croatia. This kind of primitiveism, such a dictionary and such primitiveism is simply something that is unmarked in Croatia. And you can say whatever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37619	Thank you. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to leave our qualifications for something else. ... Allow me, you didn't get the word. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I must warn you, let us not use such qualifications as are not suitable for this assembly pay phone. Next replica Iron Happy Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37620	Well, it never occurred to me that I would correct my minister of science, but it's true, Minister, that you said that the parliamentary board had made a decision to uphold the law. The truth is equally so that a few days later, the parliamentary committee called a thematic session at which 28 people spoke about the law. The truth is that the law in this form of explicity has supported only nine people including you. And the truth is, I think I'm sorry, as far as I can remember, Professor Budak didn't support these laws, but he had reserves against something and he actually supported something. So, if we talk about who supported what, please talk about what happened and not just what suits us because we need to stick to the rules and when it doesn't suit us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37621	Thank you. And the last replica of Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37622	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I certainly won't, and I don't think I'm answering the minister the way he's trying to speak to the parliamentary representative and the vice president of the Parliament. This is part of the area of first respect for the Parliament, on the one hand, on the other hand, I dare say even domestic education. However, I must say something that is very clear. Mr. Secretary says he doesn't know who's against this law. So he received a series of memos from the university, from different bodies including a debate mentioned by the esteemed representative Flego in which opposition to such a bill was clearly expressed. So I don't know what he's talking about. I mean, I know very well, when we don't have the arguments then some, I emphasize some of them trying to make up for it, compensate for the arrogance, qualifications and expressions that are certainly not suitable for this House of Commons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37623	Thank you, too. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of HNS Representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37624	I would like to thank you, sir, the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, respected ministers and ministerial assistants. It's a very awkward moment to discuss, especially when you represent a prominent member of the coalition. What I would say at first is that I, well, my career in the Parliament isn't that long, but I've been in politics for many years now, I can hardly remember a lot of laws that have taken away this much energy already in the preparatory phase, so before they even came to the debate in the first reading. And on the other hand, when all these are objecting, the proposals and the comments are summed up then it is actually a very small number of proposals and remarks in which it seems to me that, in fact, more or less all those who have had suggestions and remarks agree on several key points and I will mention some of them today on behalf of the HNS Club. What is not disputed, of course, is that Croatia needs one or more of these laws, but what is a question that can be discussed and should be discussed whether we need to change and supplement or really need a whole new law, and in this sense Ministers do not be angry, but I also think that all those who think that adopting a strategy might be a real step in relation to the order that we are going to. You are, of course, always mentioning that these changes were made on the basis of some other static documents and it stands, it is probably true but it is not disputed that the whole story would exist in a completely different way and circled it and gave it additional meaning, so the more that this law actually enters into some fundamental changes. One of them is the abolition of the obligation to advance in jobs, which is at least a problematic concept for us. With such a provision, we risk getting into a stagnation situation at the very least, if not falling into a space that faces enormous problems anyway, and over these problems, we all agree more or less. We also find it a little problematic to remove the re-election by the model that it has so far been working on, a model for which candidates in some way decide about themselves may not be the best solution in the context of the content of the progress of the overall system and the achievement of excellence that our objectives have been proclaimed. I would like to point out that the irregularities you spoke of in the opening statement probably stand, but it does not seem to me a happy solution to replace a system that may be bad with one that is potentially even worse. The problem that has also arisen in this bill, which I would like to say a few words about, is the question of the art field in the higher education system. On the one hand, we must ensure the equality of the artistic and scientific field, but on the other hand we must respect both the specificities and the specific question of artistic research. Since we have been very specific and clearly written, everyone has seen them and you have seen them and we have seen them, I will not elaborate them much, but I would like to stress that the club of the HNS supports and agrees with the remarks of the art academy, especially in the part where those on the one hand concern status, and on the other hand the need for understanding and specificity of artistic education and then related deregulation in certain segments. And one more thing I would like to mention, although it is not directly the subject of this bill and it is not directly in your jurisdiction, but it is part of the process that is happening and this unfortunate rule on conditions of choice in scientific knowledge. So there are a number of areas that fall into social and humanistic sciences that, by nature of the subject or by the way of research, cannot pass the same type of evaluation as some other scientific areas that are quantifiable to objective categories. The problem is that it is most often about the field of science that deals with ropes or narrow national topics, so we risk experiencing the disappearance of science in our own language in the worst case scenario. The reason I mentioned this case of regulations is that it also shows how important and good it would be to get into this business by bringing in the first strategy, and then laws based on them. Because if it is part of the strategy to destroy social and humanistic sciences in Croatian, then we can also adopt such regulations. The thing this law should contain, and it does not contain, is the question of funding science. This is still a problem that we face and sink and return to every day in every respect. And to be clear, what's true and what's true is that we need the law, what's also standing is that we need a strategy. What stands and I don't want him to stay in the shadow of everything else I've said, that this law contains many provisions that are useful and that need to be passed. A colleague, Tomic, said in his replica that techniques can be solved by this law. I can, truth be, the problem is not with these technical changes provisions, the problem is with the provisions concerning fundamental changes in the system. So, dear Mr. Minister with his colleague and colleague and other colleagues, I ask you to consider between the two readings these fundamental remarks that have had really diverse circles in this public debate that have been going on for almost a year. And the fact that this debate was extremely long, extremely substantial and that almost all the participants agreed on some basic principles should in some ways be an important and strong message in the process of passing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37625	Thank you, too. We've got two lines reported. Damir Tomic answered first. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37626	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Maybe I'd formulate this replica as a question for my colleague Coleman when he was talking about stagnation and falling due to optional progress. I'd say the past teaches us, whenever we forced the quantity, we lost to quality. This proposal goes to fix exactly the quality. And I would say that I really don't understand why this optional advancement which is a good example for successful European countries is now suddenly so much debate. Also, I would refer to the strategy and the law once again, and I fully agree with my colleague Reiner and you. It would be good if we had a strategy, but so did fellow Vuljanic, so we don't have a strategy for anything for decades. That doesn't mean we don't have to do anything, so it's good to go into these changes, academic years are coming, quality changes are, and I'm sure the minister will respect some of the suggestions that come from this debate. It's a shame to mention now that the strategy will be in a month or two. These techniques were proposed by the minister a year ago, unfortunately only now do we have the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37627	Thank you. And the last replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37628	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I'm happy about is that the Honorable Agent Coleman and I, but we've usually agreed on a lot of things, so here's what we agree on, and I think he's a good example of choosing this very questionable and discreet rule, an unfortunate rule that's certainly missed just as a result that if you go in hierarchical order, it's logical that you first have a vision, that you have a strategy, then some law comes out of it, and then the rules come out of that law. Of course, everything goes the other way around. First we get a rulebook, now we're gonna pass the law, and then we're gonna get a strategy. Well, of course things have to look exactly the other way around than they do under normal circumstances. And while I can't be kidnapped by something, even though I'm not actually responding to the esteemed MP Coleman, I absolutely don't understand how this law will show me how to improve quality. Where's that article? What is this article that clearly says that it is quality? He's gone, he's gone. Of course, we'd all like to improve quality and science and education, but that's not there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37629	Thank you, too. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37630	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This law has a strange property to show up and disappear, and then it shows up again. I went through the proposal again yesterday, so I found out that I had three suggestions, so until I realized which was the last one and what was going on in it, I spent a little time. But the law finally came up. It's not like a new one. The law appeared, appeared as changes and additions. In order for the law to be new without the idea of former ministers of Primorac and Fuchs who are passing through this law would be nice if, at the beginning of the law, somewhere in the opening notes or in the first article, it were written that high education is free for Croatian citizens, that it was human rights and that science is public good. You can't see that in the law, unfortunately. The role of higher education in every society, and especially in the transition as ours, we have not passed that transition, we will enter the EU in a few months, but we still have a lot to do to become a organised society. The role of science and higher education should be the role of the engine, the one that drives things, which gives new ideas, which is the creator and so on. In order for the engine to work, it needs gas, diesel, but what it's working on. This engine does not get enough fuel in any sense, in terms of funding, or in terms of social support, so that it can function normally. The first condition of course normal functioning is to know what to want. So we call it a science strategy, we call it developmental direction, whatever we want to call it, but we know what we want, what we actually think of that system in 20 years. Because if we're going to talk today about what the system is today and what it's going to be like next school year, then we missed the subject in advance, we missed the topic in advance. The repercussion of our talks today will be seen in 10 years, and I probably said that a little bit, maybe 20. The repercusions of the Shuvar reform were seen at the beginning of Croatia, then the Shuvar generation came and did something that was not to be done, which Shuvar taught them. Are we doing the same thing? Are we doing the same thing? Let's ask ourselves that. There's no strategy. The word strategy is mentioned in a few places here. For example, in the introduction on page 5, there is an imbalance, the number of students per area of 60% of the total number of students and in social sciences which, of course, does not suit us. We should be in technical sciences and that, but do we know exactly what technical sciences our students should be about? How do we know that? What does the Croatian state development strategy look like? Is that information? Is that engineering? Is that electrical engineering? Is that a building? What's that? We don't know. We don't know because we don't have those strategies. We're going to have a very hard time building a strategy, making a rational strategy for the development of science if we don't have a country development strategy. On page nine, the introduction also mentions a strategy in terms of funding, defining the amount of funding for higher education and science from the state budget. At least somewhere in front of one table, it says that there was a significant increase in investment between 2003 and the eleventh, and then look at the figures and see that this growth was not so significant. That growth was a few percent no more than that. On page 14, the introductory part also speaks of a strategy in the sense that a greater strategic role will be given to the National Council for these three parts. Now that probably means something, too, but I'm not quite sure what. The minister said that the strategy was actually made in the government's programme and that there was a clear view of the strategic policy. I don't know how much that fits into reality because one of the strategic partners said, strategic, these coalition partners, said the government program died. Now, if he died and we're referring to him, it's a little hard for you to do. Well, instead of such specifics, the text is full of flossules and eclastant lies, such as the one I just said through a significant growth in investment. There was no significant growth in investment. Science and higher education are growing from year to year. If it has grown a few percent, and it has grown a few percent, then look at how much the net has developed. So the net that increased 30% of the assets increased by 5.6%. So what is it? Is this a significant growth in investment in science and higher education? On page 4 at the bottom of this introductory section, it is said that exceptional successes have been achieved in ensuring the quality of science and higher education in the Republic of Croatia and therefore Croatia is at the leading place in the region and in the quality of national regulations. Maybe regulations, not executions. For example, the last day of the term of office of Minister Primorac in Split was founded something for which he gave a license called the Media University. Of course, the university has no s, nor have any conditions about it been met. He could possibly get a postcard for high school and he got such a postcard. It tried to work, failed, and then the owner of the Media University sold it to a local self-government unit in the town of Koprivnica, which was founded again through a preamble through the company's daughter, founded by Koprivnica Media University. It's still called the university, and that study permit in Koprivnica has been confirmed by this ministry. The moment the university was founded, there was a doctor of science. Now they've made combinations with the City Hall in Varazdin, so they've got a few more people, but it's still an absolutely illegal business where the state's money is being pulled out and it's going to come out in some pockets. I don't know exactly which and whose, but in some pockets. Because according to the criteria, with the criteria of higher education in the Republic of Croatia, it has nothing to do with it. So, talk about quality assurance, and you have such cases and confirm them by coming to the institution's opening, so that's almost malignancy I can say. The compromises in this bill work where they shouldn't be. Amalgamat is still supported between professional and university studies, completely unnecessary. When professional studies were established I was on that team that set up professional studies, they were made with another goal and they were otherwise conceived. The law at that time laid down a provision that universities would be able to conduct professional studies for 10 years. Since it's been over, it's been, like, '97, it's been over 10 years, and this law says that extremely professional studies can stay at the university. Why? Because there's money in them. Because there's cash in them and cash money is just as interesting for universities. No ministry has been able to resist it, but this is how the compromise said come in exceptional cases. Exceptional cases are all cases when someone shows up, right? It's still teacher selection procedures, so I'm free to say nakaradian. The nakaradic collection of points without academic courage to evaluate quality. I am convinced that there are scientists in both Croatia and the world who could be without a problem regular professors with two papers when it comes to quality with two scientific or three scientific papers. However, our system prefers Procurst's bed you choose to make that number that is prescribed, there are points, and what inside is what magazine reviewers have found out what work I would not want to get involved in. I remember sometimes the election there in the '80s when three respected teachers chose the fourth. And they explained their opinion with their own credibility and stood behind it. It may not be objective, but it's fair. This system of stopping, i.e. not looking for progress in teaching calls, is the consequence of the same logic. This curve, or pyramid of teachers, has been paved and the top extends from the bottom. There are more teachers than docents. Of course, it's not a normal situation. People made progress because they had to make progress because otherwise they'd get fired, so almost everyone, everyone who was close got the status of professor. Of course this way, I try to make scientific advances, or advances from scientific... It is not mandatory, that this pyramid will not inevitably change. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe formally and will, maybe we'll get more than one percent, people will stay in the lower calling, counting, I can be there for what to suffer if I don't need it, but that pyramid should have changed by the criticism of my colleagues. That criticism is for these and those reasons, you can call them corrupt, you can call them political no matter what, that criticism is pretty much gone. I'm afraid this formal move will make no difference. Young people find it difficult to get into the system, competition is great, and even harder to stay in the system. Now, the ways of their progress and the choices are tightened, the ways are sharpened, the conditions are tightened, the deadlines are cut and the money is less. I don't know how anyone imagines that with less money they can get more music, that kind of party doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. So if there's less money and there's less money, there's less for that basic part about the scientific cold drive where these young people should actually work. The money has an estate, the deadline is a year or two, and it's expected that these people will go through, between that Scylla and the haribda, and become top scientists, it doesn't work that way, it doesn't work that way. In addition to this magical word of execution that we all know at every opportunity not yet exactly what is behind it, we must be aware that there are also a good number of people in the system who are average and who need the system to surface to the top. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37631	Thank you. We have one replica, Walter Boluncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37632	I'd look back on this part of the election rule that's kind of under the surface getting through this debate even though it's not some topic. To advance the criteria must be and they must exist, whether they are numerical or others, and in this way we come up with one logical problem, on the one hand, a lot of objections to the new regulation which said that the magazine in which they are published must be better quality, and on the other hand, it is said that the works must be assessed whether they are quality or not. That you're going to miss a world-class magazine is a very small opportunity, it's like going to play football for Barcelona and you're not in Europe. Therefore, the quality of the magazine, and it cannot guarantee the quality of each work, but it is 90% safe and therefore the rule goes to the quality of the magazine where the double bind review is and which then gives us. As for young people, of course it's as hard for them as it is for everyone in the country, but even after being accepted as a scientific recruit, I think it's time for six years now, so you have 3 years of doctorate, you have 6 years to achieve this and it's in the voltage of a creative force of 24 to 30 years. And it's definitely not much, it's a lot because these young people have to stick to teaching, they have to run after the professor because the second thing is, if they were just doing scientific work and project and then there was a competition where they're best received, it would be a whole different story. Progress is not something that exists in every country, in the most developed countries such as America, etc. We can't compete with them even though there's a huge number of our scientists there and they're responsible for their development, there's such progress that there's no obligation, there's no.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37633	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37634	Thank you. Well, I'm glad you looked back on this, our scientists abroad, and their progress. We're kind of living in a schizophrenic situation, two diametrically opposite things we're saying, we're talking about how our system is nothing, how it's chaos and how it's falling apart, and how we have a huge brain drain. So what kind of brains are these that people out there buy and pay them well, and what kind of systems did they come out of? It's not such a nakarad system, it's a nakarad political system that applies the wrong criteria where it shouldn't apply them. And the higher education system is one of the last, let's say the grave word, the bassion that didn't get to break politics in the biggest part of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37635	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU Ljiljana Cvetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37636	Honorable President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The principle of the proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education is mainly the formal nature of most proposed amendments, which means that they will not affect the improvement of the system. In light of the proposal, the applicant calls for coordination with the strategic framework for European cooperation in education and education by 2020. The comparable strategy for the Republic of Croatia, however, does not exist, so the question is what we are then comparing with the strategic framework for European cooperation in education and education. Amendments or adoption of a new law for this area would be justified only after the development of that strategy. The European document sets out the achievement of lifelong learning as one of the main objectives. The Republic of Croatia, however, has not regulated the area legally, and it is of particular importance for the functioning of the higher school system. It remains unclear the status of post-graduate specialist university studies in view of the degrees of lifelong education according to the European reference framework for lifelong education. Postgraduate specialist studies are very important in life education and others are in interspace and there is no solution for them. In the explanation, the advantage of Croatian science and higher education highlights funding, which is in total contradiction with the level of the share of these activities in the state budget compared to the EU member states. Changes in the procedure of progress in the titles can cause extreme damage to far-reaching consequences and is partly unrealistic. For example, Article 16 provides that the expert commission for selection in scientific reference must have at least one member outside the scientific organisation in which an employee is elected. First, it should be specified exactly what is meant by the concept of scientific organisation. Is that a university or a college? This is important because for some scientific branches it will not be possible to respect this provision of a higher calling feature because there are too few relevant experts in Croatia or the promoter implies that in these procedures we will again move to English and have members of the commission outside Croatia, which would mean additional cost. The possibility of non-progress can result in stagnation of both scientific research and teaching activities to prevent the competitiveness of our educational and research institutions. However, it is possible for the ministry to propose this solution knowingly that young scientists have very limited financial opportunities which are a prerequisite for participating in conferences, research stays at relevant institutions, which is such a prerequisite for progress in calling. Scientists and high school teachers would report their work every four years. The relationship between the four-year reporting cycle and the five-year cycle of elections in calling or progress is unclear. If the proposer proposes reports as a promotion filter, which will happen in case the report is negatively assessed and the correction period is two years. Does this mean that the choice is delayed and what happens to the workplace in that case? With regard to the evaluation of the work of the opinion, we are aware that assistants should not evaluate the mentor because in the event of a poor assessment it is possible that the mentor is blocking the continued work of the assistant. On the other hand, as an assistant is in a position to decide in a mentor if the mentor has stricter criteria because he wants a quality assistant, it will not be enabled in this way. On the contrary, the average quality of assistants will be obtained, which is not in line with the policy of excellence that universities usually promote. In addition, we think that the procedure is excessive because most doctoral studies conduct a study of students as usual in a regular study. We do not consider the solution provided for in Article 26 that the applicant gives up the legal regulation of the representation of students in the colleges and art academy councils. We believe that the law must determine the minimum number of students and allow colleges and academias to determine a greater number of their statutes. The proposal uses the term integrated pre-graduate and graduate studies without clarifying the concept. One of the fundamental settings of the Bologna reform is the degree of study, undergraduate, graduate and postgraduate. The concept of an integrated study in some Member States of the European Union is used in only two cases. First for studies in which the practice is integrated into the educational programme and second for studies that are combined to several universities but in a joint integrated educational programme. The unification of pre-graduate and graduate studies should be an exception if the applicant considers this unification to be an integrated study, we propose that this term be replaced by a concept of a consective study in order to avoid difficulties by recognising such studies in the European High Education Area. We also suggest that the name professional specialist is the title above Article 168 of the amendment and the professional specialists are said to refer to specialization within a profession rather than to expertise or intricacies. So they're experts, but they're experts in a particular profession, and that's what defines their academic name. For the sake of clarity of expression, we suggest that Article 5 in a new entry of the word from several scientific fields instead of at the end of the sentence be placed behind the words of top scientists because otherwise it can be interpreted that a single top scientist has world-renowned scientific papers from several scientific fields. Since this is the first reading of this bill I hope these remarks are very good intentions and I hope you will consider them until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37637	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37638	Here is Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. I'd like to join some of the thesis of some of the predecessors involved in this law. We also think at the HDSSB club that these amendments and amendments to the law are quite extensive and that they are not only a procedure in some minor matters but that they are quite touching the very essence of this law. We therefore agree with the clubs that have spoken about that it might be a happier solution if this law had gone as a new bill, and then perhaps the coverage would have been even wider, and of course such a single bill was based if it were in any way possible on a strategy which was also previously discussed. In this context, we think, as some of the predecessors in front of some clubs who have said that perhaps the happiest solution is that this proposal is not these amendments and the addition of the law to withdraw them, and that after the adoption of the national strategy is seen by a new bill. After a public debate, after consensus, it is our impression that nothing is burning in this case. So these changes directly and in this law do not directly affect the economic situation or the standard of citizens, but on the other hand they may in some way affect some tradition that this society has and the tradition that this science has. Therefore, there is no reason for some quick transformation to bring about solutions that may be difficult to implement or which will be stuck and cause some revolt, disdain and problems in the scientific community. It was also a matter of copying, a matter of corruption at the university that we see as an example and corrupt behavior are happening. They've happened before. Now I'm going to say my opinion about how we're not competitive enough. I don't think we're even a competitive society or that it's a tradition of Croatian society, that we are, however, quite an egalitarian society that draws that tradition from socialism from which this country came, and on the other hand, from that Christian worldview that prevails in the country. In this combination, we as a competitive society have neither worked nor in the future will we function or in another way express ourselves, when it comes to copying and I am the one who won't hide the paper from someone who cheats. Maybe that's not the luckiest thing, maybe it'd be better if you were the person who hid someone and wouldn't let them copy but I'm not, and I'm going to exclude myself for the right to believe that the good part of Croatian students isn't like that today. I'm saying maybe it's not happy and it's not good, and it might be good for someone who prescribes that paper and doesn't give it a copy, but I don't think we're that kind of people, and that we're not going to become such people soon. When it comes to the problem of funding science, of course the fundamental problem that Croatian science still faces is the problem of finance. As culture meets, as it meets and enlightens how sports meet, so science encounters the problem of funding. Here is Table 5 and your proposal on page 9 usually says Table 4 but it is actually Table 5, it is misspelled in this material, about the expenditure of the public and private sector for research and development, although it is evident that these expenditures are slowly slipping back into GDP, and after we have reached a 1% share in GDP, we are again participating in the GDP for the allocation of science, and that is one trend that has been present in these last ten years and is visible from that table, and it is also widely known that we are also the separations for science at the bottom of the European countries and the EU 27. And of course, that fact has an unwitting impact and creates a problem of science, that it is a problem for scientific projects. On the other hand, we don't have a strong private sector, we don't have a strong economy, we don't have a connection or it's relatively small between the scientific community and some strong companies, some strong companies, which in the Republic of Croatia could count on fingers, we don't have a tradition of some public private foundations that will finance science or culture in some millions, and we don't even need to have the illusion that this will happen in the future. Therefore, the development of Croatian science will continue to rely on sources of public funding. We would therefore certainly support it if it were possible in the years to come that this share of separation from the state budget for development science, for education is increased and that the ratio of some other items that are in the state budget is greater than usual to try a little bit in the next budgets and try to balance that relationship at least a little. For example, Articles 90 to 97 of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 are amended in a thorough manner. Article 102 of the previous law is completely amended not to list them now. So it's changing, it's changing a lot. And once again, it means a happier solution, and that is why the HDSB club will not support it, but we will join those clubs that have also expressed their view that it would be better to withdraw this legislative proposal, and after the adoption of the strategy to go with the whole new bill, the new law, and not such extensive amendments in the 71st article. One more thing, the minister was in the introduction talking about certain deviations, certain events that negatively marked some universities, some universities, arrests, bribes, etc. We firmly believe that the Law of Science and like this now, he can't be a rigdigan, he can't be repressive, he can't be overstretched. The Science Act cannot address the issues of bribery and corruption. For bribery and corruption are the occurrences of illegal behaviour to which certain other laws do not need to have much to do with the Law of Science. So we call for proactive laws, laws that will encourage scientific activity in science, open that space, which will be liberal if we can use the word, which will be open, which will not be exaggerated. And the question of bribery, corruption, nepotism and all forms of illegal behavior is why there are other laws, which should not be dealt with, and there should not be any illusions about the fact that the Science Act will solve this problem. Only competition, quality competition, healthy human relations, healthy relations within the system can solve this and no state interventionism in the field of science will help the scientific community act better and make a greater contribution to society than it does today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37639	Thank you very much. We have a replica of Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37640	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You mentioned to your colleague Đurovic that the law will not change the economic situation, and that is because there is no cooperation between science and the economy, that is, there is little co-operation. And we also know that only knowledge can bring a quality product. See how many people come out of the study for industrial design in architecture, young people come out but they have no business. They're on the Bureau or they're dealing with a variety of different, different, different professions. On the other hand, we have information that we know that we are huge potential for wood industry, we know how much we import furniture we don't produce. Or any other production. Look at the information that the halls that worked, the sports halls, we have data that 90% of the parquets from the imports and there's industry, good floor coverings, these are absurds, actually, that's our reality. Earlier in the opening part, the minister himself said that the study programmes are not related to the labour market. And now I'm going to say one more thing and there's no mention here of what the role of local self-government is in these things. So local self-government should, in cooperation with employment agencies, look at what deficits are and just scholarship only such deficits and give credit to others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37641	Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37642	Oh, thank you. So when I was talking about state interventionism, that state interventionism that I would welcome as by the ministry, it's certainly a rigorous, firm attitude about enrolment quotas to certain colleges because, of course, every college has a desire and a need to maintain as much an entry quota regardless of whether the profession is presently or the trend is such that some profession is currently deficiting or surplus. And it is certain that the state around the registration quotas of those of course who are going towards the burden of the ministry and those financed must lead a very firm policy and in fact encourage the deficit quotas or those professions that will be able to find a job on the labour market. Because we know now that there are several professions, calls, professions with completed colleges of people who have tens of thousands, and there's no way they'll find a job in years to come. On the other hand, when it comes to the relationship between the university, i.e. the university and production and these problems that you have mentioned and, for example, the wood industry, I am sure that the biggest investment currently in the Republic of the Croatian side, which is the opening, for example, of the IKEA in the way it is agreed, will only further boost the quenching of the mass of jobs in the Croatian furniture industry. Of course, neither you nor I agreed on this job, but when such transactions are contracted and no previous production is provided, for example, for a part of Croatian producers, then the consequences come as they are. And thirdly, as far as scholarships are concerned, local communities no longer have money, most communities, not even for their basic needs, let alone for scholarships, most of these scholarships are so small they don't really mean anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37643	Thank you very much. The word was requested by Minister Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37644	Thank you, Madam Vice President, so since it was the last club, just a few sentences of consideration. So I thank all of you for your contribution, for the concrete suggestions especially of those who came from respected representatives of Boljunčić, Tomislav then Mr. Coleman, Mrs. Cvetovic, most of these proposals are already appreciated and in preparation for the second reading ready, part concerning some different ways of evaluation in... Progress, through committee, through the art education that has been said, so I believe you will be satisfied with the solutions that we will prepare between the two readings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I certainly want to say at the end of this part of the debate, we remain with the fact that progress will no longer be mandatory. This, at the same time, gives us the opportunity to make the promotion criteria even more stringent. So far, this has not been the case, and the criteria have just been so lowered that progress would be made possible. We have an analysis of the European Union that shows that compulsory progress is extremely rare. So those of us who have compulsory advancements are far less scientifically than those who don't have it. I think that's enough argument to stop the story that the abolition of compulsory progress will seriously endanger science in Croatia. What I particularly want to quote again, so it was said that thanks to our scientific production, if we compare it to the number of inhabitants and investment in science is actually very successful, but it is a story that has no basis, no basis, and does not mean that Croatian science is at the level at which it would like to be. So I will repeat, we have just said, although the number of scientific papers in the relevant databases is approximately 0.8 papers per scientist per year, which can be considered relatively satisfactory and proportionate with investments in research and development. So we say that we don't invest much and given how much we invest, but only 3% of Croatian scientists publish papers in the 10 most quoted scientific publications in the world and we want to change that. We want that percentage to be three times higher, then we'll be able to say that we have successful and high-quality scientists. I don't think anyone has been able to convince me that these amendments and additions to the law have anything to do with the adoption of a new strategy. These amendments and additions to the law are necessary for several reasons that I have stated at the very beginning and that I will repeat. Croatia is in a difficult economic situation. The system of science and higher education is not sufficiently funded, it is irrationally organised, it is unadjusted to social needs, it is poorly regulated and poorly managed, it is not productive enough, it is not competitive enough, it is not innovative enough, it is insufficiently encouraged. He is not responsible enough for the general public, young scientists and the Croatian future. He is shaken by corruption, irregularities and unethical actions of some of his stakeholders who rarely suffer consequences, and in public it undermines the reputation and credibility of the entire system. These are reasons why we want to make the situation in the system of higher education and science better by amending and supplementing the laws we propose. The strategy we're bringing, and I'm going to repeat to you distinguished MPs and MPs, that's my idea, my suggestion. At the beginning of my ministerial term, I said we'd do it that way. I compared the system of education, education and science with the house in which the roof is sneezing and the foundations are down and clearly that this house won't last long, that it should build a new one, but as long as we build a new house it still lasts. We need to fix the roof and solidify the foundations, and that's what we're doing. With these amendments and additions to the law, we repair the roof and solidify the foundations. The new strategy we are working on will be adopted by the end of the year, but new legal solutions will not be in place safely before 2016. Therefore, these changes are necessary, and a new strategy with brand new action plans will be valid for a second term, which will take some time to pass a quality debate without politicising and demagogy because I repeat constantly, education and science do not have a party omen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37645	Thank you very much. The Republic has Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37646	Your Honor, Madam Vice President. Well, the minister now just repeated all those negative qualifications in the system of science and education he said and in his opening speech not actually giving any real argument, and if the argument is that the system is not well funded, I agree immediately with him. I think that we can all agree on that and, in particular, those who work in the academic community in the education system, but I in this proposal and ultimately none of my colleagues who have discussed it sees from this proposal a single element which will improve this funding, and it really needs to be improved. And this country, if it wants to and if it claims that it wants to be a state of knowledge, simply has to invest more money in the system of science and education that doesn't seem to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37647	Replication response, Minister Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37648	... So I have to correct the esteemed Vice-President of the Parliament since the last budget rebalancing is the only system, the only sector that has received more money is the system of science with 40 million kuna more to focus on financing the Croatian Foundation for Science and Long-term Programme Fund of Science, which clearly shows that the Croatian Government takes care of science and whenever there is money available, these funds will be channelled into the system of science. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37649	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is a colleague of Lidija Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37650	I thank the esteemed vice president. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'm glad we finally have a procedure to discuss this amendment and the addition of the law. There have always been great debates and opposing attitudes on this subject, both in this composition of the Ministry and us here in the Parliament, and in those previous ones. We'll probably agree, most of us, if not all, about having a scientific and educational system that's not effective enough. Recently in a daily list described as a small army... general. In a number of discussions, the consensus was reached on the fact that after the adoption of a strategy that will already be put to rest at the end of June and the action plan, it will go with the new law. So I'm not saying that he wants to imply differently that the new law will go after the strategy. These are the necessary amendments and additions to the law. So here's how I can assume that this new bill is probably going to make that consensus go away, but let's hope it's a broad debate and it won't happen. What the controversy is still about is the proposal to abolish the obligation to advance, so I would briefly refer to this segment only. Article 41 paragraph 5 of the current law states, I quote, "If an employee does not submit a application or is not elected for failure to meet the conditions for re-election, a procedure for the regular personal conditioned termination of the employment contract will be launched without the obligation to offer another suitable job." I may be wrong and we need to talk about it, but I think that's exactly the source of the problem, because because of the fear of losing a job, various means have been used to avoid being fired, and at the expense of quality. And of course the employees wouldn't end up on the street. We have had a human resources structure in which, already mentioned, there is a significantly greater proportion of scientists in the highest scientific calling of a scientific advisor, i.e. a regular professor than the average of other countries if we look at the experiences of other countries, such as Austria, Switzerland, Norway, France, Great Britain, Sweden, Slovenia and many others that I do not now see that there is no such obligation in most EU countries. It doesn't exist in the United States or Japan, and they don't have such bad scientists. On the other hand, there are a large number of excellent scientific and teaching staff whose quality of teaching will certainly not be reduced unless they are forced to advance. Take, for example, I'm going to take things closer to me like basic mathematics or statistics in my first year of college. There are no major changes in proving scientific truth, and there are many hours of teaching with a large number of students. Learning can be top-notch, but perhaps without motivation and time to publish scientific papers. The question arises whether we should throw these employees on the street. Personally, I do not think that they should be given the opportunity to make their own choices in the dynamics of progress, because scientific teaching staff, especially those who have a large number of students and hours of teaching cannot pair scientists working at institutes in research work. I think that doesn't make them bad performers and that students aren't cut off in the quality of that class. What I see as a potential danger and opening up the possibility of negative selection, so perhaps excellent scientists for some perhaps personal reasons could be stopped in progress by the institution's leadership. I suggest we try to find a solution for this potential danger. Analyzing the arguments for and against the obligation to advance, I have long questioned which solution is better and I am more prone to removing the obligations. As is the case in most other countries, and what is the proposal for these amendments and additions. Personally, I consider this proposal to be good, acceptable, and most changes and additions are necessary for the functioning of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37651	Thank you very much. Next in the debate of colleague Walter Boluncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37652	Here's another good day. As it was said earlier for this law that he was removed a year ago, returned, and that he caused quite a debate I think that any law even now existing to be put into debate or an existing rules on elections in calling to be put into debate to cause the same amount of dispute and different points of view as this one here. So, I think there is, although I am a member of this academic community and on it a small burden of responsibility which has been discussed since the previous ministries. Fuchs' laws were supposed to be the academic community that was supposed to come up with its proposal and its strategy, not just waiting for the ministry's proposals that it should in some way contaminate or agree with them. As far as the strategy is concerned, it should be completed by 1.7, but I also think it should be completed first, the second should go through the debate, in the meantime it is summer. Afterwards, they need to agree, and the question is whether such technical matters will enter into strategic decisions or not. If it is waiting, then the strategy I am sure is that several years after that a new law that would go into detailed changes could not lead to reading and adoption in the Assembly. It's because, therefore, the amount of money in science as well as elsewhere is small, which is why more work needs to be done on the organization of this science and in fact simply said, so it's one... And the vicious circle that the economy doesn't see in science is some incentive, so there's no separation for science. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That same science doesn't have enough money to maybe commit itself to some projects that would help the economy, and so it goes in circles at a very low level. That is why I think that there should be quality separation and that, with more significant projects, with greater quality of scientific and economic projects, it could affect the economy and then give more money. The mandatory progress mentioned has already been said several times in many countries that this progress as such does not exist. At this point we have a situation that needs to progress or once re-election after five years. In a number of cases, scientists themselves seek after three years. It's just that the motivation of scientists working in the system is quite large to advance. By eliminating mandatory progress, I believe that this motivation will not be reduced. The more I think we're going to be realistic with the greater difference between the scientific titles that put up that motivation, the greater it will be, but there will be one separation of more quality scientists than those that the predecessor said could be very good at teaching. I hold mathematics in the first year, and I know what 500 students mean, but which, therefore, I can do well in teaching, which is also at some rate that is good for them, and also because of the various objective circumstances, will be in that system and will be able to make a significant contribution. I think it's a very important thing. Then we won't have projects that will be 6000 euros, so 50 thousand kuna per year, but it will be 200, 300,000 and that main researcher will be able to devote a lot more time to his scientific recruit, and this recruit won't be able to say that he's six years too little to accomplish, but in what I would say is the period up to 35 years when scientists can make the most that he will make the most significant contribution. I also believe that this post-doc and mandatory competitions will increase the mobility of scientists. One of the worst things is that science, like I said, is passed down from knee to knee and that basically there's a spell and separation from the outside world. Of course, science that deals with Croatian language, art and therefore Croatian cultural heritage will remain in Croatian, but let's be realistic English today, what Latin was in the Middle Ages, and one who does not know English and therefore is not dedicated only to these objects around the cultural heritage of his people in science will have a very, very difficult way. I think science and the role of the university can be seen. Our University of Pula can primarily thank the local community, so Istria and Pula, for their encouragement. What was said to be a small scholarship is that the city of Pula separates about a million kunas to 57 thousand inhabitants. It's a significant scholarship number. And you can see the need for development and new directions and that scientists, that young people are educated. Once again, I think that this change of law although there are changes in many articles, it qualitatively changes technical things, I think it creates good grounds for future money that goes into science even though the small one is better used and that, in some ways, through these larger criteria for elections in titles, what we are constantly talking about centres of excellence can be established, and this is about funding. That, in this case, by programming money for scientific research, more focus where the results are and where it is dedicated to scientific research and more important. Here we go again, I think this is a good step. So there's a whole series of regulations that should affect and be written to make it work. I still, when there were several speakers, have to refer to the rules on election calls. He's one step ahead, and I think in most cases the observations that have been made are wrong, because it's one material that's potentially subject to change for the better, but the criteria in anything we have to have. The only thing that matters is that the criteria are such that after three to six years, everyone progresses to regular professors without published papers. I hope that there will also be one agreement in the academic community and that the criteria, which is the established criterion in science, excellence and international recognition, will come to a full goal. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37653	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First colleague Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37654	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A fellow esteemed representative has brought two things into contact. On the one hand, scientific quality and scientific productivity, and on the other hand, you mentioned the infatuation, that is, the separation of science or the education sector from the real world, from reality. I think we can imagine both situations. That we have both scientific quality and productivity, and that it has nothing to do with the real sector and vice versa. Therefore, this only suggests something else, that this law cannot resolve the relationship between the relevantness of the scientific and educational system for overall social development. This is therefore addressed by a strategy on the one hand of scientific development and education systems, and on the other hand by the inclusion of the strategy in the overall social development. Therefore, this should not be confused with what we are bringing into contact and what you have said in some way excellence and evaluation towards international some sort of inclusion in these international databases because, it is not necessary but it is possible to prove that it would also be actually financing other people's development if we do not know how to apply our own knowledge, or use it for our own development. On that side, it is just one more proof that this reverse logic that we are going from the law today, or from the amendments to the law, and only then, according to a strategy, is it simply not acceptable and not acceptable. On the other hand, you have something that wasn't about. Namely, what can be shown Americans have a study all about the impact of the education system on the national security of the United States. Because they show that this education system is not a function of protection and national security.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37655	Thank you very much. Replication response, Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37656	So when I was talking about the bewitched part of it, I was thinking about the fact that you have an assistant who's been with a professor for six years, and that there's a little bit of not all that in one narrow circle of people. In that direction, I mean it should never happen. Science in itself requires a basic preamble that is the mobility of scientists whether from the beginning etc. So as far as the strategy is concerned, we of course need it, but we now have an educational cycle. So I think half the math and physics is now in America or elsewhere. You have a situation that poor Croatia aliminates rich America with quality scientists. They should get opportunities to advance in this country, to return, to be outside, etc. Therefore, once again, we need a strategy, but I think these changes to the laws that are now being done are not the ones that must wait for strategic projects. It would only delay the change of law for a few more years. Among other things, a year ago, I was the only one for the law to go back to the 6th month of 2012 in the first reading. The situation in science is complicated enough, it's not black, it's not even white, it's gray and it's largely gray, but I'm saying that some changes should start working. In that sense, I say, with these remarks that have been heard, I believe that in this change of law there is material that can show its usefulness and better for the development of science.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37657	There is also a colleague Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37658	Thank you. You were talking about the fact that everyone here actually mentioned, that science and higher education are poorly funded both in absolute terms and in participation in the budget, and that is, of course, the truth that doesn't need to be proved, the figures are there and compared to Europe. Now, the emphasis is placed on quality and enforceability, quality and enforcement should be financed well so that on that wave we can all profit together. Let's not use euphemisms, if we're going to finance the quality and execution within the same money perfectly, then we're not going to finance someone else at all or finance it very little. So we have this cake that we cut and now are we going to cut the cake differently or are we going to try to make it a bigger cake? It's a different solution somehow closer to me if I know and you all know from practice that there's a need for that so-called. Cold drive. So that there are people who are going to work on average, on average, to make someone great, so not everyone can be great. So it takes them to survive too so that this excellent part can advance and could pull us all forward and as a society, both as a state, both as an economy and as you will. For this, this should not be discussed today, this is a debate that should be conducted when the next budget rebalancing comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37659	The answer to the replica of Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37660	Well, you're right, that you shouldn't be talking about it today, you should have talked about it three, four, five or six years ago to make that happen. And my debate, perhaps I misrepresented myself or was not clear enough, was just that we needed a bigger cookie. And what I'm saying is, we're in a vicious circle right now, handle 22, you don't have enough quality knowledge to recognize the economy, so she doesn't give money, you don't have money, so you don't produce quality knowledge, and so until you come up with 0=0. Therefore, money should be directed towards the quality that will find an opening from that circle, which will rise, where the economy will see benefits. I'm very interested in our telecoms who raise a lot of money compared to others, how many doctors of science from FER, with mathematics, with economics... Take it and do it to them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In America, Atter and everyone else took them as much as you want. Sometimes Končar came to the fourth year of FER, 50 of the best received scholarships to master's and computer production was good for us. What do they do now, the FER's can't find a job like they said in three days now, if it ends on Friday. Today is a situation where no one can find a job, no one can find it, but the economy has to recognize it, and in order to recognize these people... I think the quality must be seen, which will then be used in the economy and which will see usefulness and direct more money and raised the entire system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're talking here, I was right at the beginning saying maybe it was unclear, we have science but we have a higher education. And I think that someone who in science may not have gotten to the highest level, as a professor can be very good and that he is certainly necessary because of all students 1, 2% will just choose scientific, further their development, and others need to be quality of education that they have the conditions for lifelong education and that they can work quality. Here is my suggestion, that a quality attempt be made to increase this cake, means adding more flour or brown flour to make it healthier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37661	We're continuing the debate. It's my colleague Martina Banić's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37662	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The system of science and higher education in the Republic of Croatia, has a problem both financially and from the aspect of human capacities. The brain drain, especially of these young scientists, the doctor of science in the voltage of power will be growing especially this and next year. For more than 500 young science doctors from 2006 and 9 scientific recruits in the system, work contracts expire this year and next year. The vast majority of them will not be able to continue their employment at the scientific institutions in Croatia. The announced plan of the resolution ministry is to remain only 20% of those listed in the system, I welcome that the ministry has a plan for at least 20% in the system, but this still means that over 400 doctors of science will be unemployed within two years and are likely to go abroad. Unfortunately, we do not have a developed research and development sector within the Croatian industry that could employ these capacities. And the outdated system of doctoral studies does not provide young doctors with science competences such as teamwork, writing and project management, management skills and the like. To make them competitive on the labour market. If we turn this into figures on average, the state has invested about a million and a half kunas in the salaries and education of a young scientist, which means that over 600 million kunas of Croatian investment will probably cross the border over the next two years and that these people will develop foreign societies and economies with their knowledge. Young scientists should be involved in the system of state and public administration. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education comes too late, does not respond to the challenges and problems of young scientists in the system and thus encourages further brain drains. When we add to this the fact that investment in research and development in the Republic of Croatia falls, it means 0.75% of GDP for 2011, and the minister himself said that the EU average is 2,03% of GDP with the goal of reaching 3%. And when we look at the 2013 budget as projections and for 2014 and 2015, the share of the resolution ministry in GDP falls from year to year. We come to a devastating fact that we are far from achieving a knowledge and innovation society. We are increasingly moving away from the Lisbon Treaty and the objective of creating the world's most concrete economy by investing in research and development of 3% of GDP. The lack of a science and research strategy is a major deterrent to the development of the system, but changes in the law should go towards improving the system of work. So what's wrong with this bill? The law does not solve the problem of 500 young doctors of science who lose their jobs. The draft amendments to the law do not show at all the intensity and ability to address the issue of 500 doctors of science who remain unemployed, there is no vision of what to do with this human potential, and how to keep them in the state. It limits the progress of the best in the system. It is clear that the policy of automatic progress in scientific and scientific learning is not sustainable from the population of budgeting. But the austerity measures are more than visible in law enforcement, and the best in science should not be spared as constantly repeated by the President of the European Commission Barroso. Restricting to a minimum of five years in a single calling or three years for which double quality conditions are fatal to the constitutional ones of the best youth. If young scientists can be regular teachers at the most prestigious universities, why do we make it impossible for young people in the Republic of Croatia? also do not monitor the reform of doctoral studies. Although doctoral studies are under the authority of the university and, as such protected autonomy, the law does not give a vision towards reform. The key question is for whom and with which competences we educate a doctor of science. That remains irresponsible. In Croatia, the number of doctoral studies has doubled since 2005 and many are questionable qualities and with an unwarranted amount of tuition. Our young doctors leave the university well educated in basic knowledge but too old, the average doctorate at the University of Zagreb is 36 years compared to colleagues from abroad and without the knowledge of generic skills that enable them to be more employable on the labour market. In Switzerland, let's say nine to ten physics doctors end up in the industry and we have this ratio of one to ten. However, I would like to highlight some of the things that are good in the bill. I have already said that the proposals come late, that they do not meet the challenges of young scientists in the system but that several government and ministry initiatives should be commended. I primarily think about assessing the work of both the young scientist, the assistant and his mentor and the removal of the simple cancellation of the labor contract in the event of a negative mentor's report. Article 23 and Article 49 provide that the contract is to be abolished after two negative reports, reducing the possibility of abuse of the institute. In addition, differences in the obligations of assistants, young scientists at institutes and universities where assistants at universities have considerable teaching burdens within the hospital and they need a longer period of time for doctoring from assistants at the institutes who do only scientific research, Article 22(1) defines that assistants at the institutes have a maximum of five years to make a doctorate while those at universities remain for 6 years due to teaching burdens. What else should be added to the bill? Weak relationships between science and economy. Although the interpretation of the bill strongly mentions the networking of science and the economy of transfer technologies and the establishment of start-up and speed of companies does not make any changes at all. In order to achieve the intended objectives, it is necessary to add to the amendments a legal framework to strengthen the cooperation of science and the economy, including a system of state incentives and the transfer of so-called ‘. nour house to open and run start up and speed of a company that can be developed under a legal act or regulation. Mobility between science and industry and the introduction of so-called economic doctorate, post doctorate where the state industry could share the cost of young scientists and they could be employed either in industry or in scientific institutions. My colleagues and colleagues, I conclude, although I personally want this law to work as well as I want the system of education and science to function well. However, the proposed amendments to the law do not improve the functioning of the system. Basic changes in the system are necessary. It is necessary to do everything to keep young people in the Republic of Croatia and not to send 400 doctors of science abroad. The proposed amendments to the laws will not make science a major driver in the development of the Croatian economy, nor will science be more quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37663	Thank you very much. And now it's my colleague Ivanka Roksandić's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37664	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with his associates. Here this afternoon we are discussing this law, a law that we have been waiting for somewhere since July last year, a law that has caused a series of disputes in the academic public and after withdrawing from the procedure in July 2012, I really expected to get a completely amended law, namely a new law, because I realized then when the board passed and all and returned to the ministry that the ministry and the minister had listened to the objections of the greatest work of the public and above all to the university community, institutes, universities, all the universities that joined this debate and that we would get a new bill today. Obviously, the minister himself said that we had lost unnecessary time, perhaps, but as I say we were expecting a new law and this proposal, which is now only a little, slightly altered from the one that was withdrawn in July was and wrapped up by some veil of secrets, his proposal is not even if you remember going out in public. It wasn't until he entered the parliamentary procedure that something heard about him. If we recall this big debate about so-called. Fuch's laws, so those three laws that had to be regulated this area and which I now believe were rightly withdrawn because the academic community opposed them most and in which it was said that some things were not well arranged for the academic community. We have now received a united law but when you read and compare these three proposed laws with this law you will see that some articles and some of the solutions in those three laws have been torn and pushed into this law in which as much as 71 articles have been amended, so I really don't see why we didn't wait for the new law. What do we get with this proposal? There is almost nothing in those three key elements in which we are all discussing and this is primarily about the way of funding, the way of managing and the principle of responsibility both for the individual and the institution. A large part of the scientific community opposes the minister and you know it yourself and after the thematic session discussed by colleagues and after the whole public debate to end the obligation of scientists to advance. As science today must be the most dynamic activity and should be the most dynamic activity, progress is indeed the present need. With unscheduledness, it is also related to staying in the chosen calling. The law allows a scientist to spend his entire working life in a single calling, which remains primarily based on a report written by a scientist about himself and his work, which accepts the scientific council. The institution of re-election or procedure in which the selected expert commission values the work of the candidate and assesses whether it can or should not remain in the system. The abolition of the obligation to advance in scientific and teaching calls without giving the authority of decision-making, governance and accountability instruments through the proposed programming contracts proposed by former Minister Fuchs as well, we have now introduced some kind of programme contracts but obviously that these financial resources that are now provided and even with this rebalancing will not do much, nothing much, and will certainly not increase the number of scientific employees. The current proposed way of funding will not even encourage excellence as some have calculated it will receive about five thousand kuna per scientist, five thousand kuna for all costs of scientific work, so both for those material costs and for wages and travel expenses will not talk about it. It's a calculation that people in the scientific community calculated, you can laugh, you can wave Mr. Zelenika's head but the people who do that have calculated that that's how it is and that won't be enough. The other thing you've improved from yours I'm going to tell the Serbian law that we see that difference is that you've accepted that scientists at 65 can, under certain conditions, stay in their jobs. But according to academic Rainer, there's a whole series of shops and procedures that have to go through to extend their working status in a year. While all these committees, while the parent committees, while all this is over, I think that that year from the age of 65, I can see it running after 65 years, I'm reading it out of this, it's going to be that year, and then maybe it's going to be 67 when they get permission to work on it. And one more thing, another newspaper is that perhaps the good formation of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development is now a unique law that has a president and 16 members and is the highest expert body. In his opening statement, the minister himself said that he has a very significant function, because he would primarily propose members of the Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education. However, I have been thinking about avoiding the politicisation of members in order to be good now is a proposal to appoint the Croatian National Council on the government's proposal. It might be good if the Croatian Parliament has appointed a whole series of such councils and a whole series of different committees that are very important for the Croatian Parliament to make a public call to select members of the council. Maybe you'd avoid thinking about politicizing councils. I know that again most in the Parliament will choose those who agree, just as the government will suggest, but perhaps it would be one I will say a more transparent mission. And here in the end I just want to tell you that still from that public debate from that thematic session of ours, which was excellently drawn up by one conclusion, and he was if we could all remember that we participated in that thematic session that first we had to make a strategy and we agreed and then the new law. And that's why this haste right now is here right now to let this law go into procedure again and he'll pass today's first reading, soon the second reading, and will probably be adopted by most, I don't think that haste was necessary. And now a technical and practical proposal if you can accept it. I would only like to draw attention to Article 43 of the proposed law, which is well-intentioned on the regulation of Article 90 of the High Education Evidence. In the last term, the Committee on Science and Higher Education held one thematic debate concerning status and the problems of disabled students. Then we concluded, I would like to remind my colleagues that there is not one single body of coordination that should be a ministry in one place, taking care of these students. In fact, there is never any data that they said at the university and individual colleges that there are no data in one place how many students there are persons with disabilities in the system and what their problems are. And very often the universities give one piece of information to students about the possibility of studying. One of the people in charge of their studies was in the ministry. One of your associates in the former assembly of the ministry. I don't know if there is now. But my suggestion is that in this point 6 where the ministry records are kept from the higher education database one of these 9 is the point of the second entry, it might not be a good idea to put these students under those other records, to open one point, here's my proposal in the first reading where it would be summed up. Just to complete this proposal, I'm sorry, where there might be one summary of the records of persons with disabilities studying. [[Thank you very much.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37665	The Republic has a colleague, Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37666	So when we mention the thematic session I think it's incorrect to say that all universities set an example, as far as I remember the letter of the rector from Pula he was... The law rector from Rijeka, the predictor from Zadar and Split, so there were a lot of scientists who were in favour of these remarks, that these changes could go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact that everyone agreed they needed a strategy but didn't all agree, may have been a smaller number that they didn't, that they should wait with the strategy law. As far as Fuchs' laws were concerned they had some things, however they had one basic problem that was present to all, is that the head of the university was elected from the council where most of the ministry determined. And that was the basic problem. It's the civilization achievement of the century in Europe where this law wanted to move it. That was the point that, I mean, the entire academic community at the beginning was something unacceptable. So they simply wanted universities to stand under the role of the ministry. And let us not forget that the rectorial assembly and most rectors have even agreed with Fuchs' laws to be denied later by individual members of their Senate. So I'm not saying that those laws were bad at all but there was one fundamental fact which is, that I'm not saying it's not a thousand years from the first university but a very long area of independence and university with a provision where the head of the component is specifically rectors elected from the council, whether it's such a university or council where the ratio of 6-6 was, and yet another member of the old rector could be placed, there was no mandated restriction of the rector. It's something that's unacceptable to the academic community. Although it would be worth considering that maybe what it used to be, we had a dean or rector who ran the science section, it was a re-election but we also had a director who managed the financial part, whether it might be again one institution especially in those colleges that may not have enough scientific staff in the area of finance, perhaps need again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37667	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37668	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Boluncic, I also said that a broad debate developed that the strategy should be, that most of them That the debate had developed, in fact, one conclusion that a strategy had to be made first of all. [[I may have misunderstood, I apologize.]] As far as Fuchs' laws were concerned, I said that I was personal and that they agreed that they had retired, that some solutions were not good and that former Minister Fuchs himself said that the academic community had not agreed with some things and said I had withdrawn the laws. The laws need to be processed. And now we've got the opposite, from those laws they've drawn some solutions, and I'm going to say inserted into this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37669	Replica Marija Vukbratović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37670	Thank you. My colleague Roksandić, if I understand you correctly, said that the universities were not satisfied with this law because their remarks were not accepted. This is not true because I come from a high school and I am in constant contact with a council of universities and higher schools that make up 42 institutions and 38 thousand students, and they are in principle, so this council of the university is in principle in line with this law because all their remarks are respected. There are a few other small things they would like to fit into the law, however, they believe and calculate that through the strategy it will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37671	Reply to the replica Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37672	Thank you, colleague Vukbratovic, so you yourself responded to your own replica, what I said, saying first one of the findings, so you tried to explain it. I didn't say that all the high schools and you yourself said that they were in principle consensual, so there were major objections and we went back to the strategy that you confirmed. The fact that what you say and say about your University of Koprivnica from the Križevci, I apologize, from the Koprivnica and Križevci County, from the Križevci you brought the opinion of your university. But we also have a whole series of universities that have made concrete remarks. And what difference does that make between your opinion and my opinion? Because you said your university gave positive, it was generally consensual, council of universities. In principle. In principle.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37673	Lydia Bagaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37674	Thank you. Here I had to answer because from your debate, a colleague would conclude that this proposal prevents progress which is not exactly simple. Because scientists are still allowed to advance, only they are not forced to do so. Or they decide for themselves the dynamics of their advancement. And they're motivated by their own decision on this world of science. Second, they're motivated by higher incomes. Progress is allowed even prematurely but only when they are excellent. And I would also look back, as I have already mentioned and pointed out in the debate, I repeat, after the strategy comes a new law, these are amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37675	Reply to the replica Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37676	Well, I'll start again from the end. The word strategy again. After the strategy comes a new law. We had in public debates a promise and a claim made by people who are operationally as the minister said, operationally leading the commission of Professor Budak, who said the strategy in the first half of this year would be over. They wouldn't lose anything if they waited for that new law, nothing, absolutely nothing. And as for people to decide for themselves, so normally to decide, but the fact is that everyone in the public has said that this way of non-progression is not going to say one ugly word of coercion, obligations, non-progress obligations primarily imposed solely because of financial means and that's the fact. That's a fact. I wonder if the next new law will make it so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37677	And Damir Tomic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37678	Madam Vice President. So I'd say, don't be offended, but you're taking a bit of a flat rate when you say the academic community disagreed. Now we've heard a few examples here when the academic community agreed to whatever the academic community was. I'd also say when you're talking about the people who calculated it, I'd like to hear what kind of people they are. We've heard what they've calculated, and I'd be glad to hear what and who. But that's less important. All the time we've been talking about strategy and that these are actually amendments and additions to the law. In his opening statement, the minister also said that the former government has changed this law seven times, without a strategy. And what is the problem if the strategy is in the 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th month and the Ministry prepares a new law in accordance with that strategy. Well, we can't wait. You said that what would happen, so maybe a lot would happen. Maybe it's important to change things so that we can enter into the new academic year with a strategy at least the Ministry has, and obviously it has a strategy. That's obvious. And in the end, as far as progress goes, we can talk here for hours whether it should be lifted or not. Personally, I think, and the SDP counseling club thinks there should be no obligation. I am not saying that abolishing this model, which Minister Jovanovic presented, is the best solution. Maybe we can, not go to European examples, maybe we can have our own Croatian model. But I assure you, and I'm convinced, and I'm going to use your flat rate now, that the academic community thinks that compulsory advancement doesn't contribute to the quality of scientific work, necessarily. You know, as soon as something's mandatory, it only creates problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37679	Replication response, Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37680	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, buddy, I'm not mad that you think I'm a flat-rater because I said that part of the academic community, and what... Yeah, yeah, I said, we won't, it's not all about it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The point is that you and I have different thoughts and that's allowed. In democracy, this House is allowed. We expressed our views and gave our reflections on this law, on how to adopt and what should happen in science and higher education. We haven't said everything yet, we certainly haven't said everything, nor will we within our club agree as I assume you within your club agree on all the solutions, but that's why my thinking isn't casual. And those 5,000 kunas for programme funding were calculated by experts who did so, so they were in science funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37681	And we continue the debate. A colleague, Miroslav Tudjman, was still reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37682	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Unfortunately, we also have one practice in this law that when we propose a law, or we don't have an analysis of the situation, or we don't have any insight into what kind of public debate was, which were proposals, objections, and then we're now witnessing what would be avoided if we had an insight into the fact that we're bringing in the flat-rate reviews, the flat-rate attitudes, something that simply doesn't give us one uncertainty that we can't objectively discuss all these proposals that are contained in the law. On the other hand, if this was introduced here, there could be no illogicalness, i.e. some flat-rate evaluations, as is the case in this introduction, and on the one hand, it argues that, on average, 11% of the scientific publications are published in 10% of the most quoted publications, and in Croatia it is only 3%. Or it is claimed that only 300 Croatian publications per million inhabitants were made in international co-authorship, while in Iceland and Scandinavian countries it ranged from 1250 to over 2300 publications per million inhabitants. Or that the citation of documents during this period was 5.9% for Croatia, and in Finland it was 17.64 or other words three times higher. But these data are not related to what is given on the next page where Finland is said to invest five times more in science than Croatia. So, now, if I don't elaborate because of the time all this data, then there's a conclusion about non-productivity and all those ugly words and findings of the wrong, negative findings that the Minister of Science here made about Croatian science and Croatian scientists. By the way, as far as these flat-rates are concerned, I was getting about 30,000 a year for my project, and the seven of us were working on it. So, and then college takes 20%, so that's even less than that. And with that productivity money we had, somebody tell me who could be more productive. Why does it matter? Because it is all about the percentage of the separation that Croatia can or wants to single out for science. He's 0.75% now. According to the data we have here that number will be, that number will remain the same over the next two years, or the next one will be slightly larger, and in 2015 it will be the same as this year. In other words, nothing will change about science or science. That's why we need a strategy, to know whether these allocations will remain the same in terms of gross social, GDP or not, and depending on that, we can do other things. The question is, there's something we haven't even started talking about here. We're talking about universities or universities as science and teaching institutions. The scientific dimension of the university is getting smaller. In America, you have about 4,000 or how many universities, and all 80 have a status of excellence. So they're dealing with research, science and not this. I can't even advocate it right now, because it's just not open and we can't talk about it at all. On the other hand, you have one, unfortunately, colleague Banic seemed to have the wrong data. I put together with my colleague, Roksandić, which is the fate of these two and a half thousand scientific recruits, thinking also that this contract with them lasts until 2016. The government replied that the contract will continue until the next two years, 2013 and 2014, that they will all remain jobless, i.e. they will not be engaged. Moreover, you have one finding that I think a normal man should be ashamed of. It is said that this uncontrollable funding of scientific recruits increases the budget by 26%, and that this threatens Croatia's financial and monetary system. So, you have two and a half thousand of the most educated people who end up or end up doctoring in the next period, you have no answer and no plan where you're going with them and what's going to happen to them. According to these calculations, by some minimum, it is not true, namely what counterpart Banic said about how much the Ministry of Science paid, but according to the calculations of this schooling, the doctor's lifelong education goes somewhere around 100,000 euros. In other words, 250m euros with layoffs, i.e. with no idea where we will hire these current or future Doctors of Science. We will simply hire them in Croatia in inadequate places or send them to the world. It's a clear point that we can discuss whether they're all in the right or most suitable, most needed social areas doctored, but from this we can argue that only 20 of them are 2 and a half thousand, it's just out of every sense. Therefore, that is the question, these are the questions of the strategy to be answered. On the other hand, criteria such as these criteria for the evaluation of scientific production apply, especially in social humanistic sciences that are simply unsustainable and scientific and professional and whatever you want. It's one prank and I can quote you literature from Australia, from New Zealand to America, Spain or Finland that it simply isn't, that it's unacceptable. He's referring to... a commercial database that itself says in its introduction that these criteria do not apply to social and humanistic sciences, which is imposed on selecting scientists in social humanistic sciences in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, tell me, where's that mind, where's that logic and what's it for? So this is simply a one-sided mistake, it's a wrong approach, it's unwarranted. You say, so we'll bring it in, now we'll adopt this, and then we'll in half a year or when I bring the strategy, and then we'll pass the law. So wait, what's the seriousness of this Home? What are we here today? We'll do one thing tomorrow. Unfortunately, it's a practice that's been a bit of a turn-on. I am perfectly not interested in whether she is today, yesterday or by not knowing when but it is all expensive to degrade the role of the Croatian Parliament when you have, when you do not know when the session begins, when it ends, which days of the week will take place, the agenda if adopted in the morning is no longer worth the afternoon. Listen, that still has to be said about the ruling coalition. So let's discuss some sort of order in the Croatian Parliament. It's really unacceptable and inadmissible. This law, the way it is passed, as it is not respected the objections of the academic community or part of the academic community, is simply a confirmation of a total mess in which we live.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37683	Replica, Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37684	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here's to agree with Mr. Tudjman on the specificities of social humanistic sciences. But the rulebook is not the subject of this debate. But I am sure that the minister will respect these differences and point where this debate should already be directed. But I would only say this when you mentioned investing in science. I absolutely agree and believe that there is no one here who will fight it to invest in science but also in education in general should be far greater and we need to have a plan to increase these investments over the coming years. But you'll probably have to agree with me, hopefully at least you'll agree with me, that not all statistics that are negative for the Republic of Croatia are conditioned at a low investment rate. You also mentioned at the beginning that they were not available to us, I don't remember exactly how you said that, documents with public debates. All these documents are available and public debate at least on this law I would dare say that it has been more than a year. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37685	Replication response, Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37686	It is not a problem that this public debate is not available, but the applicant should be determined according to those views which are exposed in the public debate and say this is acceptable, this is not acceptable for these and these reasons. Then it's a measure of things and a question of all these terminology about transparency, so I don't know what it's used for. This second question is about statistics whether it's positive or not. I agree and that it should be analysed but I believe that based on these indicators even those who are exposed here would be much more positive than it is, or I can prove it, than the minister gave in his opening statement. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37687	And Walter Boluncic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37688	Here, thank you. So here's why I'm glad you mentioned American universities where many times not only the entire university is defined in advance whether it's primarily scientific or teaching, which is kind of what it says, and that they're different about whether it's necessary as a scientist to get projects that are significant, you're progressing, you're a doctor, or you're primarily going to be teaching what I think is the intensity of this one rule. Money is a big problem, they need to be taken care of, but as long as 99% sees that they have to stay at the mentor's university where they doctored it doesn't make sense. I mean, the economy has to attract the doctors of science to the economy. Without that, a system is created which is reproduced only for itself and while perhaps higher education is significantly functioning and it is good, I stress it several times, not only high education but from kindergartens further we still have a quality education that proves all of ours going out, that part of science I think should still be measured much more than it is now. In the end, there's always talk of social and humanistic sciences that we put on one side. Social and humanistic sciences are very different. From social sciences, you can't tell from the economics that there are no magazines of the world to be published. The economy is global today, and there's no story. From humanistic sciences if we look at our history, archaeology at least by the sea, you have more to publish than later in the Roman Empire. But of course we need to protect the publication in the local language, but it was during this period that our scientific journals had to rise to the level of recognition in the world. So, I think all the time there's talk of social and humanistic beings like one. It's not right because they're very different between each other. There are even areas of science that walk. The same information she can be in math because she's on computer, she can be on FER and she can be in Philosophy. So there's a lot of science that they are. I agree that you should protect the safe Croatian language and heritage, but whatever you are doing it should not be a number, but you must have a criterion and a rating. Now it's just a question of how and how it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37689	Thank you. Replication response, Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37690	Thank you very much. Yes, this debate is simply about social and humanistic sciences has been going on for one hundred years, so I doubt that in two minutes you and I are going to solve it, but the point is, if it's about criteria, we can go the other way and if we want to be open, then why don't we go online, to full text magazines and stimulate systems for automatic translation into foreign languages, and then we do it in another way, and not value it through commercial databases. And then why don't we take other sources of citation, not these, or why don't we go because some other countries went to create a national database of national production quotes. So there are a number of other ways to do it, and not this way one way I'm not going to stay decent now I'm not going to say what I'm supposed to say here. As far as this is concerned, the first thing you said was a clear thing that science has to do with the real sector. But that assumes not only what we say every day here that we should have a strategy of scientific development, but we should have a strategy of economic development, before that the National Strategy. So it's networked. And we've been losing here for a year and a half that we haven't discussed any of these strategies. And that's what's unacceptable to me because they just turn things upside down and there's no way out. If the percentage of the separation for science remains like this in the next period we'll have the same discussion again with the same arguments and it will be me who told you a year, two, three, or I don't know what. That's what I'm saying. It just doesn't make sense. It's not rational. It's not smart. And that's why I think it's a good idea for this law to withdraw, to discuss the strategy so that we can talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37691	Thank you very much. And the closing word of Minister Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37692	Thank you, Madam Vice President, thank you to the other parliamentary deputies who participated in this second part of the debate after the clubs. Regarding Mrs. Roksandić's question about disabled students, therefore not only students, the ministry is taking care of preschool, primary and secondary schools to colleges and, on their part, encourages the work of associations that have allowed students to study with a high degree of disability and complete colleges. We have several students who participate in the teaching process from students who study at home to students who can follow a lecture from home at the university, e.g. The Faculty of Graphics. Regarding what Professor Tudjman was talking about, I must say that there is an ethical code in Croatia on advice with interested public. Professor Tudjman, this law has been discussed that way. On the web pages of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports since 21 June, you have all objections from all who have sent any proposal to the ministry and a review of the ministry on the proposal. Therefore, anyone who wished could go to the Ministry's website and look at what proposals came, which were accepted, which were not accepted and why they were not accepted. So this law really passed the most democratic procedure he could. Of course, at the end of the text that is today before you we couldn't agree on everything, part of the remarks that came from the works of the academic community, from the interested public, we accepted. So this text that is today in front of you is not equal to the initial text, meaning that we have respected some opinions. We don't give up on some of our opinions. It's our right to do the same. Therefore, saying that this law has not passed the democratic procedure is not correct. Also, you say that some figures in the material are flat-rate, everything, each number has its source, has a wave of materials that come from the EU and the European Commission and they are all accurate, none is arbitrary, none is invented. When we talk about scientific money, numbers are constantly spinning, so I will tell you exactly in 2013 work contracts expire for 116 novices, out of these 116, 81 are employed at public scientific universities or their constituents, like this, University of Zagreb 64, University of Split 8, University of Osijek 2, University of Rijeka 5, University of Zadar 1 and University of Pula 1. We have information for every scientific recruit. None of these I've listed for you must leave Croatia. According to ours, and the answer to your question you got, it's exactly how we plan to solve all these scientific recruits. So part of them we're going to solve through the conversion of external cooperation into jobs, that's 33 million kuna. Some of them are thought to be resolved through retirement, university teachers who are more than 70 years old, are in 20113. 58 and they'll all retire. At the same time, between 65 and 69 years of age, we have 419 scientists. I guarantee you that part of them will retire. Equally, we have called a first-time competition such a process has passed in Croatia by a scientific recruit, to select 20 of the best scientific recruits. They meet all the criteria that are stricter than the criteria which have caused such a heated debate by the Rules of Procedure which, the Rules of Procedure proposed by the National Council. 136 young scientific recruits have come forward from 66 of them in the field of socio-humanist sciences and have all met all the conditions prescribed by the new Regulation that all so bilely challenge. I don't think many people have read that rule and that they don't really know what it says and that its greatest flaw is that it's not strict enough. As Minister, I have called on all those who have made this Regulation for a meeting, spoken to them and asked them to submit to the election of the new National Council all the objections that have come, to explain all their solutions and to bring the new National Council when it is elected by this House, and therefore, this law must be passed as soon as possible, to get a new National Council of Science, to adopt a regulation that will correct any errors that have arisen in the adoption of the current ones that many dispute. But most of them who challenge him also challenge him because he's not strict enough. Thus, socio-humanist sciences have not been affected by this Regulation and there is no threat to the advance of scientists in the field of socio-humanist sciences. I am thanking everyone at the end of this debate, I said part of the remarks that have been made today, of course we will respect, part of it will not be our right, but one more time I would say that I would ask that there is no record that the academic community is against this law. I will list the group of names that are actually the most important representatives of the Croatian academic community who support this law and I thank them from this place: Professor Ayduković Dean, Professor Čorkalo-Birushki Dinka, Professor Čukić Bojan, Professor Đikić Ivan, Professor Gregorić Pavel, Professor Jonjic Stjepan, Professor Kraljić Hrvoje, Professor Lesar Boris, Professor Miljanić Đuro, Professor Polšek Darko, Professor of Pula Ivica, Professor of Roje Marin, Professor Santini Guste, Professor Silobrčić Vlatko, Professor Smitro Company, Professor Šulhofer Aleksandar, Professor Vehovec Maja, Professor Vinković Dejan, Professor Vlahović Christian, Professor Terzić Janošoš. These are the most productive, most famous, most excellent Croatian scientists who support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37693	Thank you very much. And the replica has a colleague, Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37694	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Now, you see, Mr. Minister, I don't know if I'm speaking any other language or, I said, I was quoting this data that you're calling, but I said that the false conclusions were drawn from it, is that not what's coming from that data and from those numbers that are listed here on these two, in this material of yours. So I didn't say that these figures weren't right, but that when those numbers were brought into correlation then the findings were wrong, the wrong conclusions were drawn, that's one thing. Secondly, we have now heard the signs of who are most productive here and who are prominent members of the scientific community, and we are not others. The problem is with estimating the scientific humanist criteria that should be stricter you can find the literature as much as you want, if you need I can deliver to you to see that it simply does not work in social humanistic sciences. You violently, since you're a minister, you can use it. As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't affect me, but it just doesn't work because it's simply not an appropriate measure for social humanities. It's not my turn to refer to my field now because it's an area of information science, biometrics as a method falls under those sciences. It's an object I usually teach by that I know what I'm talking about. And you can call whoever you want next, I'll quote to you also other professors from America I told you to New Zealand that will also confirm it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37695	Replication response, Minister Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37696	So here's the thing, Professor. I told you the minister didn't pass the rule. The regulation adopted by the National Council of Science and then the Minister called for a meeting and asked the current composition of the National Science Council to draw up all the remarks that have caused the biggest recommendations in the public and to deliver all this to the new National Council, which will then establish whether a mistake has been made for a particular area that will allow no one to slow down progress but that the general opinion of the public with which I have discussed that the criteria in the field of social humanistic sciences are actually too mild.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37697	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37698	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, first reading, P.Z. No. 270. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The amendment of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and 2. of all observations, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. 81-15, 2 were restrained, you didn't see it down there. 15-2, good. I find that most 80 votes in favour, 15 against and 2 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37699	We will discuss - Proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Croatian Science Foundation is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provision of Article 5 paragraph of the first Act on the Croatian Foundation for Science provides that the Croatian Parliament shall appoint members of the Management Board on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the proposing representative like to explain the proposal? Here's Minister Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37700	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So very briefly, so you remember we brought amendments and additions to the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science in July last year. These changes, the Croatian Foundation for Science, further becomes the central independent position of national financial instruments to support scientific projects, and thus encourages a brand new model in Croatia that we from the ministry advocate, which is a model of the transition from the state-run management of the scientific sector to the model of state control of the system. So we at the ministry do not want to manage the work of the Croatian Foundation, the allocation of funds. We want it to be an independent body, the body selected by this Assembly and the proposal of such a board of directors is in front of you, these are academic Dario Vretenar at the proposal of the University of Zagreb, Professor Dragan Poljak on the proposal of the University of Split, Professor Stipan Jonjic on the proposal of the University of Rijeka, academic Paul Rudan on the proposal of the Institute for Anthropology, Professor Dean Ayduković at the proposal of the Faculty of Philosophy and Doctor of Science of the University of Zagreb, Professor of Science Ljiljana Marks on the proposal of the Institute for Ethnology and Folklorics of the Croatian Institute for History, Institute of Archaeology, Institute for Physics and Doctor of Science Smiljana Gorita Ban on the proposal of the Institute for Agriculture and Tourism of the Institute for Adriatic Culture, Meliorisation of the Violation of the Violation of the Violation of the Institute of Agriculture and Agricultural Institute of Osijek. What is important is that all areas are equally represented so that this foundation can work in a quality way, I hope, since Friday, to get to work so that the funds provided for the work of the Croatian Science Foundation can be spent on improving scientific projects in Croatia as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37701	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I am finalising the debate on the motion for a decision, and we will come forward later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37702	Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science. The debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes 83 for and 14 abstentions have been decided on the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Croatian Science Foundation in the text as proposed by the proposings.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37703	And we will also - Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on representation in the area of industrial property rights, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 287 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Does the minister want to explain the proposal? Here you go, Mr. Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37704	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, let's hear about it, though. Therefore, the Law on representation in the area of industrial property rights is amended to bring Croatian legislation regulating the provision of representation services in the area of industrial property rights in line with the EU acquis. The law should be brought into line with the applicable Internal Market Services Directive, in particular Article 14 thereof. According to the current legal solution, one of the conditions for entry into the register of authorised representatives was that a natural person has Croatian citizenship and residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. that a legal person is established in the Republic of Croatia, which is contrary to the provision of the directive by accession of the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to ensure the freedom to provide services to service providers from Contracting States of the European Economic Area and, in addition, in accordance with national gender equality policy, that the use of a natively sensitive language in state bodies and bodies of individuals of local and regional self-government will be promoted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37705	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We also don't have any reports, so I'm closing the debate and we'll vote on the bill later. And colleagues and colleagues only give information for work tomorrow. We will begin at 9.30 with a proposal for a law amending the law on sport, and then we will continue with point 27 of the final draft law on the implementation of the EU regulation on the coordination of social security systems and order in terms of agenda points as in the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-17-0.u37706	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on representation in the area of industrial property law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 287. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 107 votes, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on representation in the area of industrial property rights has been adopted, in the text proposed by the Proposer.
