ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53391	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. We are starting today's session with - A report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2012 The Ombudsman for persons with disabilities presented the report on the basis of Article 17. The Attorney General's Act on Persons with Disabilities. You've received the material into the boxes. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Health and Social Care, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. The opening report will explain the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities, Ms Anka Slonjšak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53392	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. Thank you for inviting me to submit a report on the work of the office for 2012. This year we mark five years from the start of the office, i.e. this institution. Despite attempts to abolish the office as a private institution, he continued to carry out his own law of intended duty independently. During the period for which the report is submitted, we have acted in 1625 cases, initiatives, consultations for the purpose of protecting, monitoring and promoting the rights of persons with disabilities. The report we have submitted in relation to the previous reporting period has not seen a change in the negative trends we have been warning of for many years. Although it may seem that persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties remained spared the crisis caused by further deterioration of the economic situation because there was no incurring in cash compensations resulting from disability. The difficulties we have experienced will show that the burden of a severe general condition has broken over their backs. In addition, an increasing number of complaints are made by persons with disabilities and parents, namely families who care about a child or an adult, who live in conditions of general poverty and are very often exposed to the extraordinary efforts of searching for information on rights from different systems, but also to the absence of systematic and versatile support. In 2012, it was marked by the great dissatisfaction of associations, as well as the protest actions of parents caused by the worse situation and the lack of rights. In the area of providing social services through the projects and programmes implemented by the associations, there has been a reduction of funds. We are constantly warning the Government that these services directly contribute to preventing institutionalisation, affecting the health and quality of life, both persons and children with developmental difficulties and their families, and the state has not provided them in any other way. There has been almost no shift in resolving the burning issues we have raised since the first report. People with autism still do not have adequate systematic care and support. There is also great dissatisfaction with the excessive red tape of the health system, and healthcare seems to be becoming more and more inaccessible to a growing number of people with disabilities. As far as accessibility is concerned, despite investing in the adjustment of public purpose structures and reports that they adapt, complaints about violations of rights are not reduced. At the same time, many systems have reduced resources because they believe that accessibility is resolved in a satisfactory way that is not correct. In addition to the conclusion that the issue of the inclusion of persons with disabilities is not always and even the primary issue of financial resources also tells the fact that we continue to face great prejudices, especially in the field of education and employment, but also in general through the understanding that a reasonable adjustment is a plea rather than a fundamental standard for the achievement of human rights of persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties for... opportunities in the realisation of their potential. The area of education and education is one of the five most frequently addressed areas in the previous year. In their complaints, they pointed to violations of rights, inclusive education, and from preschool education to high school education. In the field of labour and employment they complained very often about the employment process, asked for recommendations, interpretation of regulations, but also submitted complaints about the exercise of the law on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, sought advice on the exercise of the right to employment in the open labour market, but also complained of discrimination. In this reporting period as well as in previous examples, we also provide examples showing that the indetermination of the law prevents its application, as well as the preparation of the text or recommendation that we have made for the new law currently in the parliamentary procedure. It is widely expected for people with disabilities, and the main challenge of the whole process has proved to be the problem of establishing professional rehabilitation, definition, skills and evidence of disability, as well as accepting this evidence as a relevant document, for example. Achieving the advantage of employment or perhaps enrolment in higher school institutions. Employment for people with disabilities is not only a question of existence but also a question of personal affirmation and a prerequisite for independent living with an appropriate standard of living and equal participation. Furthermore, the largest number of performances in which we have dealt concerned the area of social protection, then the areas of accessibility, housing and mobility, as well as health care, which I will say a little bit more about later. In the area of pension insurance, most often the parties complained about the outcome of the proceedings for the exercise of the right to invalidity pension, family pension, the amount of compensation for physical damage, but also sought advice on rights in the area. We also acted on amendments and additions to regulations under the Law on the Ombudsman. We have given 57 opinions or suggestions on amendments and additions to 34 regulations. We gave our own initiative and proposed 37 amendments, additions or adoptions to 21 regulations from the fields of employment, education, justice, pension insurance, accessibility, and culture and sports. We have participated in discussions of the working bodies of this Assembly on the applications, amendments and additions of existing or the adoption of new regulations. What is one part, a significant part of the work is the insight into the areas where people with disabilities are working, working or educated, and in that part we visited 11 counties where we visited and visited social care institutions, homes for older and powerless persons, homes for mentally ill adults, for example in Otočac, Caglin, Trogir, Suhopolje and other cities. We visited penitentiary facilities, hospital treatment facilities, such as Vrapce psychiatric hospital, Lopaca, and rooms of the Association of Persons with Disabilities. During the tour, talks were held with users, protégés, students, premises and meetings were held with representatives of institutions and institutions. A significant number of meetings were also held with representatives of the counties, cities and the Social Care Centre. On our own initiative, we addressed 285 different recommendations, warnings, questions. We have done and conducted 24 studies just to learn as much about the situation and state of higher education, professional rehabilitation and health and social protection. We also held a series of lectures at higher education institutions to raise awareness. We participated actively in 87 events that were organised by different institutions just to improve the state and general picture of people with disabilities. We have participated since the Republic of Croatia was in pre-accession periods, and since it joined the EU for 14 international events. And I must say that every day more and more questions are being asked by the international institutions about the situation and condition of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. We organized a series of meetings with representatives of various associations, institutions. Then we participated in the media 46 different media in Kjo9ma is published meaning in 115 different texts both electronic and written. In addition, we have published 3 publications, one of which has just been shared to you parliamentary representatives in a special report during the processing of a special report in early 2013 when we have actually pointed out the difference between the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Ways, i.e. how it lives in practice. In that part, some conclusions were adopted and adopted, which the Assembly referred to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'd just like to set some aside here. Those which, when adopting new rules, need to ensure their compliance with the principles of human rights, should be ensured that existing legislation is interpreted in accordance with the meaning and spirit of the Convention. It is necessary to revise the terminology, to highlight the obligation of direct application of the Convention in the work of all state bodies. But what is also very important is that the rights of persons with disabilities as well as the rights of other citizens are part of the competence of all governmental resolutions and ministries and it is necessary for all ministries to be actively involved in the creation and implementation of policies for disabled persons in their jurisdiction. The central place for the implementation of the Convention within the Government as well as the coordination mechanism under the Government should ensure greater availability of written instructions, guidelines and recommendations as well as examples of good practice related to the implementation of certain articles of the Convention by ensuring systematic monitoring and verification of the proposed activities in relation to the requirements and in order to avoid only the principle of acceptance of the proposed measures and activities without their actual implementation. I will continue to give a more detailed account of the difficulties of people with disabilities who have the greatest impact on families of children with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities themselves. The current government policy, which is also seen in the Social Care Act, provides for the Association of Persons with Disabilities as social services providers for persons with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities. In this area for many years, we have considerable difficulties that further increased in 2012. In early May 2012, we were joined by a number of associations that carry out three-year projects that provide social services to people with disabilities. As a result of the reduction of funds, further provision of these services was at stake. The main complaints were from associations that gather people with mental retardation and intellectual difficulties most at the risk of institutionalisation. The invitation to tender for the services they need has not been opened. Similarly, no other tenders for other support services for disabled persons also focused on preventing institutionalisation, so associations providing such necessary services could not report and seek funds for them. A particular problem is uncertainty as well as continued work, i.e. continuity with associations that only provide services in their local environments. As far as independent life and participation in the community is concerned, it is the right of persons with disabilities guaranteed by the Convention. In the Republic of Croatia, the traditional care of people with disabilities is mostly those with mental and intellectual difficulties that could not live without the support of living in the community carried out their permanent housing in the homes of social care. How the institutionalisation of persons with disabilities is unacceptable from the point of view of human rights and the obligation to comply with the provisions of the Convention in the Republic of Croatia has begun the process of deinstitutionalising and transforming the homes of which is the process of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. In order for these processes to be implemented, a system of community support is needed, i.e. to develop new forms of social services that will be available to people with disabilities as support for independent life. In this particular section, to explore progress, the office made a visit to 10 counties during 2012, i.e. 11 social care homes for caring for mentalally ill adults, two rehabilitation centres and one association for inclusion. We have established that the process of deinstitutionalisation is really slowed down because of the lack of social services intended to support independent life in the community. We therefore also made a recommendation to the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth in this regard. As for persons with physical disabilities, there is still a problem of providing personal assistant services that continues to be financed through the Social Policy and Youth Ministry project. It is also referred to as a recommendation for the normative regulation of the issue of assistance services which will be available to all categories of persons with disabilities in accordance with their individual needs and independent of the membership of individuals in the association. In the debate on the adoption of the Social Care Act, we proposed that personal disability as a compensation intended to involve the independent life of the community be dependent only on the severity of disability, and not on income, and especially on the property of a person. In the event that all three criteria remain, such a concept shall not contribute even more to the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the world of work. Similarly, we can talk about some social care services that are limited in a way that e.g. The psychosocial support in a family that is needed is limited to only 5 hours a week, not according to individual needs. As social care services meet rehabilitation needs, needs of care, stay, assistance and meeting all other living needs, which directly prevents possible institutionalisation, we believe that all rights and services should be carefully considered in the context of ensuring that an independent life for people with disabilities is guaranteed. Many complaints have also come about the right to regulate parental status or the status of carers. In that part, we also recommended to the competent ministry that, in future amendments or the adoption of laws, more clearly define the purpose and nature of this right and the possible restriction on its achievement. We also referred to the work of the social care centre and professional staff because there are a significant number of complaints from the users of the social care centre. It is necessary to work to raise awareness and sensitivity of professionals and the public about the need for people with disabilities to have the right to live as active and independent as possible in the community. Without this, the social care system cannot respond to the challenges of solving the very complex and subtle problems of people with disabilities in conditions in which they cannot overcome the gap between real opportunities and expectations of the persons themselves. Where general poverty is taken into account and their excessive dependence on persons with disabilities on social benefits, a large number of those who need adjustment due to disability cannot provide them with their own resources or with family assistance. So for many, any adjustment to the space, housing, when disability occurs. Many people, whether they live alone or in a family circle, are socially depressed and isolated. Where the death or infirmity of family members falls short of the assistance they depend on in the absence of suitable solutions and the absence of units of a self-accessible housing or housing with the support of fixed persons are normally placed in institutions. The system must therefore find a solution to overcome these difficulties. As for people with autism, this problem has been dealt with intensively for more than 3 years. State bodies and institutions should provide children and adults with autism and their parents with adequate support that should inevitably include that the education system so-called health care and social care system in such a way that multidisciplinary support is available to every child and person in the community in which they live. The fact of the existence of a single rehabilitation institution for the implementation of very demanding and comprehensive care and which acts de facto as a school that provides entirely improper accommodation services for adults and children from other parts of Croatia is the reason for the unsustainable moves of the Government of Croatia which must respond to the illegality and years of supporting practice that the problems of autism in Croatia are being reduced to the transfer of responsibility between the City of Zagreb and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports in order to transfer under quotes this "hot potato" called autism to the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth who are trying to bring together those who need to change this situation with concrete decisions. To establish complete and appropriate care for people with autistic spectrum disorders is not enough just to provide means to improve living and professional conditions in the center for autism. I'm going to quote one parent: "Autism Center is a fig leaf that hides the shame of the state's carelessness where we record the number of 1145 persons with some of the disorders from the autistic spectrum in the register of people with disabilities, and we don't know what parameters this disorder is estimated to be because there are no valid diagnostics and how many people so far rehabilitated, trained for life and involved in the community, which should be the purpose of any rehabilitation." As regards the health care of persons with disabilities in 2012 they did indeed complain about the different exercise of rights. However, I would single out that for people with spinal injury, they are still waiting for the establishment of a spinal centre where they could first receive comprehensive health care and rehabilitation. We have no concrete knowledge of any shifts in this area. As regards dental protection of children with developmental difficulties and disabled persons, it remains a major problem, especially in Slavonia and Dalmatia where the order to provide such services is waiting for months or patients are even forced to seek care in other parts of Croatia. The absence of adequate dental protection constitutes discrimination against those persons in need. During 2012, we received several complaints concerning treatment errors. In such cases, we asked the competent ministry to carry out health inspection to determine the professional work of the health care institution as well as how it can be done in that section. In some cases, they warned us and complained of disobeying the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights. The complaint shows that medical staff are not sufficiently familiar with the provisions of this regulation relating to patients' rights and their protection, and therefore we believe that there is a need to carry out a system of education and encourage the level of public awareness of the duty of respect for patients' rights. As for the appropriate protection of persons with mental disorders, the effects of mental illness have not been seen even minimal progress. The absence of an outpatient system of treatment, lack of psychiatry in the community, the rehabilitation prevention system leads to multiple hospitalisations resulting in institutionalisation, social exclusion, isolation, stigmatisation, loss of work ability, and then a lack of business ability, all of which constitutes a significant entanglement in the fundamental human rights of those persons. The Republic of Croatia has not taken the necessary measures to bring its health system in line with international documents and standards. When we talk about the lack of business capacity, although the provisions of the Convention guarantee the same preservation and business capacity with adequate support in decision-making, the Republic of Croatia continues to have a traditional custody system as a replacement decision. In 2011 The office organised a meeting just to show the difference between the convention and practice. In this same place, our different experts participating in this process have jointly made recommendations that we have made to the competent ministries in terms of amending and supplementing the current regulations. In that part, we have proposed to amend the sublegal acts, as well as proposals to amend the custody institute in the Family Law, which is also currently under discussion. As far as education and education are concerned, despite multiple recommendations to bring up the rules that regulate schooling of students with developmental difficulties as quickly as possible, so as to regulate the issue of support, scope and intensity programmes in Croatia as possible, and the process of determining and deciding, reviewing the decisions governing the development of the rules have not been adopted so far. From complaints sent to the office about the right to inclusive education, we note that students with major or combined difficulties often make it easy to propose education in special institutions of education and education before trying to apply all forms of support. There is still insufficient use of professional support for teaching staff, mobile teams, agency counselling, right to inclusion. In such cases, schools have been recommended to take all measures to adapt to the needs of students with developmental difficulties in particular through the use of integration rights, professional education of teaching staff and the establishment of constructive cooperation with parents. As for higher education, students with disabilities are increasingly involved in higher education each year. Often in spite of the system than thanks to its support. I would point out the example of higher education institutions that point out that they do not have students with disabilities, so they do not need to adapt, thus losing sight of the fact that this is precisely the attitude and non-applicability of those institutions and they will not report candidates with disabilities. There is no way we can agree with the possible conclusion that funding is the only thing that makes it impossible for more students to choose to continue their education according to their preferences and abilities because they are involved and insist on their rights even when it implies that they are worn upstairs so that they can participate in the course. The Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education as a fundamental law governing this area does not mention students with disabilities in any part of it. We are even further away from the adoption of sublegal acts which should regulate the form and way of providing support, and, for example, prescribe minimum accessibility standards. For the time being, the only systematic and comprehensive initiative and proposal for establishing a support system, education of the academic community and raising the level of awareness that students with disabilities who, in accordance with the Constitution, need to be equally available by the project, and concrete forms of support are provided projectally and thanks to the initiatives of the students themselves gathered in their associations. We welcome that, as part of the draft strategy for education of science and technology of the Republic of Croatia, for the first time at the legislative level, there are measures that need to be achieved in order to involve students with disabilities in higher education. We just hope that the strategy will be accepted and that, on its basis, implementing documents will be drawn up which will clearly regulate the rights of disabled students as well as the minimum standards that all higher education institutions must provide, and whose lack currently in practice leads to discrimination on persons with disabilities in access to higher education. For the end of the opening part, I would like to give a life example of a young family. After the mother of two twins in one place in Split-Dalmatia County noticed that boys show deviations from expected emotional development took them to the necessary early intervention treatments in Split. Many parents who are far from bigger places because of a difficult social situation will not be able to take their children to therapy that would allow them to be at their earliest age when it is the greatest importance and development. In many places necessary therapy for logos, defectologists and psychologists are missing. Where they are present, as is the case with Split, they are so insufficient that after the third year of life and visible movements, children cancel their treatments so that children who are on long waiting lists can be admitted, and others point to continued treatment in the place of residence. That wouldn't be questionable if there were such treatments in that place. Thanks to the tenacity of the parents who joined together and first supported each other, and later took the time they wanted to devote care to their children to write projects... They were continued in the association. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the ministry had ceased to finance a three-year project through which these services were provided and without the support of local self-government, children would remain without such support that parents had not been educated and wrote a project through which they would receive funds through the pre-accession European Union funds. The mother's talking about her children just because they didn't want to see her in kindergarten any other way. In the end, they were admitted at two o'clock. And she pays a full price like the parents of other children. There are no logos in kindergarten, no defecologists. And the second mother adds at that meeting that she was telling aunts how to work with her children. Everything remains, in fact, at the good will of kindergarten directors and educators. A boy who didn't come across such a good will is a group of 26 children and his mother finds him as well as leaving him, sitting on a mat because he can't establish communication and there's no one left to work with and help him get involved. Mother says her son is perceived as an object left in the corner. It's just one picture of what life today looks like for children with developmental difficulties and their families. Despite the fact that the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, Convention, Preschool Education Act, which says that children with difficulty should have the advantage of enrolment, our reality is that equal treatment with children only happens where there is good faith and there is no systematic support. Instead of helping parents parents spend their energy on finding funds and hiring experts and assistants to help their children. The association told us that even if they were parents and found the means to hire assistants, they were not sure whether the kindergarten director would allow him to work with the child. Here, thank you for your time and for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53393	Thank you very much. The replica on your presentation has Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53394	Honorable attorneys, colleagues and colleagues. Well, what you told us today, it's alarming. We're ringing the alarm to the most vulnerable group of citizens and these are people with disabilities we're insensitive to. What you filed today's report and what we had a chance to read is that the state is not working. Ministrys that need to take care of people with disabilities are taking care of the media. Mostly media campaigns are being conducted, meaning 520,000 people who need an ongoing need, need to intervene the state, and the state does not allow them to do so. This can only be characterized by a single word and that's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53395	Would you like to respond to the replica? ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first is the HDZ Representatives' Club and counterpart Gjurdise Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53396	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Ombudsman for persons with disabilities with associates and respected sign language translator, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here's listening to this attorney's report you were here yesterday, today we've been listening to the report by the attorney general, the discrimination report, and then the child counsel. I would say that since five, this year you mark the fifth anniversary of existence you have proved indeed what it means to be independent, which means brave and justified to fight for the rights of persons with disabilities. And you can do that because you know, you understand and you live with these problems. This is how it's spoken when no one's getting up, but it's simply spoken in the interest. It's hard to repeat all that again after your report. You have also talked about a series of legislative regulations and different declarations that have been signed and these are all documents that really should have contributed to a better position of persons with disabilities in society. I would say that, in my opinion, and I'm sure it's yours, too, that the National Strategy for Equalising opportunities for people with disabilities from 2007 to 2015 is one of the key elements and so is the UN Convention. So I will start with the introduction of this national strategy, which says that the fundamental commitment of the Republic of Croatia to the implementation of an active human rights policy stems from the adoption of key international documents as modern standards in this area and is reflected in their installation in the national legislative framework and implementation in practice. The protection of vulnerable social groups such as persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties is particularly important. The Republic of Croatia, in that term and in its term of office from 2003 to 2007, along with a number of laws specifically aimed at setting up special protection, elaborated constitutional provisions for further progress in the area of protection of persons with disabilities, and a programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that was socially targeted, rested on the principles of social justice and sustainable care for all and, where necessary, respect for dignity and equality as well as the achievement of equal opportunities for all citizens. It strengthens the position of individuals in order to achieve its successful personal development and position in society. As I said, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is one of the youngest UN international documents and the Republic of Croatia was among the first four European countries to sign the Convention. And your report clearly says, it's done a lot of really, we have legislation, we have everything but we have barriers. We sometimes have excuses that you can't do this, and you said yourself because of some bad economic situation isn't now the time so a lot is done, okay, it'll do even more. In this context where you are talking about accessibility, housing and mobility, we must remember what it is like to be a real lawyer, but also because of the government at that time, and here, five years ago, a lot of accessibility, housing and mobility needs more. I'd like to talk about the situation we're in right now. Croatia is a member of the European Union and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees that all Croatian citizens have equal rights and therefore the right to work. I think that, among other things, the right to work is very important as well as the person with disabilities because then it strengthens them in all segments, becomes independent, and they know how much further and further they have their money paid for, and we know that often here a month ago, a workshop that employs persons with disabilities in one county did not pay their salaries for three months. I don't know if those salaries are paid now, that's where we warned about the situation, I hope that's settled. Croatia's preparations for membership of the European Union are already under way, and 2007. Croatia has signed the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and in the European Union persons with disabilities have equal treatment. So we are a member of the European Union and we must have this same and equal treatment, with the emphasis that there is much more to be said in the European Union about the inclusion and awareness of the inclusion of people with disabilities in all the pores of life and so on work. Under the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, Croatia is said to have one person with disabilities and 4% and 5% in 2017, respectively. I even say 5%, with the fact that we have to say that the employment rate of persons with disabilities in other members of the European Union is up to 50%, and where there are no quotas, which is good because these quotas are binding tools. There is something else I would like to look back on, and it has been for two days when it comes to the reports of the other lawyers, but very often, here in the morning on the show "Good Morning" on HRT there have been talk about children, but also in the media, but there are very often times amongst us fellow MPs the terms are used that are absolutely no longer in use, but I would say that they have changed the Sheriton Declaration when people with disabilities have accepted those terms because they are the same in their part of the disabled person not to get away with it. It does not have a negative sound then, but has a neutral meaning that adequately describes them. Discussions between the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities and members of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and representatives of the authorities unanimously supported the terms of persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. In the Croatian media space, however, there are still times in place for people with special needs. Well, once I reacted here in the assembly when one representative said that, I asked him what his special needs were. Then they talk about disabled people, disabled people, and many other terms that are used. I must say, this morning, I heard those same terms again on HRT. I don't understand. However, some believe that people with disabilities exaggerated in pointing out the correct term given the fact that the socially acceptable and neutral way of calling is so often changed. However, it is evident that our attitude toward a particular group of people is already reflected in the series we refer to them as. According to such an understanding, unequal treatment, or discrimination begins already in the name that we may have accidentally marked a person in the beginning as a disabled, or less valuable disabled, who lacks something and thus reduces it to its lack instead of experiencing it as a person who has some difficulties, but also has abilities, has both desires and needs like everyone else. Because of this, the term for people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties is also accepted. Of course, it is also recommended to use the term of a person who moves with the help of wheelchairs, persons with difficulty in moving instead of people with disabilities with wheelchairs, person with impaired vision, person with impaired hearing, person with muscular dystrophy of people with multiple sclerosis, persons with intellectual difficulties instead of persons with mental retardation or mentally retarded persons, since the term retarded in the colloquial speech has become extremely ugly. People with psychosocial disabilities instead of psychiatric patients, mental patients or mental patients. I'd read a few quotes from journalism students who were really very nice in their report on people with disabilities using the right terms. So he says, "Do not put emphasis on damage, but on a person. Do not use human suffering to increase the coverage and obedience. Write about them how they would like to write about you with respect, interest, and equalness. Persons with disabilities are not special or different and therefore should not be treated differently. We are all equal members of society, each in its own way, every diversity should be respected. The objective reporting also applies to persons with disabilities. Show them, normally show their abilities, work and get to know the society, that they are quite normal people like everyone who wants to work and lead a normal life. And I'd like to look back on something else, because there's not a lot of time here and there are women with disabilities. Very often, women are generally referred to as only one subject. It's violence against women in the family or unemployment of women. Equally, all the characteristics we all experience, experience women with disabilities, and have to say they are triple-discriminatory. They were discriminated against as a woman compared to the opposite sex, as a woman with disabilities and unfortunately as a woman with other women. Women with disabilities are most often referred to in cases where they are victims of violence, i.e. at gatherings and debates aimed at empowering them in efforts to elect equal rights in the family, the environment, and especially in the working environment, which is the focus of the majority. The right to work as a fundamental human right for people with disabilities is a prerequisite for achieving independence on the assistance of others, the possibility of independence in decision-making and life choices, and independent life in the community. Despite the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and many other international and national documents, action plans, initiatives, as well as the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, unfortunately there is no starting point. Obstructions of higher employment among people with disabilities in our country are becoming less and less evident in employers' attitudes. The growing problem is the rigidity of the education system, and you've made it very clear. And I personally watched a few shows, but I also personally know people who study. So it's just that the goodwill of an institution, i.e. college, high school or school, which makes sure that a student as a person with difficulties or disability can come, that he has architectural accessibility, that he can participate in continuing with the fact that the education system itself does not regulate it. We must not agree to the justification that the economic situation in the country is responsible for such a large number of unemployed and that people with disabilities make up a relatively small share of the total unemployed. Why do they make a small share? Because there are very few employees. Such views, according to which persons with disabilities share the fate of all unemployed, represent false equality and poses a risk of reflecting the existing situation and denying the importance of the participation of persons with disabilities in the creation of goods and services, while neglecting the obligation of society to provide them with it. In order for people with disabilities to really be equal with other citizens in the field of employment and work, they need strong community support in achieving those jobs that correspond to their capabilities and abilities Many requests, thank you very much. [[Break Zgrebec: Bring the end of your colleague.]] Of course, the HDZ Club will support your report and we will, however, fight all of us in our club to make all the legal regulations as you yourself have said that are brought in line with all these conventions and declarations. And thank you very much and thank you. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53397	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Ana Komaric Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53398	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Madam Attorney with my associates, colleagues and colleagues. Before I present my view of this report on behalf of the club, I would like to say that the SDP Club will support the Ombudsman's 2012 disability report. We believe that the lawyer and her associates have made a very good report with a quality analysis, pointing to a number of problems that people with disabilities face. If we have carefully read this report, you have noticed that people with disabilities face a number of restrictions, inability and misunderstandings of the environment and a series of difficulties in their daily lives. Even though we've been listening to both the attorney and the colleague before me there are laws, there are regulations, there are institutions, but in fact somehow we get the impression by reading this report that it actually remains all dead letter on paper. No matter what we all accept this report, we must absolutely stress that there have been major changes from 2011 to 2012, that our fellow people with disabilities in the 21st century are still struggling with the problem of accessibility of housing, mobility and protection against discrimination at work, and all of this can be added to the difficult economic situation which, of course, makes the situation of all of us and then the person, especially the person with disabilities. When we talk about accessibility, then we cannot take away the impression that all our institutions should have adapted by 2007 and that today, that is, the Ombudsman will not give us an answer today as to how adjusted the institution is and what needs to be adapted. It will not give us that answer for reasons why units of local self-government and regional self-government as well as the state should report to the Ombudsman according to the law on what they have done so far and what they plan to do in the next period. And since they don't do that, then the D.A. can't absolutely give us an answer to such a question, so we can all ask ourselves nicely where is legal certainty. When we talk about health care that a large one chapter is dedicated to in this report and the Ombudsman herself in the opening, then if you were, and you were, you were all in our hospitals and you were all in our homes of health. You can see that our hospitals aren't really adapted to people with disabilities, they're not hardly adapted to moving persons, that rarely any department has a toilet for people with disabilities, that rarely any department has a special shower for people with disabilities. Then we can all wonder together again what it's like to enter our fellow citizens into the institutions of the hospital system and also to the homes of health. When we talk about education and education, education and education, of course, we had two weeks ago, I think the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, where it is emphasized that our disabled persons are actually a low degree of education. This is therefore a fact, and it all comes from the fact that our system of education is actually unsuitable to people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. Even in large cities you have the opportunity to go to kindergarten, you have the opportunity to go to primary and secondary schools and later to colleges. But where problems arise are therefore smaller environments, rural environments where these children and parents are truly left to themselves. And what we at the club believe is that the system should answer these and such questions. Regardless of what the option is in power, we really think that we should start taking intensive care of it. And of course, if you're a disabled person, you're lucky you're out of school or college, then you're in front of one of the next big steps, which is employment. And I think we're all aware that employment and income are actually a prerequisite for a independent and independent life for all of us, especially a person with disabilities. And in this segment, I would like to emphasise the exceptional importance of a personal assistant, because, with the job of employment and income, a personal assistant truly ensures the safety and sense of independence of a person with disabilities. And for this reason, on behalf of the club, I would like to point out once again here that it is extremely important to pass the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which provides for an advantage in employment and which, of course, has its own provisions and that criminal segment which will in some way, make a positive discrimination towards persons with disabilities. I want to point out another problem facing people with disabilities, which is smart cards. I talked about it with the last report. So smart cards are cards that were introduced for people with disabilities to use our highways for free. And what went wrong was that these cards were tied to a car, not to a person with disabilities. And we feel that it should change. It needs to be changed because in this way we have forced a disabled person to buy a car which, of course, in the situations in which they are located is extremely difficult. According to the information I have been doing, the Ministry of the Sea is intensively looking for a solution to this problem, and I deeply hope, I have some promise from the ministry that this problem will soon be resolved. We are a tourist country and we are a country where tourism is one of the largest economic branches and I will dare say yes, but still not for people with disabilities. Few of us in the summer when we go to the sea are thinking about whether our fellow citizens who are disabled are difficult mobile or undersighted persons are also enjoying the benefits of our Adriatic as we are. If you look at the situation with our hotels, then you will notice that hotels on the Adriatic are not adapted to people with disabilities. And I must point out here that the wheelchair ramp is not the adjustment of the hotel to people with disabilities. The rooms must be taken care of, restaurants must be taken care of, swimming pools must be taken care of, and this way I could be listed indefinitely. So the wheelchair ramp is not and cannot be adapted to the hotel for disabled persons. If we looked at the report, it seems to me that there is no better situation in adapting our parks of nature and national parks, so people with disabilities can't actually be tourists. We don't perceive them as tourists, which is actually completely wrong. I would like to stress that the Republic of Croatia has 8 beaches, I apologize if any more have been made. Here are my data from eight beaches for disabled people, i.e. for disabled people, I apologize for five in Primorje-goranska, two in Zagreb, Split, Zadar, Vodice. And I don't think that we have any beaches south of Split, and our islands have therefore not recognised the same persons with disabilities as those who want to receive the summer as their guests. I'm sorry if something really happened in the meantime. So this is the data that was available to me. In doing so again, I want to stress the access to the sea is not a beach for people with disabilities. If someone only has a ramp to enter the sea, it is not a beach adapted to disabled people, it is known exactly what should look like, what are regulations and laws. So the D.A. was saying something about the flexibility of the health system. We fully agree here, we think that we should try to find a solution to the flexibility of the health system in terms of vouchers, i.e. personal IDs of every person with disabilities that we should start listening and listen to the needs of people with disabilities. And in the end, I want to point out a little bit that some things are going towards the better. Of course, in September 2012, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth decided to transform the deinstitutionalisation of two major institutions. It was the Centre for Rehabilitation "Stancic" and the Centre for Rehabilitation "Zagreb" which we certainly support, we think people with disabilities must get out of isolation. And this law I was already talking about is therefore the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment which I hope will soon come in the second reading and that this House will support it. I think on behalf of the SDP club, I've only opened up a few of the problems that people with disabilities face, and I can say that we forget them many times and forget their problems, but I think we all have to take care together that the problems exist, that they will always be there, that they will seek our attention and that we can't put them on hold regardless of the economic situation in the country. And I will repeat what I said and in the 2011 Report, please, colleagues and colleagues, let's not discuss people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties only with the Ombudsman's report and then when we bring all the other laws in this House of Commons and we fight for society of equal opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53399	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the replicas. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53400	Dear fellow Comparić-Devčić, you have pleasantly surprised me, I fully agree with your debate. The most important thing in your debate was not politics, which is extremely important, you honestly talked about problems on behalf of the SDP club. You said it was a good report. I totally agree with you. Which means that the poor functioning of state institutions is not since yesterday, not since two years ago, but the poor functioning of institutions back 20 years. And you've confirmed what I often say in the House that our laws are often good but they're a dead letter on paper. And this last sentence that you said we were thinking and when we passed laws that we thought in practice not laws. If we were to enforce the laws of good that we have in Croatia, we would be one of the best states. Just as well with the bad laws. But we don't follow the law at all, we don't follow. If more than one-fifth of Croatian citizens are at risk, and the state does not respond, if there are needs and the state does not react that you are right, we are all responsible for it. And we're always just reacting favorarily, always reacting when there's such a theme on the agenda, but we don't react every day. This is all that you have counted all the difficulties that people with disabilities face for sure that they should be dealt with every day. And that issue of legal certainty, yes, it's a very big question not only for people with disabilities and otherwise legal certainty. So there you go. With this, everything you said in the end, you wanted little to improve the impression of the government, Minister Milanka Opačić deserves a fat unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53401	Replication response, Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53402	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, I have said from day one in this House that I will never politicise on issues concerning persons with disabilities as well as children and any other vulnerable groups in our society. I was really telling the truth, I was saying what I think and what my club thinks and the fact is and I said it didn't move too much, but if I tried to fix it, I don't think I did. I just said what really happened. So maybe we're not all happy, maybe we could do more, maybe we are. But that's the fact that it was done. And when I was speaking then I really spoke very honestly, and I think we all need to move together persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties in the area of health and social care, they belong absolutely to all the ministries, they belong absolutely to all the institutions as well as each of us. Therefore, when we talk about law - making, when we make laws, we think about where such groups are in that law. Let's not just stand there and watch letters on paper. We need to see what it'll look like when some law is applied in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53403	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53404	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, you said the SDP club would support the report. Of course, no one suspects it, everyone will support the report. I don't know who would be against the report. You also said that many questions must be answered by the system. Well, it's those two lines of yours that prompted me to this replica. I expected that on behalf of the SDP club, you would say something that would give answers to future reports so that no positive shifts or health care has been observed. This is what the party who manages the Croatian state is expected to provide in such reports some indication of the answers to these questions in the report. Because it's interesting when we look at a report like this, it's okay that we all agree, we're all aware of the situation in which people with disabilities are. But it's not normal for a majority club that has a government to say and we just find that that's the case, and we don't give a solution until at the same time when government institutions give their reports, then the SDP club absolutely speaks for itself in the name of the government and defends the government's views. So I think we should set things up a little differently here and get some answers for that. And do you discuss and speak more often than just while the report is? Well, of course, it's not normal for the report to come in line at the end of 2013. So now we should be discussing whether there were any positive developments in 2013. In a year, we'll be discussing a new report in two years. That's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53405	Ana Komraric Devčić responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53406	Thank you, Vice President. I stuck to the subject. Today, the 2012 report I couldn't talk about 2013, I really respected the Rules of Procedure, and I stuck to the subject. When I spoke on behalf of the SDP club, I was relatively maybe critical, I wasn't real, we at the club are real and we are aware of the problems in which we are all together and our fellow citizens and we are aware that maybe we should do more and really talk about it and we think that this way we also support our government and point to problems that maybe in the woods someone doesn't see. But look, I don't think I'm politicizing on this subject, we've been very honest, and you've been taking politics in your replica, and you've done a little politicizing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53407	Ante Babic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53408	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Comparić Devčić, I have listened carefully to your exposure and you obviously know this problem of people with disabilities very well. And you mentioned, of course, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, and I would refer to that ministry and say here in the presence of a lawyer with the disability of the respected Mrs. Slonjak. In the last two years there's been no contests, and if anything happens, it really happens at the last minute and in a hurry. You should ask why late payments are made by contracts that create major problems for associations. You also mentioned that, in addition to this report and the ministry, there should be some other foundations and those dealing with the problems of people with disabilities, let's say, the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, which has strange selection criteria for granting support. And reminding us, the Ombudsman pointed out that the funding of associations and projects of these associations in rural areas and islands that have many difficulties, which are far from major centres especially when it comes to rehabilitators, defecologists, logos or psychologists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53409	Reply to replica Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53410	I fully agree with you and the Ombudsman that associations are extremely important in deinstitutionalising people with disabilities, the work of associations is very well known to me and I know what they are dealing with and I know how much it means to people with disabilities. But the fact is also found in the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth at the very least, if I can say some payments that were not quite according to some criteria, and I hope that when the situation is fixed now and when the actual criteria get the money for those who really need it will remain much more money probably for the associations themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53411	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Vishny Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53412	Thank you very much. Honored vice presidents, esteemed attorneys, colleagues and colleagues. If you let me go I'll go a little differently, I didn't want to answer the lines that here's just to go faster but I'd say right now that I wouldn't forget about a respected representative when she said the special needs of a disabled person and children with developmental difficulties. I'm here for the second year of my second year of listening to the same thing. If I stay away, I'll listen to four, etc. For years, I propose to the Health Committee, which I think the most parent board would be related to this issue to send a letter from television, etc. To the media, I don't know if it's ever been done, it would have been my proposal here concrete because really believe me, it stabs me every time I hear that expression, and it's really gone too far. That's the first one. Secondly, as far as politics is concerned, if there's anyone here that's going to lead the policy, I'm going to be very sorry because this is really something that's real and what it is. There's no politics here. So I would actually go on the report and I would say that this report is like last year that I had a chance to study a very high-quality report and a report that is really, really and realistic. I've been in this business for many years, and I'm really responsible for it. And I'd say she's the D.A.'s office, and now she's going to mark her first five years of work. Yeah, in those five years they've been visible, they've been spotted, I'm talking like a waist, a big, big shift. But, of course, the Attorney General's office is, as has been heard from these discussions so far, which I agree with, there's not much he can do. At least he did a lot in this, we said, here's a colleague who just said that it has to be multidisciplinary, that it can't be one or two ministries competent, but every ministry, every law, every regulation that's been passed, it has to be, and regulations, or the adoption of new draft laws must be included and the attorney's office for people with disabilities. If they have any objections, they don't. But they must be available to see. Here we are now in, the bill of social care and the bill of law, the Family Law. Here's our chance, really still of course it's still, I think it'll be in two readings of an opportunity to see. I know that the D.A.'s office as well as the esteemed attorney as well as every time they actively engage in bringing it up. I know all the remarks that are, and I'll follow. And indeed, this is our chance to see, let's see, right here and here on the spot at lawmaking as much as these remarks were strictly respected. So, I said, and the convention is the fifth year of application, but there is still no satisfactory level of awareness that it is a binding international document which the Republic of Croatia but requires its legislation to comply with the provisions and principles of the convention. I said despite certain positive shifts through the application of some laws but some of the actions of certain state bodies and institutions that reflect, to a lesser or greater extent, human rights requirements, true equality. Still in many areas and in many... take the view that disability is equal to incompetence and that disability is a personal problem of an individual rather than a result of failure, of a social community, to include all persons and all mechanisms and all institutions in order to truly create our country of equal opportunities for all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are in the city of Zagreb about parking places specifically, there have been very often abuses, you know that very well. You know what we wrote? We wrote the charts if you want my place take my disability. That's what Zagreb did, it's a small thing, but let's go from small things if we can't go from big to small. So, the 2012 Attorney General's Report can be assessed as very high-quality, highly focused on the basic purpose of the office's activities, representation and monitoring of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. I will remind you that 518 thousand, we are also talking about 520 thousand people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia who are still due to often uncompliant legal regulations that regulate different systems do not exercise their rights in a uniform manner. One of the problems is the fact that the rights of disabled persons are governed by different regulations whose provisions are not often harmonised with each other. It is therefore the task of the competent ministries and other institutions, as I said at the outset, to work together and with the representatives of the attorney’s office and persons with disabilities as quickly as possible to find the most high-quality solution in order to enable them to quickly, faster and more effectively ensure and implement legal regulations, i.e. the rights that people with disabilities achieve. A question regulated by laws, but I'm not going to say that they all have opportunities to make them happen. In line with modern trends in policy-taking against the situation of children with developmental difficulties and people with disabilities, our country should implement an exclusive social model that implies an assessment of the support system that is terribly important in all areas that society must ensure that people with disabilities have equal opportunities in society. The situation of children with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia has recently seen improvement but not enough. And it's not in all areas that it's the same. Comparing some of the country's regions, which is still there, there is a huge disproportionate proportion in the area of ensuring certain rights. Some local communities should do much more when it comes to accessibility, mobility and universal design. The right to inclusive education is a prerequisite for the full and healthy development of each child, and so is the child, of course, with developmental difficulties. In practice, depending on the particular region, we find a number of problems that make it impossible for education to do so. The reasons are different but we have a lack of professional staff, individual institutions at all levels and an insufficient education of experts. A study of the report shows that in almost all areas of life, people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties face a number of problems and obstacles. That's how it was the previous year, so hopefully it won't go on like that in the coming years. I will repeat again, the high, high-ranking attorney's office in the process of passing the Social Care Act that has been up to now every time. And I also know that the great engagement in the adoption of these new laws is in accordance with the Convention, in accordance with the National Strategy for Equalisation of Equality for Persons with Disabilities, which was adopted from 2007 to 2015. And what I said at the beginning, I expect that we'll be introduced through the bill how specific the objections are right now and here are accepted by the Attorney General's office. In line with the work of the Ombudsman in 2012, there were 1625 cases, initiatives, consultations for the protection of rights, provision and promotion of the right of interest of persons with disabilities. In accordance with the Law on the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities, the Ombudsman has the right to... to the premises and to see where persons with disabilities live, work, operate, where they are located and under what conditions they are all under. So the D.A. made tours to 11 counties and there are 29 tours here, and I'm convinced that these tours are more because by the way, I know very well at least that much. I think the D.A. agrees with this finding of mine. Therefore, it was given in the report and then shown by county, case-by-case actions, according to the structure of the applicant. If we compare 2010 to 2011, in 2012, and it has been observed that the largest number of applicants refers precisely to persons with disabilities, then they have associations that are involved in the application process and who are interested. It's an interesting display in areas where the largest number of complaints are from the area, which is ultimately in the opening statement of the attorney and said, it's health care, it's education and education but it's social protection 122. This refers primarily to material rights, custody, personal assistant rights, housing, housing, employment, and these are the areas that we have seen through the report that are actually shown individually and where we really see that there are other major problems left. In the area of pension insurance, persons with disabilities are most likely to complain about the outcome of the proceedings in order to exercise the right to a disability pension. The activities of the office are further related to the fundamental rights of equalising opportunities, which is accessibility, mobility, housing, participation in political and public life, discrimination based on disability and then the rights that we have said health insurance, health care, social rights, etc. I would only point out here that here is the attorney general's initiative, when we talk about the right to vote, it is in the Law on Election Register that allows people to vote and this time for the first time in history, if I may say so, for people with intellectual, mental difficulties. So it's also also really not, there was an association involved, there was GONG involved and maybe someone else, but the initiative went from the Attorney's Office. When we talk about these very important areas, which is actually about mobility, about accessibility. We know today that accessibility isn't what it's supposed to be, that we still have a lot of barriers, we know that the regulations are passed, that every new building that's built has to be. We also know that there are sanctions, whether or not those sanctions are carried out, that surveillance in this area is carried out I don't know, I ask. I'm afraid neither the lawyer because I don't know, a colleague pointed out that feedback has often and does not. When we talk about housing, the problem is also big, housing is very important for each of us, each citizen is also important for our disabled people and children with disabilities. They must still be adapted to space, they must have other conditions and must have resources that are very often, especially in this situation and always insufficient and there is also a need for local community support, and it would also always be the laws that would somehow still bring it. Mobility. An important area is precisely the area of mobility where the office works very much. I'll say the example, it says that, but I know a lot, but let's say here's Jadrolini. A disabled person was very difficult to get into, no island could or could not come, and then the office wrote, so Jadrolinija responded, and something probably happened in the area. Railway transport, very important road traffic and it is very important for drivers, i.e. laying down for drivers because the personal vehicle of each person with disabilities is very important, but also in support that this personal vehicle via associations or in any other way helps to buy and provide. Then, on the prevention of discrimination in this area, I think it is too much to say at all except that there have been 37 complaints that I think are indeed the areas of discrimination. There's a pretty big one. Unfortunately, unfortunately, but we have a report, so now I'm afraid my time isn't going away so if I don't say what I'd like to say, I'd like to say everything I've just made myself aware of. The area of health, health care, the D.A. also said in the introduction. I'd like to look back at the spin centres here. It went nicely, the commission was appointed, it was hoped we were near the end. This commission is gone, a new commission has been appointed, and I have not heard of it, so I will ask the esteemed lawyer to give us a concrete answer to what is going on here now. I really don't know. Then bound rights to orthopedic aids, for example. which are very important and important. The amendment of the orthopaedic aid Regulation also did not introduce everything necessary, so there is a lot, so it is not respected for me again the proposals and needs of the Advocate's Office. We heard all the obstacles that exist here, but I would say only additionally because I have a lot of things that I do not want to repeat, but I would like to point out that at the level of Croatia, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is a recommendation that rules be adopted as soon as possible to regulate the schooling of students with development difficulties, in order to deal with the issue of support forms, scope, intensity and intensity of use, of course, with the education of children and highly educated. Higher education too
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53413	Bring your colleagues to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53414	Then I must forgive her for saying autism is a problem that lasts for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53415	You've got replicas, so you'll continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53416	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53417	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53418	Dear Madam President of the Parliament, my colleague Fortuna generally agrees with everything you've said. My replica would be on your eloquence and other speakers, but here's the younger one I missed, so you're like a one-generation representative who should have been particularly understanding what this is about and that's what I'm replicating to you. People with disabilities have enough sweet words. They are looking for, this population is looking for concrete investments in their well-being. In the Split hospital for two mandates, about a dozen sanitary nodes for disabled people have been built. I'm asking this government to continue in the Split hospital this process so it can be completed in the entire hospital. And ask how many have been done over the past year and a half, and is that continued? Tell your government and my government not to take the money for it but to give even more money because I here feel free to say not fearing possible sanctions to take 500 million kunas from working unnecessary ideological world-based associations and to give those 500 million kunas for these specific jobs for access routes, for sanitary nodes and for this, for that. Let's go, let the government propose that we all raise our hands. You're going to have 500 million Ms. Attorney General and we're going to solve almost everything but a lot of this. We can't just attack the state over the past year because a lot has been done. I only know in Split. So don't keep attacking the state without doing anything. Everyone at the traffic lights approaches, all the sound signals on the traffic lights, in Split we built a colleague Devčić said the beach elevator. There's been a lot of work done in hospitals in all health institutions. We can't make the whole country understand financially now. So you need to tell the government to give the money, and this government took the money.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53419	Thank you very much. Replication response, Vishnya Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53420	Thank you very much. An esteemed colleague if we say the way it really is, then that's sweet talk. No, I was very real and real and not sweet-talking. And I'd like to add what I've also wanted to say that I also disagree and ask that in this year's budget funds related to co-financing of persons with disabilities remain in the amount of who they were before, because in the meantime half over 50% of those funds were taken away, I'm sorry, and I don't think those categories can be saved either. They're not associations, I don't underestimate any associations, but you can't really save that. Only funds related to deinstitutionalisation remained in the same amount. Here I really appeal to the budget for the following year that the funds for the persons with disabilities associations remain in the same amount. I hope I'm not cute right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53421	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53422	Dear fellow Fortuna, it's hard for you to teach this work that you've been doing your whole life and where you're very professional at it and I agree with your debate and I don't understand that you've been sweet-talking, you've warned about problems, real problems in this area. At first, you said you should send a direct message to the media. I fully agree with you in order to use the words correctly when people with disabilities and all others are concerned. However, as I asked the media last night, i.e. journalists for more attention to the problems facing the Ombudsman, I am sending from this place an appeal to fellow journalists, editors, paper owners, electronic media, portals that by doing so daily, society is sensitizing to the problems of people with disabilities but not in a way that would cause compassion but in a way that makes them equal. They should be and we're all fighting for equality. Therefore, another colleague especially HRT who we haven't seen in days is not doing this because colleagues from the ruling coalition understand HRT does not do its basic work. If she depended on it, their concession would be taken away. There's no show on HRT that's supposed to be but we've got soaps, and today. Why? Because they buy programs and get pink under the table. We need to have shows where all segments of society can find their own program. Instead, however, HRT competes with commercial televisions, with commercial programmes. And 2 percent ratings, 3% for such individuals is high ratings. That's why we pay the subscription. We don't pay the subscription so some editors or
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53423	Thank you. Replication response, Vishnya Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53424	I agree with everything the honourable representative has said. I'd just add, thank you for not being sweet-talking, then I'd add in real tone exactly the Center for Autism is something that for years, I won't say for 10 years, but it hasn't been solved for years. The solution started and got rid of but I say it is not good for people to stay together for 21 years in education their whole life after 21 years in the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. He should go to the Ministry of Social Policy's jurisdiction. It is not good that only Zagreb is the centre, now Split has opened. We said that it must be accessible to the place of residence and these are areas where we must now urgently start autism at the level of Croatia and not Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53425	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party, colleague Nancy Tyreli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53426	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Respected attorneys with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is another report in front of us that we can only conclude one thing if there was no change in negative trends that has been systematically alerted from year to year and we could ask one question about how many years in Croatia we declared a moratorium to do anything that would bring good to people with disabilities. We've heard today about the report and the analysis of what's written inside, and I might just focus on two, three important things that I'd like to talk about publicly, and whenever we talk about people with disabilities, I'm going to use two sentences to conclude the attorney's report that says that removing obstacles that people with disabilities put in the same legal position with people without disabilities are not just obstacles to architectural nature. Removing obstacles is not an expression of goodwill and a moral obligation to provide assistance to weaker and more vulnerable people, but it is a legally prescribed duty and obligation to sanction disrespect. Here we come to a fundamental problem for people with disabilities, I think that every person with disabilities needs both a ramp and a parking space and all of those technical things that make it easier for her daily life but I also think that people with disabilities are the most disturbed and painful failure to comply with the laws that have been passed in this House of Commons just to make it easier for them and for them to have the right to compensation for which they have the right to be disabled. Today the same colleague has already stated that we have laws, regulations, institutions but unfortunately nothing works. I'm taking the opportunity to ask the D.A. and then tell us if anyone in any institution was responsible for doing something by law? I don't think so, and that's our main problem. So those who respond, those who pay in the end line are always citizens, or in this case persons with disabilities. Every iniquities cost them and never the one who should've done it. We mention associations and problems that associations have, associations dealing with people with disabilities and we read the government's opinion on the lawyer's report and to be honest with the government's opinion, I didn't quite understand whether money from the ministry's position was paid to associations or not, but I believe associations that warn the problem. The Social Care Act has taken over the policy that persons with disabilities associations are foreseen as social service providers for disabled persons and children with developmental disabilities. So in most cases, these associations are the only refuges, the only assistance to disabled people. In most cases, there are people who volunteer in these organizations, who play by chance or by parents or marriage mates or something else, and they are there because they themselves have a disabled person in their family. These people are trying to make the most of any funds where they can get any money so that this association can function with the sole purpose that people with disabilities have the necessary care and care. We come up with a problem where associations apply certain projects in three years. For the first year, the money is still earned, the ministry takes the obligation to co-finance such a project, and at some point the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, which should continue to co-finance that what we have started and lasts, has not paid off the dues, which explains: "The obligations have brought us more than real opportunities in the ministry's position." It is for me personally such an explanation of the restoring ministry whose main goal and concern is precisely the concern of people with disabilities terrified and here from this payphone I call on the Minister of Resort and all those who work in this ministry not to really allow themselves such an easy explanation in which they will simply say that our obligations are more than real opportunities. Because the fact is that any person with disabilities as well as most citizens of the Republic of Croatia are more than real opportunities but unfortunately none of these persons and of these citizens justify such an explanation in front of anything. So more sensitivity and more responsibility. By joining the EU, the minister of social policy and youth said that associations will have to worry from now on about how they will be financed, how they will find the money. And it is good that associations have certain visions, missions, goals that they want to achieve for the well-being of people who are in those associations especially of persons with disabilities. But I also ask the same question all the time, did we in the Republic of Croatia create a network of capable and qualified people who can make quality programs that will apply to EU projects and that these programmes throughout Europe will be so good that we can pull that money back? So it is unserious to transfer to associations dealing with people with disabilities all the funding obligations of all those persons. And it's not good and it's bad politics and it's not a good policy. And it's a policy that will lead us long-term to the fact that simple associations will not have a single lip, which means that both those persons who in these associations and only get some help will be left with nothing. In this regard, we have a situation for children with developmental difficulties. These children get a certain disability, and here we once again appeal to the Ombudsman for the personal disability intended to involve the independent life of the community to be dependent solely on the severity of disability and not on the income of the family. Because we ask this person with disabilities if he lives in a poor family how much harder it is than that person with a disability living in a richer family. We don't talk about families, we don't take care of this family case, we take care of people with disabilities. And it would be fair to establish that each person is disabled and that a person gets a disability for that particular disability. As far as kids are concerned. All the time we've been talking about how these kids should be socialized, but in this case, I'm going to mention children with extraordinary developmental difficulties that need rehabilitation. And that child, along with the fact that an hour or two at some rehabilitation, the Ministry of Social Policy no longer knows his disability in the full amount that belongs to him than he does in that hour or two how much he was in rehab reduces and pays the difference to that centre where he spent that rehabilitation. Now on the other hand, we have a child who goes to a normal school, falls on the playground, hurts his leg, and this child needs some physical therapy. And that kid that hurt that leg goes to that physical therapy. However, no one asks that child to pay for that physical therapy. But a child with, who has a certain disability and who gets a personal disability we have the right to take a certain amount to charge him an hour or two rehabilitations somewhere for that same child. And these are terrible situations that I think every person with disabilities and every parent who has such a child and who can't be employed because his child needs his care 24 hours a day, when that disability is reduced by an hour or two as much as he was in rehab, I think it's the problem that hurts the most, which bothers him the most, and that every person of these one-fifths, we have in Croatia a fifth of people with disabilities and that each of those 500 and so many thousands is asked why, why and why is this our Croatian society so insatiable to us. And that's why we're funny, almost ridiculous, analyzing these reports here in the Parliament year after year where the attorneys keep warning over and over again what's wrong, calling out the ministries, calling out the responsible people, calling out the institutions, pointing out the failures and problems, that year after year we're just reading, we're not doing anything, we're almost doing anything, because now we're reading this report and we realize that a great deal of it has been done thanks to the attorney's office, and let's not forget that only a few months ago we've been thinking that we're putting all the defenses together so that we all of them are together and that we don't have these defenses who are fighting for their own, that niche of Croatian citizens for whom they give maximum. This year we see that the lawyer has done about 1600 and so many cases, opened, it's an extremely, extremely large item, it's an extremely big job and I only appeal once again when the Resolute Ministry of Social Policy and Youth listens to the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, if someone from that ministry won't mention who, taken a little time to read the quality of this report that we have here at the Assembly today, I think it would be a lot easier for him to just pay attention to the counsel's opinions and to the recommendations that the Ombudsman gave, when from this year to the next reading of the Ombudsman's report in this House, I think only 10% of these recommendations I think we would all be happy and that we would all say to the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth have finally started to do what it is formed. Certainly the Croatian Labour Party Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53427	Replica, Vishna Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53428	Thank you very much. At first I will say that the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club will support the report because I don't know, I may not be answering again. But I'd just tell my esteemed colleague what's on, nothing's working. It's not. I don't know, I certainly didn't say, the shifts were done and that, but they weren't enough. What I said was that it would be very good for the ministries together, that there are not two ministries that are in charge here, but every ministry that an attorney's office can do as well as the Ministry of Education and Social Policy and the rest of the ministries if it sees that any developments, any suggestions or any objections are needed to do so. So to unite and make it a much wider range of systems that would cover this problem. And regarding the funds, I said, the last line should be associations of people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties in co-financing of programmes and projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53429	Nancy Tyrelli, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53430	Thank you. My colleague Fortuna, I didn't call you when I said that the laws, regulations and institutions don't work, that's what she said, she's not in the hall now, so I won't, but that's what she said on behalf of another club representative. But if we look at the situation as it is here every year if we take these reports and there's almost no year in which we can't see that those recommendations that the attorney's been making are almost not respected in most cases. I'm not saying it doesn't work, we have phenomenal examples of the local self-government unit and the regional region where we see that certain shifts and certain things have been done but it still depends, it's not good that these things happen or don't depend on that one man who's here somewhere in that community and whether he is sensitized or not sensitized to people with disabilities. We simply must not allow ourselves to depend on the goodwill of one or a few people in the municipality, in a city or in a county. After all, we have laws, and what is symptomatic is that we ourselves don't respect these laws, and that's what's scariest that can happen to us. And I agree with you when you say that associations should really be that last line of defense regarding persons with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities who should then be just another upgrade that these people have as good and as comfortable their everyday lives as possible, and as close to those who unfortunately have no established disability, they are fortunately not.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53431	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53432	Dear counterparts Tyreli, I will do the same with the last line or the last line of defense, but one other which you also mentioned when you mentioned the way of funding, and that is often heard by Mrsic and Prime Minister Milanovic that the last line of defence is the pensions of the pensioners that you fully agree to be, but also before that should be the last line of defense, are all that is prescribed by law, and what persons with disabilities should be further elected to get. And that's exactly what you said shouldn't depend on goodwill. It all turns out to be some kind of charity that shouldn't be. No one asks for anything that does not belong to it, so the worst thing to do is not get what a person should get and should be grateful that someone is in good faith to fulfill what the state guarantees with its laws. That's scary. This is seen in relation to special groups in Croatia, not only this one but all other special groups. And you say a fifth of the population, not a fifth, more than a fifth of the population, almost a quarter of the population, is almost a quarter. And before that, I'm going to get a hold of myself, I'm going to abuse myself a little bit, I think Mrs. Fortuna was talking about people with disabilities having to buy cars so they have the right to take the highway on the privileged... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's more important to us than a person's car. It's just proof that we haven't found the right way and we don't want to think about it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53433	Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53434	In principle, therefore, we agree and the saddest, truly the saddest thing of all is that whenever we do anything for those disabled people, we sort of boast about it. We're good to you now, we've made you a ramp, we've made you no idea what. It's a bad message we give these people with disabilities because no one, really no matter what status that man has, is not glad to feel like he's got some charity in terms of something. So we, as a society, have signed all possible conventions, all possible declarations, resolutions, everything that exists with our signature on all of the laws, and the law regarding persons with disabilities in this House, declared clearly and loudly that we are, that we want these persons to be equal members of Croatian society and that is what we have to respect, and which, reading these reports, unfortunately, we realize that we do not respect and simply do not do what we ourselves commit to doing. And that's the problem where, for a reason, those people with disabilities call us, and then we call out here in this example the Resort Ministries and all those who should respect what the laws say, that they finally start and do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53435	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53436	Thank you very much. Comrade Tyrelli, you have mentioned the Ministry of RES several times, so the Ministry of Social Care and in the context of action and inaction. I would say that, in the implementation of the basic documents, above all, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which we have signed, are responsible, in fact, for all ministries, so the whole government, because the Convention that binds us to all areas of life, the government must implement them as a whole. So I wouldn't say that any ministry is particularly resolute. But you also mentioned responsibility. It's very difficult in this case, but a very important question. For example, documents on the formation of the Government provide for several commissions that have been the advisory bodies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in all past mandates, these commissions have had a significant role in consulting the Government by which to go. One of these is the Committee for Persons with Disabilities. The government of the Republic of Croatia founded the commission only a month ago. Therefore, in continuity immediately after the formation of the Government, all committees should be formed, as well as the Committee for Persons with Disabilities. So here we come to a fundamental question, and then I think the answer is how we have to function. It's an extremely important body because it brings together all the departments in charge. However, it also brings together representatives of the Association of Persons with Disabilities, so those who know best what the situation on the ground is saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53437	Nancy Tyrelli, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53438	Thank you. Well, colleague Kosor, it's hard in our law forest and everything we have to determine and point out with your finger you're responsible for something, because our laws are simply so complex. But now you've mentioned yourself that only a month ago have we formed a Committee for Persons with Disabilities. Now again, the question is, who's to blame? I say it's the government's fault again, why just now, why don't I just say it a month after they start working? But why we should wait for such a commission, such a commission should wait two years. And I don't think the D.A.'s attorney for people with disabilities has reacted that we don't have a commission yet, that we don't have what we need and what the government needs. But then we come to that truth of ours, and the truth is, and every day we're more and more convinced that our government doesn't need anyone who knows. They've shown it so many times. They simply do not listen to those who know and those who can say something, and that is the most obvious example. Who knows more, who can guide more, who knows the shortest way to solve a particular problem than those who face this problem every day. And we turn out to be writing laws in most cases that will be difficult to implement in practice or almost impossible to implement in practice, but the main thing is that we've changed the law, we've written a new law, and now to whom it will bring good looks less concerned today. It's important that we have one cartoon or one plus more as a minister who's passed a new law or changed something that someone else brought before that, so I say here's the thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53439	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53440	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I wanted to look back in my replica at this part when you were talking about the government, but here's the distinguished Mrs. Kosor was just talking about this advice that's just been set up. I'd like to say when it comes to that, we've mentioned that often now and the Resort Ministry and the Government. It should be not only socially sensitive but also spiritually sensitive, but at a very high level, the government has shown that there is no sensitivity, social, or spiritual. Because I guess he really thinks that everything that's been given before and associations that refer to people with disabilities but that some of the social resources were given that it was all unnecessary to throw money into some bottomless hole, and now they've changed it. What I'm glad is that our defense attorney is anything but invisible since yesterday we spoke to the D.A.'s attorney who complained that she wasn't answering at all. She complained she wasn't in the media. What I think is commendable is that the D.A.'s attorney for people with disabilities is really visible and really very strange and that if she's so persistent, then probably for 2013, there will be some shifts. It's a shame we've been going back these two years instead of moving forward. We should all ask ourselves together, not only in the Parliament, but also in the government. What are the priorities of this government?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53441	The answer to Nancy Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53442	Comrade twilight, I don't know. I probably don't understand something in this whole story. But when we look at it like this, so we have a lawyer for people with disabilities, a person who's been implemented 24 hours a day in all those disability issues. On the other hand, we have a resolute ministry, we have a government. So what wouldn't be so logical and clever after all is to consult that attorney as they write the laws, how to pass the laws, and what can best and best be done. Our biggest problem is money, and that's what costs us all the time. But here we come to this of yours that certain ministries of thread respond to memos received from the resolute attorneys, nor respond to calls that the resolute attorneys organise. This is the case where, at the call of the Ombudsman, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth has responded to the co-financing of associations, i.e. joint projects but has not responded to the Ministry of Finance. Then the Ministry of Social Policy tells us that we no longer have money in that position and we no longer have anything to do, which means we haven't solved the problem. And then we ask the question why we don't solve the problem? Because some minister or some ministry has allowed itself not to respond at all to a lawyer's call, whether this lawyer or any other lawyer. So, we have logistics. We have a network, we have a base, we have knowledge, we have even solutions to how to solve certain problems. The problem, however, is that someone does not want to listen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53443	On behalf of Croatian National Party Representative Boris Blažekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53444	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Ms. Anka Slonješak, attorney for persons with disabilities, colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Yesterday we also discussed a report that, according to the position of the Croatian Liberal Democrats club, is second in all reports. And today we are discussing a report that must be of first importance to the HNS Club's position. The problem facing the report is a problem that must be ahead of everything that we as humans should even start to do. There is always a need for normal life in every place, and only then does everything else come to the agenda. And when discussing the budget and discussing education, culture, health, employment, security, traffic, always the first person with disabilities, then all the rest of us and everything else. Everywhere and in every place we all have the right to equal treatment, we are all the same before state institutions, except when it comes to people with disabilities they have the advantage and the right of the championship. It seems to me that I heard in the replica that someone said that we can't turn the whole of Croatia into a country for people with disabilities. According to HNS and my personal au contrastaire. We need to turn the whole of Croatia into a place for people with disabilities. Croatia is a country with a relatively high percentage of people with disabilities over 11%. In January 2013 520 thousand 437, for 2356 more than last year. All of us who are fortunately not persons with disabilities must engage with full consciousness and human conscience in the social inclusion of all our disabled citizens and fellow citizens. In its truly comprehensive and detailed report for 2012 I would say to the very quality 2012 Ombudsman for people with disabilities, among other things, the fact that people with disabilities are in increasingly difficult social conditions and rarely live in conditions of poverty. We at the HNS Club believe that such a thing is inadmissible, and this way we call on all state institutions, especially the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth... that no person with disabilities lives in conditions of poverty. For people with disabilities, funds must be found to live with dignity and meet the highest standards that the community can and must provide. According to the report, the largest number of complaints received, applications and enquiries opened as an object were in... In 2012, either in the area of social protection 122 or 21%, the next area was the area of accessibility of housing and mobility where it was handled in 66 and 11% of cases, respectively. There were 11% of cases related to the area of health care, labour and employment requirements of 63 and 10%, respectively. In 2012, the Ombudsman addressed several parents with developmental difficulties and young people with disabilities who pointed to violations of the right to inclusive education from preschool to higher education. This area was covered by 52 and 9% of complaints, respectively. There were 34 cases in the area of pension insurance. The next area is with 23 and 4% of the cases is the judiciary. In 18 complaints 3% reported violence, in 14 cases 3% were consultations in the areas of property-legal relations while in 5 complaints related to the area of sports culture and 4 in the area of international co-operation. A significant part of the work of the Advocate's Office for Persons with Disabilities refers to the consultation of parties via telephone. The activities of the Advocate's Office for Persons with Disabilities are related to the overall problem of persons with disabilities. These are health, accessibility, mobility and housing, participation in public life, education, professional rehabilitation and lifelong learning, work, employment, pension insurance, social protection, access to justice, combating discrimination, women with disabilities, international cooperation, participation in cultural life, recreation, entertainment and sport, cooperation with civil society organisations, raising awareness, proposals and obstacles to changes and complementing legal regulations in taking measures to improve the situation of persons with disabilities. In the discussion of the report, it is simply impossible to point out all the problems encountered by disabled people in all areas. We at the HNS Club decided to point out some in the hope that other individual clubs would point to other reporting problems, which concern the lives of our disabled citizens. So we at the HNS want to point out in today's debate the problems of healthcare for people with mental impairment or their treatment and rehabilitation. In persons with mental disorders, or psychosocial impairment and more than any other type of damage is present, there is a high level of Stigmatisation and prejudice. They are often considered not only completely incompetent for any interaction in society and working incompetent but also dangerous for the environment. Unlike persons with other types of damage, they did not associate themselves with civil society associations which would play a role in destigmatising and removing prejudice and seeking a higher level of law. People with mental disorders in many Croatian societies have been denied and are in a more unfavourable position than persons with other types of disability. For example, treatment of persons with this type of damage is carried out mainly at the level of hospital treatment. Because of the absence of an outpatient system of treatment, so-called Psychology in the community, services that support independent life... the lack of rehabilitation comes to multiple hospitalisations or housing in homes or social care in which they often spend their entire lives socially excluded, isolated and often completely deprived of business abilities. The aim of improving the system of protection and... was to adopt a National Strategy for the Protection of Mental Health for the period 2011 to 2016. The national health development strategy provides for the establishment of a mental health centre aimed at improving the conditions for the inclusion of persons with mental difficulties in everyday life to prevent their discrimination in society. The following measures have been adopted by means of a strategy, and according to the Health Protection Act, a network of public health services intended to establish mental health services and prevention of addiction has been adopted. Services for prevention of non-patient treatment of addiction and protection of mental health were formally established in 2009 at the County Public Health Offices in all Croatian counties but in a way that the previous Office of Prevention of Dependence was added and protection of mental health. However, in many counties, a multidisciplinary team of activities is still largely focused on preventing addiction and working with young people at risk. ... the form of treatment of persons with mental impairment in the Republic of Croatia is hospital treatment, and the system of prevention and rehabilitation that should follow after hospital treatment has not been developed. Here we set out some recommendations that mainly apply to all hospitals, improve the conditions of staying patients in the hospital, provide adequate living space per patient in a way to break the practice of placing eight persons in the same room where they cannot move in which they have no privacy, meet hospital hygiene requirements, provide patients with adequate assistance in maintaining personal hygiene to provide a nightstand next to each bed, provide space for the disposal of personal items, enable patients to dress in personal taste, enable all patients to stay daily living in the fresh air, architecturally adapt the hospital to persons with physical disabilities, enable them to employ sufficient number of professional staff, and provide them with targeted education and additional education, meet patients with their rights under the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disabilities and the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, and provide them with the consumption of these rights, bring sublaws in accordance with the law and international protection of human rights that would be guaranteed by means in order to protect them in order to protect themselves and enforce human rights. Let me say what I said yesterday for one embarrassing fact about everyone. It is a matter of sanity, accommodation, health,... the conditions of some psychiatric hospitals in Croatia. In the vast majority, they are simply inadmissible. I would like to warn you specifically about the situation at the Geriatric Department of Psychiatric Hospital in Vrapč. That department where unfortunately they go before the end of their lives... some of our moms and dads... some of our grandparents seem absolutely inadmissible. It is usually the place that should look best and should be the most orderly with the doctor of the latest generation’s equipment and should be simply a clean, pleasant, warm place. There is no such good doctor or doctor there is no such good nurse or nurse who can compensate for the embarrassing conditions in which some of our helpless fellow citizens, some of our grandfathers, grandparents, moms and dads, dwell before their last days. I appeal to the Minister of Social Care and to the Minister of Health to do everything to make this terrible situation at the Geriatric Department of the Psychiatric Hospital in Vrapec finally change. And finally, in the HNS, we believe that in the field of care for people with disabilities, there is no need to compare with anyone in the world, no statistics or other people's successes or failures. We believe that Croatia should be able to provide people with disabilities on its own and self-conscious basis, according to the highest standards and the most modern knowledge at all. The Ombudsman’s report for people with disabilities can be a really good starting point for the realization of the above. And until the last person with disabilities feels threatened, our job won't be done. And... Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities "Nothing About Us Without Us". Namely, anything related to persons with disabilities should work in cooperation with them. Only people with disabilities really know what and how to arrange their valuable unique lives. Those of us who can take care of ourselves can meet our own needs and solve our own problems, we will also cope with slightly less modern civilizational flows. Those who can't do this are our priority concerns, and it's clear primarily because of them and their needs, but it's for us to feel a little more like people ourselves. The HNS club of liberal Democrats will accept the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53445	Ana Comparić Devcic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53446	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Blažeković, you have repeatedly been pushing people with disabilities into the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth as well as the Ministry of Health several times in your presentation as well as many colleagues before you. I once again appeal to all of us here is therefore belonging to the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth as much as you and I belong. They belong to all ministries, so we need to look at the problem of people with disabilities globally. It's just like that, and the mental set of all of us, unfortunately, is still to keep pushing them into social and health care. I want to point out one more thing, the ministries are prescribing principle provisions, we need to get down below. Local self-government units should probably listen a lot more to the needs of their fellow citizens because they live there every day. The Ministry cannot prescribe what is good for some place in Slavonia or Rijeka or Split or in Dalmatia Zagora, nor are the needs and problems faced by people with disabilities in all these areas the same. So we here have to appeal to our local self-government units that I'll dare say a lot of little do here's the treasure I'll use for our fellow citizens. We all focus on the ministries it's a fact, they prescribe laws, we pass these laws and regulations but units of local self-government where these people live every day must do much, much more for these fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53447	Reply to the replica Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53448	Thank you. Thank you, colleague. I agree with you in principle. In my debate, I mentioned several things that I was thinking of all of us, when I thought of all of us, I think of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia who is not a disabled person. The biggest responsibility is to improve the situation on us politicians. There are really resolutional ministries that can do more again than we can. I don't think the situation in Croatia is tragic about the concern of people with disabilities. I think it's possible to improve the current situation. But also what I'm saying is I'm still thinking, which is that until the last person with disabilities feels threatened or that her rights can't be done. As far as local self-government units are concerned, there's nothing to discuss at all. It is clear that they are part of a state that must in its appropriate way care for citizens in their territory and by my deep conviction from the local board to the county, i.e. to the city, municipality, municipality, city or county. Personally I think this debate shows and it's already the second year in a row that we're all sensitized, all of us, from all parties, very sensitive to our fellow citizens with disabilities. But I don't think we may have encouraged all those in charge at both national and local level to do anything more to make all these problems better and more adequate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53449	On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53450	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Attorney General. Thank you very much for your extensive, detailed, precise report and for what you finally sent as a message to the representatives of the Croatian Parliament. And I believe that everyone who is here today will declare that we are, and probably this report will be accepted by consensus on these recommendations regarding the conclusions that we should make after this debate, take into account. But not only today, but when we make many other decisions from the State Budget Decision for the next year, but also through the implementation of these proposals and conclusions to the findings about what is not good and what is good that we will build it into our regulations but that we will, of course, implement them. Unfortunately, this report was submitted on 31 March of this year, and we are only discussing it today. So it happened that I was the beginning of a report where the Ombudsman concluded that on 1 July 2013, we would mark the fifth anniversary of the establishment of the lawyer's office, the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, late. However, it is still good to remember this because here is the game of the case, the game of fate probably excellently coincided that the fifth anniversary of the establishment of the office is also the day of Croatia's entry into the European Union, our membership. Therefore, nothing is an accident. I think, five years ago, when we decided to establish an attorney's office, we showed a strong will to raise standards and standards in the care of people with disabilities, we have to keep strengthening that vessel continuously. And I'm extremely proud that she's head of the Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities of Persons with Disabilities. And I have to remind myself of the debate five years ago there was no hearing everywhere that in that place or this responsible duty was chosen precisely by a person with the most difficult disability. And I'm extremely proud that we persisted, which is because there were what? Prejudice that a person with a severe disability cannot perform such a demanding duty. And I think it's precisely Mrs. Slonjak's proof that she's bringing down prejudice, bringing down prejudice not only in her head but often in political decisions, and that it was one of the better decisions that we made just as well as I remember the consensus. Surely the war is further, the Homeland War and aggression in Croatia have further sensitised all of us to address the problems of those who are different, to turn to those who demand the additional attention of society in achieving their rights that are equal to the rights of all other people. It is good to remind once again that Croatia was among the four countries that, among the four countries that also signed and ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Because many countries have signed but the ratification process has taken a long time for some. And we have our determination that everything that the Convention defines as a minimum, as a framework for minimum rights, be decided and spent in real life. And that's what we have to go back to every day. Because it was Parliament who ratified the convention and said yes, let's do this job. And we are all bound by the Convention of Ladies and Gentlemen, not by certain laws so much, bound by the Convention. And the Convention clearly states equal rights for people with disabilities and sets out a very clear framework for the exercise of these rights. What is devastating in this report is not because it would have been miswritten by the Ombudsman's office, but rather by a finding which is unfortunately true that no change in negative movements occurred in 2012. So all those negative movements we've marked over the past years are still a stumbling block in the exercise of the rights of disabled people. The special prosecutor points out, and I don't think that this was particularly the case in the current discussions on the crisis we are facing for the downturn of the economy, for increasing the number of unemployed. So I also warn you colleagues and colleagues when we pass some other laws, amendments to the law, executions, executions additionally, I will use that word, make you particularly unhappy with people with disabilities who remain without the means of living, which is what Mrs. Slonjak and the people with disabilities who are left without a job warn about. It is certain that a person with disabilities who loses his job finds it incomparably difficult to find a new one. Disrespecting the law is unfortunately a common phenomenon in Croatia, not only when it comes to people with disabilities. We are the ones who are always ready when it suits us to say that a certain law does not need to be fully respected, and we are witnesses of these days in different situations, and if we are to do so in some segments, then we need to change it and then we need to encourage amendments to the law. I will point out the example of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers where it was very clearly long ago indicated that the Championship in Public Enterprises and have Croatian defenders who applied for the competition. There are few of those who respected it, so we were in a situation where we had to cancel some of the competitions because the people who ran them, I am sure that today, too, dared not respect the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. We've been doing good projects over the past few years. One of the most important was a personal assistant for the most disabled. I am glad that the government has not given up on this project, but I also remind you of projects such as accessible Croatia because we have faced the fact that, for example, it is possible for Croatia to do so. In one city, I won't name it now, I was personally present, with the International Day of Persons with Disabilities I think some of you may have been at this event, so where we found that neither the workshop nor the orthopedic aid store is adapted in any way, that there are incredible stairs, so steps that people who don't have any difficulties can barely overcome. These are the most steps I've ever seen in my life, so it was the entrance to a store or a workshop with orthopaedic aids. So the person in the wheelchair couldn't have done without the help of three, four people, and never dreamed that he could enter a room like that at all. From unadjusted mails, banks, pension insurance services, infirmarys, health care hospitals, hospitals that I don't even speak, and I think that the funds that have been allocated over the past few years have made significant shifts, so I appeal to the Government that in the funds to be determined in the budget, we take care of that. It was about reducing funds for persons with disabilities associations. I just remind you that over the past years, every year from the state budget at different levels through various ministries from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia to finance NGOs, we have allocated about a billion and 600 million kuna annually. Equally, so about a billion 500, a billion 600 from the local level when everything was summed up. It's huge money. And I agree that in difficult times, that money should be reduced, that it should set clear criteria, that it is not linearly, that we all cut down equally, or that I appeal that for disabled associations, especially for those associations that gather the most disabled, we do not reduce those assets rather than for others in terms of which they have realised or better said that they have not been realised, and that we should strengthen them in these positions. There's been a lot of talk here about discrimination, about how there's or how there's no hearing. I remind you colleagues and colleagues that we in the Croatian Parliament made a discriminatory decision in this conference, that there was no hearing. What's this about? The law on sports, the law on sport that set these fees for the most responsible athletes and medal winners at world and Olympic games where in the case of persons with disabilities, athletes with disabilities, the abandoned category of medal winners at world championships. So we made a decision through the law, and on behalf of my club, I have tabled an amendment to accept and suggest that this possibility also applies to athletes with disabilities who won medals at world championships. It's only four people at the moment, only four such athletes and that amendment has not been accepted. Therefore, when we stand up for not saying high but normal standards, then we here in this assembly need to take care of it. At the end of the press. The media very often ignores all these problems that we are talking about in a particularly amazing way. On national televisions, we can often meet up with, I'll use the word, it's difficult, getoized by this problem, so the discussion of people with disabilities is pushed exclusively into the specialization of the show if there are any. I therefore commend, I think, with the pay phone, yesterday's show by Mrs Trbovic, which she dedicated to young people, children, families where children with the most difficult forms of disability were born, so with Down Syndrome, with autism, and that's the right way to approach the problem. So in view of that, at a time when these shows are most watched then we open up a debate like this and then the editors call if there's ever a need for one of the MPs from the government. There's an open series of problems that will stay in the air. He'll stay in the air until the next report. Yes, ma'am, Madam Vice President, it's very difficult to vote with colleagues who are just coming. So, she'll stay in the air until the next report by the Attorney General. And here, at the very end, once again, I support the conclusions that Attorney General Slonjak suggested. At the end of this debate, I suggest we accept them. They're taxing and they essentially cover all the problems that we've been talking about here. Of course we will accept this report and I believe that in the next one of the key sentences will not be that the problems we face remain the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53451	Thank you very much. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53452	Thank you very much. I'm glad Mrs. Kosor said you mentioned the Sport Act and I know who it applies to. Four people were mentioned. One's from Slavonski Brod. So, world champion at one point later on second or third place at the World Cup blind in bowling. So, Mr. Milutinović, let me put my name and last name. But when I asked your government to do so in writing, that it evaluates this success here's the last day of the current year in which you were Prime Minister, it's regulated. Thank God it's, even if it's the last day of the current year, but here's the deal. So it would be good for this Sport Act to have this assembly of parliaments in connection with such successes and results that contribute to and promotion of Croatia at the end and persons with disabilities to the Parliament take a different position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53453	Replicate response, distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53454	Thank you, dear colleague Grubisic. I've barely heard from the marbles, so I'm going to try to outsmart the marble again here are the fellow colleagues and colleagues I'd like to welcome. It's exactly what I think and what you're trying to say and what I'm trying to say right now. When it comes to good and important projects, it is important for each government to take over what the previous good has done and implement it, and it is trying to remove shortcomings and repair or better to fill the gaps.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53455	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53456	Dear colleagues Kosor, I agree with you that I need here to highlight and positive examples as you have noticed yesterday's show Daniela Trbović and Croatian TV and editors who edit this show. So it's not just Daniel. This is exactly an example of how Croatian television, which is public, national television, should react. You mentioned an interesting example, you said that in one celebration it was even pointed out that even a grocery shop is not adapted to people with disabilities. But it's the same as here in the Parliament. Declaratively, we are all Democrats and we all swear on democracy, but how many times have I been told from this pay phone how dare you say it or how dare you give us a lesson, and then this man tells me a lesson from my stage. We're often hypocritical in our own attitudes. We don't allow others what we allow ourselves. That's the example you set.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53457	Replicate response, distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53458	Yes, it's particularly bad in politics. So the standards we want to impose on others ourselves do not respect or show daily that we do not care about them. As for this show I mentioned, it was important and it was really good, and I agree with the editors who decided on such a show. She was good first of all because of people who don't know enough, and there's a lot of people who turn their heads because it's hard for them to hear what it is, what they don't want to think about at all. It is good because it helps this way, a casual way with a lot of respect, because it removes prejudice. And that's very important. Often, we are unable to move because we have a prejudice towards the other and the other, and in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53459	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, we would now stop to discuss the 2012 report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities. We would also vote on the topics of the agenda. This concludes the decision on the items of the agenda, and we are going back to the debate by the representatives' clubs on the report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities for 2012. It is up to the HDSSB representative club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Boro Grubišić, the second part of Igor Češek. Please let them go quietly, to allow a respected representative to state the club's position. Can we? We can start a discussion. I ask a few MPs and MPs to sit in the benches and make it possible for the Parliament to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53461	Here, Mr. President, I was glad to speak in front of a large number of MPs and the same again. After the vote, it is less interesting in this House of Commons, but the HDSB Club will speak and support the Attorney General's report on the work of persons with disabilities for 2012 because we believe that both the work of the Ombudsman and her struggle for rights for persons with disabilities and very brave and persistent and that she is also trying to make changes in the institutions of political authority to the public institutions that would benefit the group of people, the large groups of people she represents on the defence side. The report itself says that in the Republic of Croatia one-eighth of the population is disabled. So it's 520 grand and 437 people. Or that's exactly eight per the new 2011 census. Eight is 12.5% if you count in percent. When we compare this with the countries of the European Union or others, I would not like to provide data on other countries, some exact data in other countries, and there is no total number of people with disabilities, but from what is said about the employment of people with disabilities in other countries, I think that number is significantly smaller. We've heard a lot here today about this report, mostly positive, but what I'd like to talk about today is these absurdities and I'd say the injustices that are clear and concrete and that I would bring here. The person who sent me the documentation and letter did not know that today or this week on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament will be a report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. And I already said yesterday when a report by the attorney general said that one person from Slavonski Brod had asked for orthopedic help in the form of a scooter she had previously had, but now the need for a new and has the right to a new one, was denied by HZZO on the grounds that it was not in accordance with HZZO regulations that had unified aids and vehicles prescribed in certain cases. None of us here, none of the people in Croatia, are even genetically equal and not even twin brothers, except possibly identical, so neither any disabled with their needs is equal nor the needs of any person with disabilities are equal. And even when the scooter that is here and about the need for procurement is due to the atroglyphosis of generalism, so is the diagnosis of Latin, which is cheaper than the cart offered by HZZO for 500 kuna, so 500 kuna would save HZZO but the refusal came from both first-degree and second-degree HZZO. And clearly, in such despair, a person turned to someone who would say it here and here from the assembly benches, it was a person named Kristina Terihaj. Here's the paperwork and everything else, so I'll just figure it out. But what I really wanted to say was what the D.A. was about, which is the involvement of people with disabilities in all pores to say Croatian societies. So I've got here a rate of people with disabilities in total number of people with disabilities. Well, out of these 520 thousand people with disabilities, 10% of them were employed. Compared to other countries in Europe, e.g. employment of persons with disabilities in Austria is 52%, in Denmark 57%, in Sweden 62%, in the UK, 48%. That's kind of what I should say to the champions and those who conduct politics towards the disabled exactly as my colleague said here, according to a convention that Croatia has signed and respected. The lowest employment rate or percentage of people with disabilities compared to the total number of people with disabilities has Bulgaria with 5.3 and Romania 2.9, and immediately Croatia with 10%. These are official data that exist in the European Union and in Europe in general. The absurdities that I spoke about and that happen almost daily, and because of which our Ombudsman has 1600 people with disabilities, I would like to say complaints, submissions, applications, phone conversations and all the other forms so that people with disabilities are addressed to the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, so they are diverse and they are in all fields. Starting with what Mrs. Kosor said about the Sport Act where one blind, completely blind, so 100% disabled, bowling player, world champion in several and medal winner in several world championships cannot be adequately treated and rewarded by this sports state, the nation, however you will. When I talk about blindness or lack of visibility, I must say that the rate of full blindness and lack of visibility in the Republic of Croatia is the lowest of all fees in Europe, lower and than those not members of the European Union, e.g. BiH, Serbia, Albania, and Albania even twice. The blindness fee for blindness in blindness is lower than in Albania. In BiH, the fee is around 2000 kuna, in Croatia about 600, I think, knows a better defender. And it's sad and embarrassing. So you just have to remember, as I've talked about before about that category of people with disabilities about how they and their loved ones can't see, children, grandchildren, those who come into the world and after them will be, they'll never see them. I don't want to be pathetic, too much emotion in this spill, but we have to ask ourselves and think about these things. They say it is absurd and that if a child with special needs, with difficulties of pardon in development, so a child with developmental difficulties stays in kindergarten for more than 4 hours, so if the father is late for him in kindergarten, if it means more 20 minutes, 4 hours and 20 minutes, then he must, therefore, take his fee off from 1250 to 625 kn, is halved. Well, that's fine by me. In this report on page 17, it's exactly what HZZO treated this lady I was talking about, the lady I was talking about getting the right scooter because of a serious, really serious illness. And I think I have actually found the answer that HZZO and the commission have adhered to the amendments to the laws that have been passed or introduced in the way of exercising the right to orthopaedic aids that are unfavourable to persons, and they refer to the inability of the extraordinary approval of aid. This is exactly the application of the amendment to that legal provision. And I know from my personal experience as a surgeon that a limited amount is needed, i.e. a quantity of consumable materials such as diapers and other things, that we don't even talk about. And that's what we meet every day looking for people who come and pray to doctors, and write me that I need diapers or some other help. Well, this lady I'm talking about on this scooter has an orthopedic report right now, as the Sanjay hospital director in the boat says, clearly and decadently, saying that a scooter is needed, because a man has examined her but the commission has solved differently. Well, I think it needs to be more flexible, and mostly because it's the same car that's cheaper 500 kuna than what HZZO offers. There is no indication in the protection of the health of persons with disabilities of what was drawn out in the decision of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, which is the National Spinal Centre. So, as the Attorney General wrote, that all plans have stopped, there is no progress in achieving the rights of persons with disabilities. So there's one stalemate. It is clear that this has been caused, and I would say first of all the material state and state and society but it is also a question of the will of those who can change it mainly in local, local self-government units, regional self-government where individuals with disabilities live and exercise their rights. We like to call ourselves a social state, we like to call ourselves here even a party that has a social or omen at the head of the ruling coalition. But it seems to me that compared to some earlier years, whether this material crisis, recession or not has made us a little less social than it was two, three years ago. The other topics that are covered by this comprehensive, exhaustive report that they discussed, these topics that the other speakers before me talked about, I would not repeat myself, but I would welcome the gentleman with replicas, so I would answer them. Mostly, Madam Attorney-General, I congratulate you on this report that is exhausting, which gives us full information about the situation, so this part of our population that has 520,000, about all the problems you face as you solve them, we will support your report and you personally in the work on behalf of the HDSSB club and my personal name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53462	Thank you, Your Honor. The first replica and respected representative Ana Comparić-Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53463	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague, you said in your presentation about a large number of unemployed persons with disabilities and you mentioned a 527 thousand number of people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. I just want to say for public reasons that on March 31st 2013, there are 6692 people with disabilities who are looking for work, so they wouldn't stay in the air, so we have 520,000 unemployed people with disabilities. What I also want to point out is that today is not actually any speech at all, I support absolutely, and that is what you reminded me of when you touched the Employment Service. In fact, I remembered Minister Miranda Mrsic who was going to audit disability pensions and he absolutely has my personal support on it. Because if one pension is proved to be illegal, then it's a shame for the whole system and for all of us together. And please be careful, and this is a colleague from HDZ in her presentation, she said, "Let's keep an eye on the dates we're using." People with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. This High House must respect and promote the use of those terms that we have all agreed together that these are terms and which persons with disabilities have accepted as terms of use.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53464	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53465	Dear and dear colleagues, tell your Minister Miranda Mrsic to make sure that the Pension Insurance Fund pays 120 million non-retired pensions, but without this part of the disability. Therefore, pensions that have been leaving the deceased for ten years in some other countries, while Croatian citizens are receiving pensions. But relatives did not report in Novi Sad or Banja Luka the death of those older people. That's what you make sure of, how the Pension Insurance Fund pays 120 million non-retired pensions year after year. Tell him that and he'll save 120 million a year from it. And as for terminology, so you can, given that we've been saying things and changing the terminology, you can steal a mistake, so don't blame me. As for this table that exists here, I was saying, and you've been a little bit out of line with your ears, so it's about the rate of people with disabilities in the total number of people with disabilities. Do you understand me now? Did you listen now? Yes, it is. That rate is 10% in Croatia, so if the total number of people with disabilities is 520,000, 52,000 were employed by 52,000. And in England, the United Kingdom of the United Kingdom, Austria, Denmark, Sweden, more than 50% of the total number of people. That's what this is about. So I think you're clear now that there's no need for a replica anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53466	Thank you, too. A new replica no matter how clear this one was. Dear Representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53467	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As has already been said here about the employment of persons with disabilities and situations in Croatia. Realisingly, it will be very difficult in some future time to correct overall unemployment in the Republic of Croatia. But what can be done and helped are, in principle, an association, an association of people with disabilities. Therefore, they have certain opportunities to report on various programmes, projects and, at least, part-time employment. It will certainly not solve the employment of all persons with disabilities but I think that in some other areas other than the public sector, forcing them and forcing them in principle is very unrealistic to expect some kind of rapid improvement. But it should therefore be accepted in the Advocate's Report that the speciality of the Association of Persons with Disabilities should be respected in order to facilitate and enable them to help employment not only in the care of persons with disabilities, but also in the employment of persons with disabilities, because there are examples where here in my town in Križevci, the Association of Persons with Disabilities employs about 27 people with disabilities who help people with disabilities. And they've all provided funds from the projects they're reporting on. So there's a possibility of something being done in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53468	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53469	Thank you very much, colleague Hrg. You said it well and I agree with you, but on the pages of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities there are various suggestions and here are the conclusions and suggestions for improvement in the employment of people with disabilities. So there are five species, five conclusions and suggestions. And clearly if we stick to it, if we read it a little bit, then it would be safe, and we would listen, if we listened to it, then certainly more people with disabilities would find their jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53470	Thank you, too. A new replica and respected representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53471	Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, here you are talking about hiring a lot of disabled people, and it would be interesting to see, although the law obliges, how much we have, for example. Employees of disabled people here in the Parliament, how much do we have in the ministries? Because the law requires that we are obliged to hire people with disabilities in all institutions. So then we'd see what our relationship is, so here's what we Parliamentarians do... to encourage the first to be hired here by disabled people who can because they can do a lot of jobs here that are in the Parliament. And what's the condition of the disabled is best here and yesterday we had an article at least down at my place in Dalmatia Ante Raos this one who the president of the association said was that they were absolutely abandoned and that they didn't care. And the next problem is European funds. They do not have the means to prepare European funds projects because, here, they are being financed as being said here as an association and being assisted in various ways but these funds are insufficient, they do not have the means to prepare EU projects. It should also see what the Ministry of Regional Development or specialised agencies can do to help. So when they have some kind of plan, when they have some good project for the EU and many EU projects can be obtained for this purpose, then we take account of the next budget and predict the means to prepare EU projects, which would be very important and crucial for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53472	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53473	If a colleague, Sanader Mr. Hrg, had actually started this topic in his replica and said that associations should and should do this project, but the funds needed for projects that would run according to the EU's structural and other funds, there would be no such funds and the Ministry of Regional Development, but also clearly. And how many employees there are, so I didn't count or know which either, it's a personal matter and a private matter. I don't know how many, I'm not disabled so I don't know if it's how many disabled people there are in the Parliament. I don't know, but I know there were generals and all kinds of disabled people who were employed in the state services, so there's probably a Parliament of those. I don't know about that, really.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53474	We have exhausted the list of clubs of representatives in the Croatian Assembly for discussion on this subject. Now, on behalf of the novice, the esteemed attorney, Anka Slonjšak, will be honored.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53475	I thank the President of the Parliament. I just wanted to say a few things before you guys moved on. A lot of talk about associations, I find associations extremely important as civil society organisations that largely provide all that support for people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties especially in smaller environments, as I said where they are recognized as the only ones that should be recognised as partners by both the state and the local and regional self-government units. We very often experience that they are not recognized in that section because if we also want them to apply as you said to international funds then it is necessary to have a partnership with one of the institutions in their midst. If this support is missing, then these associations cannot even apply to some international funds without talking about the knowledge needed to write such projects. Local and regional self-government units can greatly help. There was a lot of talk about what part of the association had received, or why the funds were reduced. It must simply not be allowed to suffer from miscontrol of the spending of funds in some way by all associations. I mean, all those who give tenders to all those who decide on the means that they will be and who they will be in a mood and available have to simply recognize associations of the priorities of the association of special importance and cannot equalize associations of some who are involved in collecting certain items in equal and share equal funds, to everyone, for example. 4.5 thousand kuna, and to think that this meets the needs of people with disabilities who are citizens of equal order as other people without disabilities. As for the scooter you mentioned or the lady you were talking about, we did not find out about it by her direct complaint but rather about how we follow media articles from other backgrounds, given that as an office as well as we know we have headquarters only in Zagreb and we are really interested in being as close as possible to every person with disabilities, we follow each parent in all areas of Croatia between the other and those media articles, and then we saw this problem and exactly what you said. The problem is they don't recognize individual needs every year. If they knew to me what and how it benefited then there would be no malfeasance, no chaos, no means to go everywhere and everywhere. No one uses the same number, I'll start with diapers, no one uses the same cart or every single size, height, thickness, etc. Someone needs someone because they may be more active than a more high-quality wheelchair, someone is older and spends more in their own home, but they also have a person like the lady from Slavonski Brod who is very active, who is daily present as they say to the full lungs in life, but she also benefits from a help that is only possible and only capable of it but is not on the list of aids and automatically in that section is excluded from involvement in the community. In that sense, we have requested as an office and have referred to a revision of the regulation that has recently been amended but the complaints arrive daily and need to be re-changed in that part. As far as employment is concerned, I would just like to say that the data found at the Croatian Employment Service are data on the number of unemployed or those registered at the Croatian Employment Service. We don't have statistics on how many people with disabilities are really working. Now recently we've been working on a debate about an inclusive supplement, discussions are about various fees, various changes in rights are very current. We do not have statistical data and it is very difficult to change policy and bring some new directions and laws and sublaws that depend heavily on statistical data. So this concerns 6 thousand and something unemployed at the Croatian Employment Service is not a real number. We don't know how many people like that are. As far as terminology is concerned, I wouldn't be coming back to it just to say that the beginning of work means there somewhere in 2009 or 2010 exactly now I couldn't say for sure I just spent the education of public television and we were right there to point out specificities regarding people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties and in this segment and terminology. As far as the EU is concerned, I would like to say that we, as an office after a certain period, have realised that persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia cannot be compared to any other country in the EU. We are a separate country for ourselves and what we have both gains and something that comes we need to build on our own tailors. And in that part, we need to improve to what we are saying constantly according to the social model and the inclusive direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53476	Thank you very much. First we have replicas, then we continue with replicas. The first replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53477	Thank you very much. First, I'd have to ask the D.A.'s attorney if this was about employment, the unemployment of people with disabilities sent to me because I wasn't talking about the unemployment rate, I was talking about how much of the total number of people with disabilities was employed. So I wasn't talking about the unemployment rate at all, and my colleague mentioned it at 6 grand, so I wouldn't feel called on about this remark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53478	Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53479	Well, here's actually information for everyone. I'm not exclusively to you even though I may have watched you because you spoke in that part of employment the most as an individual but basically refers to everything purely to knowing the lack of statistics.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53480	Thank you very much. New Replicated Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53481	A very short replica actually I owe you an explanation because I previously raised a tile when Mr Grubisic spoke and even nodded your head. I owe one apology to the whole time I was talking to one-fifth of the population, one-eightth is less, so I'm sorry and nobody noticed, Nancy and I did a good count, I think we miscalculated, so I apologize. Lapsus clears.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53482	Thank you very much. Do you want to comment? No, I don't. Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate of representatives in the Croatian Parliament for 10 minutes. It's the Honorable representative of the Dunja Spoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53483	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, attorney with all co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Total number of children with disabilities included in kindergartens and other legal persons implementing preschool education programmes of the Republic of Croatia at the beginning of the pedagogical year 2012/2013. It was 4000 983 which is 3.52%. Four thousand and fifteen children were included in the system and 579 children were in special groups. Of the total number of elementary school students is 18 thousand 816, which is 5.61% of the students with difficulties. These 14 thousand 909 and 4.45%, respectively, are included in regular classrooms. This year, the results of complex and comprehensive research were published in Croatia as parents, children, i.e. the parents of the community, I apologize, care for the children of the youngest age in Croatia with a very clear message that investment in the implementation of the basic principles of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is actually investing in parenting and investing in children. Parenthood of a child with developmental difficulties is additionally demanding. Parents are faced with unfavorable expectations because they wanted and expected a child who would develop in a similar way to their other children. According to expert Lancman, 1998 quoted. On the other hand, children with developmental difficulties are being discovered sooner or later. The progress of early diagnostics should be followed by the organisation of early support that has two focusses. A child and parents. It's a natural environment. We call this support early childhood intervention. But a parent with disabilities must first be a parent, not a therapist. Among the development needs of a child in the first place is the need for unconditional acceptance. And she's the one who gets threatened by being pushed into a therapeutic role by her parents. Parents are advised that they need to practice and work with a child for hours each day and are underly motivated to develop the relationship of daily joy of life with their child. The parents of children with disabilities are overworked and regularly live under intense stress. This increases the risk of inappropriate educational behavior. This study showed that parental role requirements for parents of children with developmental difficulties, neurorisks, and chronic diseases are more burdensome than for parents of children without developmental difficulties. Although most are quite well dealt with by parental requirements, parents of children with disabilities are more often quoted as saying that sometimes or more often they cannot cope with parental requirements. The speciality of parents with developmental difficulties is that they do not want to be special. Data show that they live parenting under difficult conditions with increased stress and physical health disorders. Therefore, the approach to empowerment should be subtle because they are neither their children nor their children, but rather the circumstances in which they live and do not offer adequate support. The conclusion of research related to parents of children with developmental difficulties is that they should be recognized and respected by this particular feature and developed and offered appropriate services. It is necessary to inform them, educate them, and thus strengthen them. But that is not enough either, an example of not understanding the needs of a difficult mobile Denis, I will repeat, colleagues and colleagues, in the middle of the urban European Zagreb in the 21st century, that information and education on children with developmental difficulties and their inclusion in the system of education are also necessary to extend to children without difficulty in developing the consequences where the inclusion is directly achieved. I therefore propose that, in my report which is comprehensive, systematic and any praise in Chapter 3 of point 6 of the Education and Education, the 2012 Reports or in any future report recommending that all measures be taken to adapt to the needs of children with developmental difficulties, in particular through the use of the right to integration, professional education, teaching staff, the education of assistants and the education of accompanying experts, as well as the education of parents with developmental difficulties and children without difficulty in developing in educational groups in which children with disabilities are integrated and... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53484	Thank you, too, Your Honor. It is up to the honourable representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53485	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed attorney with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be in my debate, repeating some of the things I said and in the debate about the occupier, or her report, but again they say that repeating is the mother of knowledge, so I don't think that some things are definitely burning again. So first of all, I say we discussed yesterday, it's very good that we have an attorney who deals exclusively with the needs of people with disabilities. We have other meanings for specific defenders, but here we see the commitment of our society and this House as legislators to show special concern for certain groups in society that we hold particularly vulnerable. They are certainly children who are helpless, therefore, who need special care so that their rights are respected but there are definitely persons with disabilities. The same problems unfortunately torture people with disabilities in the report. So in every report, if we're doing some rank list, let's call it by calling it the most common problems of people with disabilities, then in each report we'll read that it's the right to social care, accessibility, housing, mobility. So it's almost without exception by unfortunately mourning, since in some segments there could be major shifts with minimal investment. So if we exclude social care, affordable housing, mobility, it's something that people who have no disability take for granted, and these are sometimes almost insurmountable obstacles for people with disabilities. So when we talk about accessibility a lot has been said, I won't be here much longer, but it is unfortunate that many public institutions have not solved this problem. We also talk about schools, so there is already the first traumatic experience for children with disabilities and it is saddening that schools become aware of this problem only when they get into the class of children, i.e. teaching children with disabilities. This should be different, it should be different the way we plan to build new schools to make these adjustments something that is meant to be. Unfortunately, these problems that people with disabilities often push them into social exclusion, so they are excluded because of the lack of understanding of the environment but also because of the objective disadvantages they have, or cannot do in a dignified, normal way, something that we do not have disability experience as something normal and daily. So we're talking about moving, we're talking about the accessibility of a particular building, like a social care building, etc. There is, for example, a problem in the White Manastir where the Centre for Social Care is working with users, so among other things, with persons with disabilities on the third floor in one building, and the building does not just have access ramp so that you can physically enter the building, but of course there is no elevator or anything that people with disabilities could use. So I was talking about exclusion, these people are due to a lack of understanding of the community and because of these shortcomings that I have now listed often socially isolated and that is what is not good and what should definitely be changed. And how to change, so I'd say, first of all, education as my colleague mentioned, so I'm also an inclusion from the earliest age in school. I think that the pain is given by our lawyer, who is the very person with disabilities and who helps to bring down prejudice that people with disabilities can't do certain things. Yesterday we discussed the phenomena of discrimination in our society and the four main categories of complaints were racial or ethnicity, skin color, national origin, gender discrimination, age, political and other beliefs. I mean, I can't swear now whether or not I'm going to say the exact information, but that the fifth person is the category by which often disability is discriminated against. What I can say is good is that it's not among the first four, but unfortunately in this upper part is unfortunately. Many emphasized the importance of an association of people with disabilities or associations dealing with people with disabilities. I absolutely agree with that because associations often jump into that vacuum that state institutions, institutions that normally care about people with disabilities cannot fill. So here we are talking about associations dealing with the transport of persons with disabilities, difficult mobile persons, their social inclusion, the creative use of their time, so creative workshops etc., etc. And besides the state, there is, of course, a great role of the local self-government units that can say in most cases, both needs and recognition, and I want to thank them, therefore, that projects of such associations value and finance. We mentioned the discussion of the Committee on Human Rights and the need to establish a register of persons with disabilities. I would say that this is not a bad idea because I think that register would make it easier for people with disabilities to apply their rights, first of all because there would be one database of people who have certain damages, about the degree of their damage and the problem, and I believe that many state institutions in solving certain problems would be easier to get to the data and thus the process would be accelerated. And here's the end so I'll definitely support this report. As my colleague Špoljar said before, it was exhaustive and methodologically well done and what I can only say is that I hope that in the next report, therefore it is neither on the attorney nor on us, but I hope that in the next report we will hear about some other problems of persons with disabilities, or that some of these will be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53486	Thank you, Your Honor. Now we're going to the replicas. Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53487	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Hajdukovic, you were talking about adapting school facilities to children with disabilities. What you probably missed, you were talking about new school facilities, so the new school facilities are adjusted and I can't get a building permit unless they've solved it. But it's a problem in old school facilities and you've located it well, but it can't be solved by the report, so it's being solved by decentralised means for the needs of primary and secondary education and we know where it exists. So if these funds are reduced then we won't be able to invest, we're going to have to deal with each other in a variety of ways, whether through some European funds, like these, and there's already been talk and about today which problems are being forced to solve this because of the schismic solution, it's not systematic. So I absolutely think we're on the same track, but it has to be systematically solved that way. As far as associations are concerned, you mentioned it nicely, definitely disabled associations complete the space that did not cover the system, but associations have a lot of work to do, unfortunately, which means that the system did not cover much. Associations are often like some dislocated administrative departments of local self-government for people with disabilities. That's the case with me at the very least as a partner. But what's more important to add and say in this debate of yours are assistants in class, when we talk about schools. So these are the assistants in class. I know there are some pilot projects, some initiatives, some action. There is also funding from various funds, but this must be resolved systematically so that we do not have discrimination on children in Croatia depending on where they live, whether they live in a village, whether they live in a city stronger, better, weaker which is more flexible. So we have to deal with it systematically.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53488	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53489	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, yeah, buddy, that's right. So, what you were saying about school buildings, older school buildings, college buildings, and so on, they really don't have that problem solved. But you also have a problem that happens to you when you do, it means building apartment buildings. They get a location permit, they get a building permit, they get all the necessary permits, they have a fixed ramp for difficult mobile persons, and when the inspections go, they move that ramp away and they take it to their next facility where they need it to re-enter that permit. That's what the problem is. In this case, so at school and the investor is a state, so come on, thank God a little bit more orderly. So it doesn't work like that. Of course the funds are always a problem. Again, we do not repeat ourselves in the situation we live in and the economic situation Croatia is in. But the EU funds are definitely my solution. Of course, they condition some other problems again, but unfortunately these problems do not exist only in this segment when we talk about European funds but also slightly wider. So, if we could better prepare for them, we definitely did. And you were talking about the system and its shortcomings. We'll agree there's a lot of them. But that's why, among other things, there's a defense attorney here to show us his recommendations to us as a legislator where we can improve this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53490	A new replica and respected representative of the Vesna Railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53491	I thank my colleague, Domagou, who mentioned local self-government. He must know that indeed some local self-governments do much like the town of Koprivnica. Mrs. Slonjšak knows of certain cases. The town of Koprivnica as a local self-government also received an employer's award for the employment of disabled people. Also, the town of Koprivnica has built an elevator and every street that is done over and over again is designed to adapt to the disabled. Our library and reading room received a series of awards especially for blind and undersighted persons and seems a lot. But it really has to be on local self-government, not in the state. Because local self-government knows what needs are in a particular city, and in collaboration with the state, it gives initiatives. And what's more important to say, our associations are really the ones who run extraordinary projects and together with the local community can be done a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53492	Thank you very much. Congratulations to the town of Koprivnica. And it is up to the honourable representative Marijan Skvaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53493	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the esteemed attorneys with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here too, here... wanted to highlight in his debate the necessity of cooperation primarily cities and municipalities, the county with persons with disabilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, it is a real task for all of us to participate in promoting disability as a human right, especially through the application of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to create a prerequisite for equating the opportunities of persons with disabilities and improving the quality of life of persons with disabilities. Once again, the task is to all of us, but in this case, the person with disabilities has a home somewhere, his house, and really the first aid he asked his family, his friends, his neighbors, but then after that, he really asks the mayor for advice and help. It's basic. I can tell from experience. And we're the ones who have to find the means. And we don't see it as a commitment, a legal obligation, but what we really do to our citizens, our fellow citizens and our friends, and we also have to help our family. And here I would also like to highlight this report is indeed every praise, methodologically well done, and indeed during that period you have defined first and foremost in this report that it has acted in 1625 cases and these were mostly complaints, complaints or requests. But I think it would be good in that report in the future to give examples of good practice, that there is praise. There are certainly many of them in each part, that it must also be pointed out. Also when we define what and how to treat people with disabilities I would quote that in general what the definition is and that is the definition of disability is to limit the ability to perform some physical activity or psychological function of an appropriate age and refers to the abilities that are generally accepted as essential ingredients of everyday life. There are two differences defined, what I would like to point out is, above all, within the framework of physical activities and psychological functions. And when we look at how to help people with disabilities, we can say, one emphasis is to help them in the first and foremost accessibility of housing and mobility, and that was mostly the activities of you as attorneys. And there is also a great role for us in cities, municipalities, counties that my already respected colleagues have said that indeed the regulations that have been passed with the definition of mobility and responsibility for this and that they carry a technical profession, designers, performers, supervisory engineers, also arrange for the issue of works for construction. But it all depends on people again. If we have a sensitivity for it and I don't need rules, we'll see what needs to be done and we'll do it for the good part. Here is an example of my city, the town of Lepoglav because we have indeed done a lot again in that part with the signing of the Charter of Access to Disabilities. Here I can also say that when we were building the House of Culture in the town of Lepoglav, which we received from the EU funds, we first stressed that indeed such persons, persons with disabilities, have an adequate approach. We were supposed to do that part, it was 2009, it wasn't the law yet on the access of people with disabilities. But we're done first of all that.../The speaker doesn't understand. One special department that has an elevator, that has a sanitary node and that really all those manifestations that are defined must also be for the benefit of people with disabilities. Not to mention what I said about kindergartens, elementary schools, other institutions, and above all, through associations, we asked what needs they were. They know best what to do and should simply apply it. Already speaking of associations it's also my maybe one request, it happens that many associations, above all, who are involved in part of a disabled person, have too many and too many. Unfortunately for me, when I open an e-mail in the morning, I am busy for at least 10, 20 requests from associations, not just my county area, but all of Croatia with requests for assistance. Local administrations can't do that, but we're still the most involved in our local territory, but wherever we can make decisions we need to help and help. But maybe we should really coordinate those associations. We know that there is a Law on Associations, three people who have a common interest can form an association that no one can forbid them. But what I have to say, too, now they can't get the funds they said themselves that all individually regardless of the plan and the program. The plan and the programme is the basis and the basis of this then we can indeed, at local level, and help with the active activity and benefits of such persons. And there is a good example that here in our county we have an association of people with disabilities that unites 5 municipalities and 2 other cities, along with Ivanec... And that's where we can really make a lot of contributions, rather than each of them having a special association that has 3 to 4 members. [[The speaker is not understood because of the speedy reading.]] Then together we can also finance the vehicle they need, together we can finance workshops, lectures, sports activities and many other things that can help us specifically. It's the relationship that every colleague of mine in that part of the budget is now... Not to look at it as a cost, but it is indeed an investment in people who need it and who we can certainly help in that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the second part of what I said to that physical part, it can be helped to make sure that indeed every person with disabilities has to have the right to health insurance, health care. I would especially like to mention the right to education and education from the beginning. That's what makes a man human. That he could go to school, be educated, and then he could certainly help himself not only but the general community. And on that part, we have to help them. What you said at both primary school and university and higher education institute directly... it should if nothing else in this society for such persons it should be a rule. Of course, if he's capable of attending that part. There are no other criteria than direct enrolment. Unfortunately, we have many things that we define, and we don't put a weight here. That should be quite a weight, in my opinion. On the other hand, employment and work. After education and employment, employment is important. And there as cities and municipalities what we said... is now a person with disabilities at HZZO. We don't know the exact number, someone logs in, someone doesn't. But what cities and municipalities can do and what is an example of us and in my example of public works. We really took all the people we could from the Stock Exchange and we found an adequate job for them. This is quite the example we have seen not only a good example to come up with some of the resources for life but it is very important that socialization of these people be socially beneficial, that they work together with us. And here's every time you always create all the people that are possible for them we find an adequate job within these works. And unfortunately in society it is not possible, what we had previously had protection workshops for the work of disabled people where in Slovenia here is where we... the area it very well works. We have an example of very good practice where, for example, in the city... one such company employs several hundred people with disabilities. It's a high-tech level and where indeed... one such experience can be passed on to our part. And since it's all expensive in the end, we all justify ourselves, I'm sorry I still forgot this part that I would especially mention is for autism, for children with autism. We really need to be sensitized here and find, above all, an institution that will deal with them. And the biggest problem you pointed out in your report while parents are alive for such children is good, and what about later? There shouldn't be any questions. Indeed, for each child with autism later in a particular centre or establishment there would have to be capacity. No, but he should be tasking our government and us as parliamentary agents to get rid of it. When we talk about all this, here we end up justifying ourselves, and there's no money. And he'll never be there. He's never been there. It's just that it depends on whether or not we define any priorities. What I have said from my example of the city is that home of culture, most of which are really used by people with disabilities, we have made from the EU Fund. We got a million euros for that part. It can be, so there are examples of good practice and we do have a ministry that hears about it... EU funds. It can be applied and used accordingly. It's just up to us whether we know it or not, and we need to ask you about it and of course you know it. And here I am begging for cooperation and personal, and I have that experience to pass on to a higher level. And speaking of finances, first of all, you're being commended. When we look at the financial report from many committees, when you see how the funds you have received and not big, you behave rationally, then it means talking about you and all of your associates that with little resources can be done very much. The execution of 28% and when all that includes expenses... and equipment. So we can't once again see that it's money and expenses, but it's still people ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53494	Thank you very much. It's time for the esteemed representative of Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53495	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Ombudsman for people with disabilities with associates. Here's everyone already said, exhausted and pulled numbers, differential blood count. We know a lot of what you told us yourself in your report. I want to say a few of my impressions in the end. The esteemed attorneys this report of yours can keep us a little sad at best, although I would like to believe that the situation or trends in removing problems for the integration of people with disabilities will nevertheless be removed and changed by the proactive action of society as a whole. One of the most significant indicators of a developed civilised society is the care of people with special needs. Such persons with a lower or higher degree of disability cannot achieve results, meet the criteria imposed by a modern man who by the development of science and techniques, medicine, communication so isolated and became powerful that everything less makes sense to those who have some specific needs. In a world where it is ideal to have and not to be, to participate but also to win, to live and enjoy persons with disabilities find it difficult to fight for their rights as much as possible to achieve their human dignity and equal place with other members of society. As a result of the increase in awareness that persons with disabilities are equal persons of society in developed societies have started to appear more for them and to provide conditions for equal participation in social events. I believe we're still going that way. Sometimes it's Sisif's job but it's necessary, it's mandatory and it reflects the civil values and human rights of people with disabilities. In the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in UN Resolution 3447 of '75. The definition of "The persons with disabilities are all those who, due to natural or acquired damage, are unable to provide themselves with their own strength or at least in part with a suitable position at work in calling and society". In general, these are persons who, because of sickness, accident or poor living conditions, are so altered that they are no longer able to engage in all forms of everyday life, access to a whole range of services and opportunities available to their citizens and thus condition their handicap, restrict them in equal participation in the life of the community. Definitions and classifications shall not have an effect on the separation of persons with special needs from society or indifference in rehabilitation and integration, but shall help them to participate fully in society. The quality of life is a complex concept that is interpreted differently. It includes a series of objective and subjective factors, meeting needs and self-evaluation of individuals. We would all agree that the quality of life is a significant aspect of individual existence. The examples from a study conducted with students are just like this: "The quality of life is the truth that opens a man's eyes. The truth that frees him from slavery, rules, prejudice, indifference and wealth, the truth that gives him life and enables him to grow freely. Quality is this relationship to itself and to the environment in which the individual is located. It's the ability to accept what life provides, it's harmony and harmony of soul and body. If I say I have a quality life, it means it's fulfilled, it has some purpose and purpose." If there's a goal in life, and we're getting closer to it every day, then it's a quality of life. And I want to believe that, and I sincerely hope for all of us especially for people with disabilities. Care for 520 thousand 437 people with disabilities in Croatia, so I don't know, count 11, 12% as much as there is, but nobody knows how many there will be because everyone can wait. But all those who can do so in the future are obligations, responsibilities, and pride that we are society as much as ready to provide and make every effort to take care of these members in a way that creates conditions for them to live on their own or on their own. This was a matter of difficulties or discrimination in achieving the rights with special needs in health, education, pre-school education, sport, social rights, pension rights or employment rights, defenders, public space adaptation, institutions as well as all other segments of life society must ensure and have a sensitivity and responsibility for respecting human rights and the needs of members of the community in order for the disabled to have opportunities in that society. Previous speakers pointed to the sea details and difficulties for people with special needs and whenever you click on the Internet whenever you take a brochure or only your reports can easily come up with basic data. But I think you'll agree with me when I say that all the strategies are all the laws that are mostly good, so the declarations and other documents are insufficient if the sensitivity in their implementation doesn't lead to a level within which these members of our community will have enough money in the budget. So from what I understand last year there were about 3.1 million here somewhere to ensure the conditions of integration of these people. It's a little, not enough, it should be at everyone's level but it's as much as this country at one point could give its opportunity. But the fact that we can all do more together and therefore there are examples of good practice. But all of us should be more involved in solving these problems in a way that is not only declarative but also by obligation. So in order to ensure the conditions of integration of these persons, I hope and believe that more money will be provided and that this social area must be invested much more than has been invested so far. I even believe that neither the Commission for Persons with Disabilities who have not been established so far nor the operational plan of a national strategy for equalising the opportunities of persons and the report on the implementation of a national strategy will significantly change problems unless the way in which all the standards governing this area are applied are changed. It can't be a matter of good faith, and we'll be easy. Your report seems to me written with a high dose of courtesy and perhaps you haven't shown all the truth, all the problems in what they really are. It is certainly necessary for society institutions to be more intensively involved in the obligation to address these problems at all levels, national, regional and local, either through integration, i.e. the employment of persons with disabilities, either through investments, through budgetary means, or through investment assistance through the exploitation of European Union funds. Of course, investment is most important in this respect, which should be seen in the budgets of the state, the county and local self-government. In doing so, it is necessary to find opportunities to open budgetary opportunities for increased flow of funds to units of local self-government, of course, with a purpose of investing in programmes for the provision of conditions for disabled persons. I have a feeling and that's about it because that's the example from my unit of local self-government where I come from that most of the time they're still dealing with this association. And that's good. That's good, that's good, but it's not enough, you should actually deal with public institutions. More, of course. I'm not saying they don't work because associations also have the support of public institutions, I have such an example of my association, it's a trogial TOMS association that covers the entire area. Which I can say with pride and pleasure that they work very well. And here they are recently the same for the care of, or opening, children with developmental difficulties, so children's smile, a kindergarten where they have just applied some 153, 154 thousand euros. So, with the help of the city, with the help of the University of Trogir. But I also know that there are other organizations that work. There are other projects I don't want to list for you right now because there's not much time. So I don't want to repeat the data from your report. That's what the predecessors did. But I want what will be fulfilled for the 2013 report to be filled with a different truth, optimistic and filled with a significant shift in solving the problem of people with special needs and I congratulate you on your perseverance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53496	Thank you, Your Honor. Does the esteemed attorney, Annka Slonjšak, want a final? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53497	Here's my thanks to the President of the Parliament. I thank you for the agents you've stayed to the end. On this occasion, before the conclusion... I would just like to go back to one of the areas that I think is very important with all these areas of course that we have mentioned and that has been going through this debate today, which is a question of monitoring the media of people with disabilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What exactly is the position of persons with disabilities in Croatian media space? It's said that what the media didn't transmit didn't even happen. People with disabilities, except for the convenient pat on the shoulder, do not exist otherwise than as an occasional object of good works. I will mention several examples that have recently occurred, or have not happened because the Croatian public has not heard of them. On September 23rd this year, a high-level meeting was held within the UN General Assembly in New York, where the world's leading statesmen, prime ministers and presidents of all UN members discussed that the issue of people with disabilities should be included in the Millennium Development Goals. At the meeting, the Minister of Foreign Affairs spoke about Croatian implementation experiences and the Convention but the Croatian public was not informed about it, although the UN wanted to focus its attention on the world's largest minority, people with disabilities whose number in the world is estimated to be one billion. Croatian media did not report on whose Croatian society continued to exclude people with disabilities from everyday life. In May of this year, Croatia visited our initiative a special UN rapporteur for people with disabilities. During his seven-day visit, he met with the Honorable President of the Parliament, the President of the Republic of Croatia, representatives of parliamentary committees, ministries and persons with disabilities and concluded that in Croatian society in general, even among people with disabilities there is no awareness of the rights of persons with disabilities as human rights or human rights culture in general. The leading Croatian media visited a senior UN official who is also a disabled person, who at the highest level advocates the rights of the world's cheese was not sufficiently media-attractive. In the beginning of October Zagreb, a conference of European network of self-prosecutors with intellectual difficulties was held this year. From 20 European countries that have shown that with support they can speak for themselves about their lives and advocate an equal approach. The media responded together, but as usually happens, it was an opportunity for the present ministers to ask about other topics while people with disabilities remained completely invisible and out of frame. Today we have a show, the only one specialized in Croatian radio television, normal life. Despite the fact that we keep saying that people with disabilities should be included in other shows and all topics should be talked about, it is very important that the Convention speaks about the issue of persons with disabilities and discuss them not only in these other shows but also that there is one or more shows to talk about and inform themselves of persons with disabilities, their parents, etc., their neighbors about issues of persons with disabilities. They don't have anywhere else to hear it if they don't hear it in some media area. In that part, I appeal to the Assembly Committee, unfortunately here is no representative but perhaps there is someone who is a member of this Assembly Media Committee to encourage that the show Normal Life really goes on in the evening with a minute that is currently but that has the possibility of a person with disabilities to participate live in the show itself. As far as the media is concerned, I would also like to say that they do not actually know how to report beyond the stereotypic frameworks of the victim to whom society gives compassion and mercy. When we organized a meeting where we showed experience of women with disabilities who despite their difficulties were doing jobs for which they were educated, we wanted to show them a different model, a picture of a person who, despite his damage, leads an active and fulfilling life. A better example of exclusion, isolation of people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties, especially in smaller areas, shows that fear of the different resulting from ignorance is a cause of prejudice. It is these prejudices that separates more than physical barriers and excludes people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. The role of the media in removing ignorance and ignorance and all their serious consequences is extremely large, important and responsible, and we cannot stress and require it, especially from the public media. Finally, I would like to say that this year as well as in previous years, somehow I always end up in a way that encourages and re-pronounces that the cooperation between the state bodies, the bodies of the unit of regional and local self-government, as well as all other stakeholders in the system concerned with persons with disabilities and who are actually not only us, but in this segment of regulation, it is important to include persons with disabilities themselves, if not involved in some decisions, but then in a way that is discussed and to listen to those recommendations that they make. We're very often here this year especially, I wouldn't touch this report, and that's why I find it terribly difficult to talk about 2012 when I know what happened in 2013. Now there are active amendments to legislation, the Law on Pension Insurance is amended, the Law on the Single Body of Art is passed, the Law on Social Care is adopted, then the Law on... the Supplement is blocked and not listed, there are at least four or five more which in all possible ways are directly persons with disabilities included and on these provisions tomorrow depends on how a person's life with disabilities will look either short-term or long-term. It is up to all of you who are able to influence that these laws are really passed in the right way, and these provisions are applicable to these little people and those big people who live in some small environments and who really don't know what's going on at a high level, especially in this part of the rights of people with disabilities. So what I would say and what I would say is actually, if we want equal society and equal opportunities then we need to take measures and actions immediately and now to apply the rules that are good, punish those who do not implement them and make society accessible and without discrimination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53498	Thank you, too. We have one replica, respected representative of Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53499	Your Honor, I've been listening to you in the room, there's a committee here, and what you've recommended is quite certain and that the board will send a proposal to HRT exactly as you've formulated it. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53500	Thank you so much for coming back.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-18-0.u53501	Thank you, too. That's why we've exhausted the list of people reported for discussion on this subject. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report when the conditions are met. Now we'll stop working at the plenary session. We schedule a meeting on Tuesday 22.10 this year at 9.30 p.m. for the plenary session and we begin the discussion of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, First Reading, PZE No. 488. Thank you very much. All good for the weekend. I'll see you Monday. Session interrupted at 13.35 p.m. We are going to the Ombudsman's 2012 report on the work of persons with disabilities. The debate on the report is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2012. A year.". Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous, with 94 votes for the proposed conclusion.
