ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56249	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. We continue the session with discussion on - a) The report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2011, b) The report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2012 has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the suggestions in the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. Introductoryly, both reports will be explained by Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56250	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, there is a report before you for both 2011 and 2012, and I will present a few points at the outset with the aim of making a comparison of exactly the trends shown over these two years. The purpose of executing prisons is to train prisoners to serve their sanctions in accordance with the law and social rules and to re-enter social life. We in the prison system have 14 prisons, 7 penitentiary, including a prison hospital, 2 educational institutions, an education center and a diagnostics center. A prison sentence of more than 6 months in criminal proceedings for men is carried out in all penitentiary rooms, and a prison sentence given to women in a Požega penitentiary. A security measure of mandatory psychiatric treatment is maintained at the prison hospital in Zagreb when it is sentenced to prison, and sick prisoners are being treated in a prison hospital. The sentence of juvenile prison shall be carried out in closed, semi-open conditions in special departments at the penitentiary in Požega while the Office for the exercise of this sentence under open conditions is established at the Penalty in Valtura. The measure of detention and incarceration, the sentence of imprisonment sentenced to 6 months and the sentence of imprisonment committed in criminal proceedings, and the sentence of prison replaced by fines is executed in prisons. We have 4 prisons, Gospić, Pula, Sibenik and Zagreb and we have special departments in place to execute prison sentences for more than 6 months. A breeding measure to be taken by courts to refer to minor perpetrators of criminal offences is carried out at the Turopolje Breeding Institute and the Požega Breeding Institute. During 2011, 18088 people who were deprived of freedom were present in the prison system of the Republic of Croatia, and their legal status was different. Therefore, these are prisoners or persons in the maintenance of the prison sentence given in criminal proceedings in the maintenance of a juvenile prison sentence or in the maintenance of an investigative prison measure. Juvenile persons, as persons in the exercise of the educational measure, shall be referred to an educational institution, punishers or persons in the maintenance of a prison sentence imposed in criminal proceedings or persons who have been replaced by a fine in prison, as well as detainees or persons who, under the Criminal Procedure Act or the Criminal Code, have a certain detention. Compared to 2010 and this data we listed increased people in the prison system by 142 persons in 2011, and during 2012 there were 16743 persons in the prison system so that the total number of prisoners who passed through the system in 2012 was lower by 1345 persons or by 7.43%. The sex ratio of prisoners is the same in 2011 and 2012. About 95% of men and about 5% of women were in the prison system. As far as elderly people are concerned, and here we consider people over 59 years of age, taking into account the weight of being in prison, the number of older people has increased by 7.5% compared to 2010. In 2011, there were 227 men and 15 women over 59 in the prison system. And on 31.12.2012, there were 206 prisoners of this age group, 194 men and 12 women in the prison system and this is 14.88% lower than 31.12.2011. However, the total number of prisoners of the elderly population in the total population of prisoners does not change significantly, and at the end of 2011, it was 4.76, and at the end of 2012. 4.34. During 2011, 33 people with disabilities were in penitentiary and prisons, while in 2012. 29 people with disabilities where we mean limited mobile persons or persons who are driven by wheelchairs and persons with sensory damage or a blind person. During 2011, there were 8038 prisoners, 44.4% of the total number of prison population in the prison system. During 2012, the prison sentence was held by 7611 prisoners or 45% of that year's total number of persons in the prison system. And here we also see a trend in reducing the number of people in the system. In the last three years, the number of people to whom the measure was imposed has dropped, and we consider that very good data. Namely, in 2010, their number was 1191, 2011 was 895, and in 2012. 767. During 2011, of the total number of prisoners in the prison system, 29.5% were in the status of detainees, i.e. prisoners in the prison, and in 2012, that percentage was lower, 23.54% of detainees compared to everyone in the system. The prisoner with the security measure given in 2011 was 704, and 2012. 1 314. These measures are mandatory psychiatric treatment, mandatory treatment of addiction, banning the exercise of professions or duties, banning the management of a motor vehicle, eviction of foreigners from the country and confiscation of objects. As far as mandatory psychiatric treatment measures are concerned, we had 2010. 183 persons, 2011. 213, and in 2012 the number returned to 183. The largest share of prisoners, i.e. the largest group in the penitentiary and prisons, were those prisoners who committed the property crime and 33.7% were in 2011 and 2012. 34.49%. Property crimes are also interesting because these crimes reduce the gender difference compared to male and female prisoners because of 34.94% for male persons and 24.52% for women compared to other crimes. As for the duration of the sentence imposed in 2011, the maximum number of prisoners was between 1 and 3 years, 1,184 men and 81 women, and the long-term prison sentence of 30 to 40 years was maintained by 39 men and 1 woman. In 2012, the largest number of male prisoners held a prison sentence of 5 to 10 years, 698 of them, and of the women was the most sentenced to a prison sentence of 1 to 2 years of 47. According to life in 2011, the highest number of prisoners was between the ages of 27 and 39, 1566 of them and 76 of them. In 2012, the same age group was the most represented from 27 to 39 years of 1 458 men and 54 women. In 2011 he was 31 minors and 2 minors, and in 2012. 62 minors and no minors. Here the notion of minors includes the person of older minors and younger minors, so also persons up to the age of 21. During 2012, 53 minors and 8 minors were referred to the training measure so that at the end of 2012, there were 76 minors and 8 minors. During 2011, the number of prisoners with long-term prison sentences increased from 2% to 3.6%. There were at the end of 2011. 39 men and 1 women, and at the end of 2012, the number increased to 42 men who support the maximum prison term of 30 to 40 years. I will now conclude with the information that 100 claims for compensation from prisoners have been received during 2011, given the conditions of accommodation, and during 2012, that number has increased to 343 requests. Here we have drawn only a few important data that have been factographically presented and based on them we will not present and draw conclusions, they are being monitored and monitored in the future as a basis for further activities of the Ministry of Justice, and we believe that they will also serve for analyses, proposals and other studies of other not only the competent ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56251	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56252	I would like to thank the honourable Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister. Here I'll start where you left off, and that's exactly the last part of the report that you're hoping to accidentally skip, but in any case, I expect we'll talk about it a little bit more. In fact, there has recently been an annual report before this House on the valid operations of the national preventive mechanism for 2012 brought by the Ombudsman. What I would particularly like to point out here is the fact that the attorney general, through the national preventive mechanism, has ordered certain measures to improve living conditions in the prison system. What is particularly concerned is the situation that, as she says, co-operation with the Ministry of Justice has been assessed very badly, not only has it not taken action on the recommendations addressed but has not delivered the requested information to the ombudsman. So this report goes to all international organisations and talks about the state of human rights and I believe that the ministry should have responded to this request by the attorney general. However, in this report, there is a certain reference to the attorney general's report, so we're going to elaborate a little bit. The Justice Department has been asked to reduce overcrowding of the prison system. It is therefore still necessary to take measures and actions aimed at reducing overcrowding whether it is to build new facilities, ensure conditions for the implementation of alternative sanctions or to comply with the Penal Code. Furthermore, the improvement of the provision of health care to persons deprived of freedoms in the prison system is spoken here, and I agree that it is necessary to consider, in agreement with the Ministry of Health, the possibility of improving the quality of health care provided to persons deprived of liberty, for example by organisational separations offered by the healthcare of the justice system in the healthcare system. Furthermore, the removal of normative deficiencies is required. Therefore, within the shortest time period, it is necessary to fully comply with the rules containing the criminal and other provisions relevant for the application of the Penal Code and to complete the harmonisation of the Law on Criminal Procedure with the decision of the Constitutional Court establishing non-constitution with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. So, as I said in this 2012 report, there is a certain reference to the report by the Ombudsman and to the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2009 and here in the report is said to be the beginning of the implementation of the prison reconstruction project in Zagreb, and the IPA TAIB in 2012, the support of the prison system is expected during 2013. The national budget for 2013 provided 600 thousand kuna for the construction of the elevator at the prison hospital in Zagreb. The implementation of these projects will fulfil the orders of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and that of the adjustment of the capacity of the Prison in Zagreb and the needs of the accommodation of investigators in accordance with the standards and of the Council of Europe and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which will not be humiliating to the prisoners as well as to the possibility and smooth movement of persons with disabilities. That's what our report says. So what is IPA TAIB 2012, 2013? The report also states "The Administration of the Prison System has been included in the IPA TAIB 2012-2013 project entitled Support for the Prison System of the Republic of Croatia with the intended funds of €4.69 million and the general objective of increasing the professional and management skills of the Administration of the Prison System and supporting the application of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in Prison Systems. The purpose of the project is to improve the infrastructure conditions and lifelong education of employees of the Department of Prison System of the Ministry of Justice, improve the environment for the purpose of rehabilitation of minors in the Turopolje Institute, and inform the Department of the Prison System of the Ministry of Justice." Here is what we need to ask ourselves is how to build up elevators in a prison hospital and improve infrastructure conditions, provide lifelong education for employees of the prison system administration, improve the living environment for the purpose of rehabilitating minors in the Turopolje Institute and informing the prison system administration will be completed by the 2008 Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the adjustment of the capacity of the prison in Zagreb. If this is the decision of the Constitutional Court, which says "It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adapt within a reasonable period of not more than five years the capacity of the Prison in Zagreb to the needs of the accommodation of persons deprived of liberty". 2008 says here. Furthermore, the 2011 report said "In order to address the situation of overcrowding the conditions and standards in the prison system and respect for the fundamental human rights of prisoners, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an action plan for improving the prison system from 2009 to 2014 and delivered it to the Croatian Assembly for adoption. Croatian Parliament adopts 13th Action Plan ... 2009 The action plan envisions the completion of the construction of a new facility for 420 prisoners in Glina, the construction of a visit building, the expansion of the kitchen capacity and the dining room of prisoners and the adaptation of a prisoner protection building. Construction of a prison building in Zagreb for 376 prisoners, construction of a new penitentiary and prison in Sibenik for 1270 prisoners. Furthermore, education of special knowledge and skills officers needed to work with prisoners." However, the 2012 report no longer mentions the construction of prisons and penitentiary in Sibenik than is said to continue to be carried out in 2012 to reduce the negative impact of overcrowding, which is characteristic of the closed conditions of maintaining prison sentences and is facilitated by increasing the diversity of treatment facilities and the number of prisoners covered by these activities, the transfer of prisoners to less conditions of execution of the prison sentence and the intensive maintenance of all areas in which prisoners reside and work. You mentioned some of the prisoner's claims for damages. So it says that every prisoner who has been illegally denied his right to compensation. So in 2011, 100 requests were received where they totalled their demand for 51 million 936 thousand kuna. And taking into account the claim for compensation from 2008 on the day of 31 December 283 prisoners, he sought the amount of 86 million kuna. It is mainly about requests for a peaceful settlement of the dispute brought to the competent national municipal state attorney's offices. During 2012, 343 claims for compensation by prisoners were filed. The most claims for compensation for the damages were lodged due to... conditions of accommodation, but it is interesting that the 2012 report does not state the amount of claim in the complaint. So in the penitentiary,... 2335 jobs were systematised on 31 December 2011, and 1597 officials were filled. [[The speaker reads too fast doesn't understand.]] Maximum security risks related to increased scope and complexity of business due to insufficient number of insurance officers, increased number of prisoners compared to capacities, lack of adequate equipment for material technical protection compared to architectural solutions, increase in the number of prisoners in public health institutions and a negative atmosphere among prisoners. Furthermore, it is said that the negative atmosphere among prisoners is due to the accommodation of a large number of inmates from different social environments with different cultural habits and different educations in a small space. The 2012 report also mentions that 2279 jobs of police insurance officers were systemised in the penitentiary, prisons and Turopolje Institute on 31 December, and 1576 insurance officers were filled. Most criminal authorities are not at the level of adequate material technical equipment and technical protection, which, with existing architectural solutions, poses a significant risk most often managed in a way that the incidents try to prevent them. Of course, the additional burden of the human factor, i.e. the involvement of insurance officers to carry out jobs and insurance, order and security in criminal bodies and educational institutions. There is no mention here of what I think is very important or that the essence of this whole problem that we are talking about is the lack of money in the prison system. The prison system ended in 2011 with a lack of income of 45 million 149 thousand 23 kuna while in 2012, the lack of income amounted to 58 million and 910 thousand kuna. But we have to ask ourselves, what a lack of income would be from previous years if most of the systematicized jobs in the judicial system were filled. Because here according to the cost structure, the cost for employees is 67.5% of the material expenditure is 32%, financial 0.10, purchase costs... 0.21, expenditure on financial assets and other expenditures 0.2%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I want to ask you a simple question in the end, I hope you will answer, and that is, do you think that in the prison system everything is okay and that nothing should be done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56253	Thank you very much. Now we'll go to the replicas of Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56254	I thank the esteemed vice president. Col. Shantek said some things on behalf of the HDZ Club, which he mentioned in the previous debate, and just when it came to the report on the national and preventive mechanism and the report on the work of the Advocate General, I would not want to constantly repeat the same untruths, i.e. the claims that have been removed. Namely, you were talking about inadequate cooperation. In fact, the attorney general herself said that the Ministry of Justice and the central office of the prison system administration had carried out inspection and that certain things had been done because of identified irregularities. And even if you look at the 2012 report on page 76 when dealing with prisoners and minors, it also says that there are irregularities in the prison in Zagreb. Therefore, all of the above is equally explained, i.e. according to the recommendations of the Advocate General, it is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56255	The answer to the replica Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56256	Dear colleagues, we've been reading the same report and the attorney general's office here and here. And I don't know what the dilemma is about. I replied here that the Ministry of Justice had therefore not responded within the time limit the attorney general asked for what she had written in her report. However, in part, she responded in the last part of this report to the Ombudsman's report. That's what I said here at the pay phone. Therefore, none of what has been sought has been realised and the problem is that. Not only isn't it realized, it's not even started. And it is not started because the 2012 report does not mention what is most important and most important, and this is not mentioned in the construction of the Sibenik Penitentiary and Prison for 1220 prisoners. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56257	Hansel Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56258	Here, thank you very much. Col. Shantek, in his debate, often touched the problems of capacity and number of prisoners. I would only mention two data relating to the capacity and number of prisoners in 2003 and 2012. In 2003 the capacity was set up for 3400 prisoners and the number of prisoners in that time was 2803. In 2012, the capacity was 3771 and the number of prisoners was 4741. I am interested in what activities the Government had until 2012, 2011 to improve this part of overcrowding and quality of accommodation. This finding of yours that was me agreeing with her, that's what it is. Could have been done in a year that part. So I'm curious about what the government's activities were from 2003 to 2012 to bring this disproportionate to a normal position.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56259	The answer to the replica Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56260	The government's activities at the time were to build a penitentiary in Clay, normative for, first of all, 250 prisoners. And construction and later for 420, however, there are far more than 420 prisoners in Glina today, I think even over 550 prisoners. It is also open yet to compensate in some way for this overcrowding in Clay was opened and a specially semi-opened ward for prisoners who had the conditions to be in it. However, I want to tell you something else, I want to tell you that the construction of a penitentiary in Glina began immediately after the war, so in 1996 and that it was completed in 2010 or 2011. So it took 15 years for the penitentiary to be made, to be adequate to the standards. And here we see, through this report, how we're all proud of that fine in Clay, because really inmates in Clay have those standards that the attorney general is looking for. However, there is still overcrowding. And why is there overcrowding? Because new criminal laws have been passed under strict conditions, penalties have been tightened, more courts have imposed unconditional sentences in prison, there are crimes now for which unconditional prison sentences must be imposed. And such crimes require prisoners to be sent to prisons or penitentiary. Therefore, it is not the problem of the prison system of a semi-opened penitentiary, but rather the problem is closed and closed. That's the problem and that doesn't work out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56261	On behalf of the Club, HRS representative Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56262	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, the respected deputy minister, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. So here's when we talk about this report on the state of prisons and prisons, yet I as mayor of Leprechaun can say that I live not in prison, but I can say the end of the prison for 50 years and a few years and I can really competently say what it means, not only for the citizens of the city of Leprechaun but also for the convicted people who are in that part. So if we speak of what is stated to be the purpose of executing a prison sentence, that, with the steel treatment and respect of the dignity of a person who is in the maintenance of a prison sentence, training such a person or a prisoner for life is in accordance with the laws and social rules, and of course with the tasks and tasks of the Administration of the prison system, concerns the activities of the resociation of perpetrators of criminal offences and offences and their subsequent penal acceptance, ie. Its training for life on the loose in accordance with laws and social rules. So everywhere in this system there must be rules. And, of course, when we talk about rights, we have here and obligations so that every prisoner has the right to accommodate adequate human dignity, has the right to protection of personality and to ensure privacy of personal data, has the right to regular meals of food and water, the right to work, the right to education, the right to professional assistance, legal assistance, legal health care and the protection of motherhood, the right to contact with the outside world, the right to stay in the open space, the right to correspondence and conversation with his lawyer, the right to marry in the penitentiary, the right to vote in the general elections and other rules prescribed by the laws. So the rights are pretty big and we, of course, as a democratic society have to make sure that these rights are realised. Whether these rights are well placed in that part of the system, and if we execute them, we see from the complaints which are made by convicted persons, which are primarily complaints about health care, complaints about the conduct of officials, strict procedures and violations of human rights. Of course, the Administration of the Prison System as a single administrative organisation which is part of the Ministry of Justice and was established by special law i.e. The law on the execution of prison sentences requires that this part of the rights and obligations defined by the law be implemented. In that part, 2652 staff who are employed in the administration are concerned. And of course, apart from the administration itself and the structure, there are 13 prisons, 8 penitentiary facilities of which are 1 prison hospital in Zagreb and, of course, the Department of the Prison System are set up two educational institutions, a diagnostic centre and a training centre. And when we do it all together in a way we realize what we can say about this report, what we can find in that report that I would still like as mayor of a city along with my colleagues where we have such institutions in our environment, where the biggest problem is. What is generally said throughout the system is that the problem is lack of capacity, and then it is related to the absolute lack of funds that this problem and these complaints that are listed to be resolved. And that problem hasn't been since yesterday, it's really what's already been said for a long number of years, and in that part I would really mention what was now in the replica, that we back 10 years have an increase in capacity by 25% and an increase in the number of convicted persons and prisoners by 70%. So the difference is about 40%, and we really can't say that we've been taking care of that part adequately to monitor our facilities according to the number of prisoners. Well, then you could say so we didn't plan to have so many prisoners. There's no need to plan them. As we look at Croatia, there are 100 000 people somewhere around 105-110 incarcerated. It is one of the smallest in Europe, with about 300 to 500 prisoners per 100,000 inhabitants for comparison primarily in the eastern country of Europe. So we can't tell from this part of the data that we're going to have fewer prisoners in future periods. So that's what we were supposed to do not today, but 10, 20 years ago, make sure we don't have this problem that we have today. And of course, it also defines this characteristic of overcrowding and the inability to comply with established standards of prisoners being defined against complaints, we had 1033 complaints, not to mention 10 million kuna fines that we paid just for... punishment for too little space. Now that we see around that space, the standard is that one incarcerated person should have 4 squares or 10 meters cubic per person. Our cells are 15 squares and now if you put 4 people in that room then you have 1 square that you'll get the lawsuit right away, if you put 3 in then you have 3 squares more. So the question is, can it change because it's still this Parliament, and I think it's legal... we can change, that in Croatia it can be that it doesn't have to be 4 squares but it can be 3.5 squares. I don't think that's going to reflect absolutely on either the standard or the attitude... of anyone else. I don't think it's going to be much less than they have adequate countries in our environment, and in the whole world, but then we can adapt the system that is and do it in that part. We need to think about it a little bit and bring solutions, and we've seen the problem where it happens to us. Also about these complaints we've had, that we have a much greater increase in the lengthy sentence of the prisoner's prison. That's where different types of prisons are sought. Now that we say long-term prison sentences, which is how many we've got, they're all mostly in Prettyhead. And now... different types of prison and we need to re-invest, we need to adapt the conditions for such persons. In this part of the Action Plan for the improvement of the prison system, we see further that this would go to make that part too, these types and conditions for long-term prison sentences to be adapted in this way. He's in prisons and a lot of addicts, and above all, he's an accent on drug addicts and alcohol. They also require special treatment, and this again requires special accommodation, special costs. We were talking about complaints about health care. It is indeed a chronic lack of a doctor, and it is very understandable why it is. No doctor will come into such a system that will be linked to the coefficient and that will have much less pay than that doctor who has his own clinic, much less. And on the other hand, the largest number and the doctor must say are women. A woman in one system who enters a male prison that we have 95% of the male population in prisons I think I can say really competently is not a simple thing. It should also be applied to get that part of health care out of the assessment system, that is, payments, rather than to find another solution to the legal provision, and we cannot say that it is a cost again. It's a reality, it's a necessity or we won't be able to solve this problem. That's what we're talking about, the prisoner's diet. Inmates and minors shall be provided with three meals daily served at regular intervals of calorie value of a minimum of 1000 calories per day. An additional meal, i.e. meals, shall be provided to inmates who are employed or who are ill inmates according to the recommendation of the doctors. But there are also additional meals of religious importance, additional meals that are spoken of and the medical findings of vegetarianism, and glutein diet and other things, and that is what you in every prison must have and such specificity the possibility of providing it to someone. Now, a lot of my people in Leprechaun are still in jail, so let's go inside for these meals that we have, if we have hungry on the roads, this is still one standard that no one should be ashamed of. Even the bigger problem is that after that, we have too many threatening people, and yet we have a complaint that we do not provide adequate physical movement. Of course, we must ensure that prisoners and minors are educated and that is really done in a quality way. Here's an allegation that right in the Penitentiary in Lepoglav because of the lack of organisational education that they must now engage external institutions to conduct education, which naturally increases the cost of education. But for what? That organisational education really needs to be defined. We really at the facility, the penitentiary have professional, quality trained professors, people who have worked for many years to train. Just not to talk about that one of the biggest was also results on and describing people. Unfortunately, we have a lot of people and you can tell by the educational structure that came to prison. It was a descriptive thing. The truth is that after they described the first thing they wrote, they wrote a complaint about treatment in that prison. But good and that's still here's more rights being given in that part. When we talk about the reorganisation of free time within the framework, it must be found within their interests, possibilities, penitentiary, prisons, or educational institutions organise different types of activities, meeting the physical and cultural needs for which... sports and recreational and cultural content. [[The speaker is not understood because of the speedy reading.]] Now that we're talking about sports and recreational cultural content... provide such content especially in those prisons of a semi-open type, in penitentiary and prisons less, but semi-open type where you must also have sports halls, you must also have small-footed playgrounds and also football playgrounds that most often then use local community facilities. [[The speaker is not understood because of the speedy reading.]] And then I would specifically mention working with the local community. And just in that report it's written here are about a dozen sentences at the end of a little passage, and I think that should have a dozen pages in it. Because all the prisons, the penitentiary, especially the penitentiary, are here with my colleagues they make us in the center of the cities practically and a third and somewhere half of the working population and all the activities in that part of us. And I can tell you that I've been mayor here for 12 years in Leprechaun. This co-operation with the local community I can simply tell you that the only two ministers who came to me and asked what the system could do, the ministry could help the city for this one co-habitation, for one co-operation was a colleague of Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović at the time and a minister. No other minister has ever come to me as mayor, he called and said what we could do in one of those co-operations. Now I can tell you that, first of all, the cities that we have in the penitentiary of a guy like that, we don't have the right to rent. Now, it's not legally defined. Then he asks and why do you need a rent? Well, people work for you in prison. Yes, but we also have the opportunity to build a residential zone, so now you tell that deplean of yours to come to Leprechaun or Glin or where, it's nice to live with one such capacity and regardless of the historical cultural tradition of history you have along with it, so you'll see how happy people will come to you. Or you're going to invite a businessman into an entrepreneurial zone somewhere when he sees if you're going to invest in that area, and then again I have questionable questions with a big question mark above my head, and is that safe where I come from? There are problems and these problems should be addressed how to help these local communities along with these institutions that are in that part. And what's most important at the end when the facilities, the penitentiary, are what I said they're in the center of our settlement, the center of town. It's a safety assessment. And we can say, however, with the satisfaction of ensuring prisons, prisons and educational institutions the greatest security risks are related to the increased complexity and scope of the insurance department's affairs, taking into account the insufficient number of judicial police officers, the structure and number of prisoners, and the lack of technical equipment and inadequate architectural solutions to criminal acts. The safety assessment can say more than excellent just because, first of all, all these people working in that system are giving their maximum. And what everyone cheats about prison doesn't make walls, prison makes people, those who are inside, who provide that part of the system, which provides both penology and all health care and everything that makes it possible. They should be especially grateful to the officers. Because now that we're looking at that we have 4,000 jobs systemized in all these years and 2652 have been filled so far. So it's going to have 6% fill-in where one of the smallest fill-ups in the insurance department is. And we need to make sure that we really have to achieve that level. And that's our job in the Parliament and all of us to help the ministry, not to tell around that it's a cost, that it's a waste of money. It's a necessity, by standards and everyone else who needs it. And that's what our citizens, my people in Leprechaun, all the citizens who live in these cities where we have such institutions. That's what we have to have. Now that we're talking about part of the finance, which I said is the problem of lack of capacity and problem of finance, which is already said, we have in basic financial reports that revenue from the budget is 92% and we have income from our own activities 6%. And the structure is for employment 67% and the material expenditures are 32%. And now when we say that the average daily and total direct daily cost per prisoner is 280 kuna on average and just to say that in our Croatia, we are a democratic society, the work of prisoners is not mandatory, someone works if he wants to and if it can be made possible. And when you see an analysis here, not everyone who should and should, in my opinion, should really be involved in the work of all prisoners who can, of course, also because of the health and others in this part, and that at least within the system can be self-sustainability, and this is related to that revised action plan that is defined and is valid until 2014... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56263	Finish the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56264	The HNS Club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56265	Thank you very much. Ivan Shantek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56266	Thank you. My dear colleague, you said that some people go to prison for good meals. I have to agree that it's true about the diet this is all you've listed. So there are three meals with a prescribed calorie value of 3000 calories. Also, those who work have the right to an additional meal, prisoners who are vegetarians have the right to a vegetarian cuisine, those who are sick have the right to a diet kitchen, those who are believers and whose faith forbids the consumption of certain foods have the right to a religious cuisine, it is all true. However, what I would like to warn you is that people do not go to prison for good cuisine but go because they cannot pay certain penalties. So, there's... there's a prison sentence where more and more people respond just because they're not able to pay for it and there's nothing they can do about it. Besides, good cuisine as you say there is a possibility of treatment. However, what I would like to point out in particular is that this number of people who are determined to serve a prison sentence of several days in prison will increase even more. Here at this session of the Parliament, under paragraph 52, is a proposal for a Law on Infringements against Public Order and Peace. So, if such a law is passed and such punishments are only for, say, gathering young men on Saturday nights and singing under someone's window, then the disturbance of public order and peace is pronounced over 1,500 kuna. Well, of course everyone's gonna decide to go 2, 3 or 5 days to jail to do it instead of giving 1500 kuna. So the problem is what I'm saying is that laws are passed that make people go to jail, and the accommodation facilities of the penitentiary aren't like that and prison that they can take them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56267	Replication response, Marijan Škurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56268	Here's an esteemed fellow about the diet that you said, I was just saying the same thing in the context of those complaints that people inside are complaining about food, and with that analysis, I can really say they have no right. I mean, what you're offering is appropriate. What I once again have is a eating complaint that unfortunately because of the system and the public procurement process, we in prisons eat potatoes from Greece, tomatoes from Spain, etc. and within the system we have a very high capacity when we talk about the economy of the use of funds and everything that we can certainly cover the whole system with at least food. And then in general, it would be much cheaper and not spend these amounts of money that it is. We've got a lot of acres of unprocessed surfaces, they own a ministry that could put an adequate system into operation. And as for what you said about increasing the number that we have by this law if we accept it, and we certainly won't in that form, of course we'll take into account all the circumstances of the other, that we have a system of probation that we should also have talked about in a much better way to define and work for the common good. I mean, if we're already talking about diet and that part of the increase in people's goulash potatoes so let's at least make our potatoes goo and let them do it outside, and they shouldn't be in a system where there's gonna be just a cost again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56269	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56270	Thank you very much. Well, fellow two of your statements are at least questionable and even dangerous to me. You're calling for a downsizing. So do you think that those standards are sucked out of the little finger I don't know there won't be any more 10 squares, or 4 squares per prisoner, but let's adjust it we'll put 3.5, next year 3 and then we'll end up putting it like a sardine in there. Well, it's not an arbitrary thing. That's number one. And under number two, there's three meals there, and I don't know how many calories you said, and it's all wonderful. Well, that's what those who don't have would envy. Well, you invited minors if you're out of a job and you have nothing to feed your family to do a crime because it's really good there.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56271	You didn't answer on time. Hansel Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56272	Madam Vice-President, Deputy Prime Minister, I did not commend this 2011 and 2012 report. Reports are very exhaustive and countless good data. What I noticed as well as my colleague Skvarić that this part of the co-operation system with local self-government units should have been more quality, better processed with more opportunities because we believe that these units of local self-government in which prisons and penitentiary facilities are located, that their deposited rent is much worse than those of other cities, and I think that we should certainly find whether within the system whether legal regulations can be co-operated. And beyond that, the part that you told a colleague who's tied to the rights of a prisoner. This is also about accommodation rights and their labour rights and we know that all persons who have come to the prison system that they have wronged about the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia, that these are essentially persons who have come to the maintenance of the sentence and, as a result of their stay in the prison system, they require great costs. And here it states in their criminal rights that they have the right to work. In my view, it would certainly be good to consider this legal provision that all inmates who are working would have to give part of their work for their maintenance because in this way prisoners have twice damaged the state, the system. They've damaged their crime, done damages, and this time the state provides with its resources again to keep them in space. so I think this fellow Skvarić well noted that such a provision should also be seen means that those who are able to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56273	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56274	I can really point out once again that there really should be co-operation that you mentioned between the government ministries and all those local administrations where the penitentiary is. Perhaps the problem is that if you look a little over the past 20 years perhaps the most ministers have changed within the Ministry of Justice, even a year is not an average time limit if one minister's duration is calculated quickly. This speaks of a specificity of things, and I am pleased that here is the minister for two years in that section and will certainly appreciate this problem and work and quality that this problem, which has been present for many years and will finally be solved. And the question... really if you were watching a municipality the other day is an example of Croatia where at the end of that reporter said that the sheriffs at the other level should watch because there is everything free from kindergarten, school, sewerage everything is free and because they see wonders have big problems because there is a gas site and they need to get huge at the level of rent that they can live there quality. Yeah, the gas is really a big danger and get a rent this is another normal and we need to live. This is the right to work and work obligations really need to be seen and how to define it and I said we have a lot of land and objects that are potential, we need to put them in function, we need to see what and how by doing it not to fail us, we need to use EU funds to... things that are and everyone who can contribute not only to the development of the institution but also to the whole of Croatia. You need to think about it, and you're right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56275	On behalf of the SDP representative club, counterpart Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56276	Dear vice president, respected deputy minister, colleague and colleague. The fact is that over the past year, 16 thousand 743 prisoners of various formal legal status have passed through the prison system of the Republic of Croatia says that with great care we need to pay attention to this, and taking into account the fact that the entire prison system of the Republic of Croatia is under-encouraged and that 33% less people are employed in it than I think we should also deserve to give recognition to all people working in the prison system from judicial officers, doctors, health care professionals, cooks, criminals, educators, all those involved in the entire prison system or administration for the prison system of the Ministry of Justice. I think we can all agree that one of the basic characteristics of the prison system is its overcrowding and that is the problem with which the Republic of Croatia but also many other European countries have been struggling for years. The situation is still better, or it is improving because if we consider that, for example, at the end of 2010, overcrowding was 154%, 2011. 134%, and 2012. 125% of some shift we did anyway. Of course, the condition of what it is to introduce the inability to comply with established standards for a prisoner under closed conditions of detention which, in 9 years, led to a reference and a colleague resulting in around 343 damages to the prisoner due to poor conditions of maintenance of the prison sentence. Although in the last two years there has been a trend in the reduction and the fact is that we are missing in the prison system about 400 places and, despite all these positive shifts, it is necessary to bear in mind that according to European standards, the concentration of 120 prisoners is not considered critical, which is also determined by the Constitutional Court's decision of the Republic of Croatia. The same is the fact that at the end of 2003 we had 3004 accommodation units for a decade, and at the end of 2012. 3771. And while in 2003 the number of accommodation units was higher than the number of prisoners at the end of 2012 we have quite the opposite situation, so we have almost a thousand prisoners than accommodation units in the entire system of the prison Republic. But as I have already said, given the structure and number of employees and the number of those who pass through the prison system, we must bear in mind that the prison system administration is doing a huge and big job. In 2012 compared to the previous year, we have two reports. The total number of prisoners is down 7.43% and still the largest group of prisoners are prisoners who committed property crimes with 34.49%. I wouldn't go into the structure of all the works, you have a very comprehensive report that is methodological but also very well processed. The same way in this report shows the areas where we can make some shifts. I think that shifts can also be made to better inter-resorship cooperation primarily with the Ministry of Health. So, for example, it is said that there remains a problem that innumerable persons and by the power of a solution to forced accommodation remain very often within the prison system for months waiting for the realization of forced accommodation in public health institutions such as various psychiatric hospitals from Vrapča, Popovače, Rab or Ugljena. Of course, this leads to a violation of the laws or violation of fundamental human rights of these individuals. On the other hand, we can see in the same report that there is an increase in hospitalised prisoners in external hospitals, and this is undoubtedly a significant burden and a major security risk in carrying out insurance operations. Of course, this is also an additional burden for budgetary resources and budgetary restrictions are indeed visible throughout the report, and in several times in the report itself, it looked back on this. Therefore, the need to try to agree with the Ministry of Health in the future and adjust the rules to find a solution in terms of providing special rooms within external hospitals for the accommodation of prisoners during treatment, which, in addition to the health conditions for the conduct of treatment, would satisfy adequate conditions for the implementation of insurance measures during treatment. Except I would say a minimum in the form of adequate accommodation and health care the prison system organizes a whole range of other resociation and perpetrators of criminal offences and offences and creating and prerequisites for their after... Acceptance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, one of the colleagues here spoke of prisoners twice costing the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. I couldn't possibly agree with that. Namely, yes, the right to work is one of the fundamental rights of all and so the persons deprived of freedoms and precisely the right to work should enable them to make it easier to resociate and not to view it as a mere costing of the Republic of Croatia's budget. It's precisely because of what I said that it's very good for the prison system administration to implement different programs, especially because of a large number of addicts when you're looking at the prisoner structure. Therefore, special treatment of drug addicts, then special treatment of persons suffering from PTSD as well as a programme of responsible parenting. The problem facing the prison system in the Republic of Croatia is precisely this programme of responsible parenting because according to the new Social Care Act, it will no longer be done by family centres and centres for social care but is another task on all those who will be employed in the prison system. What's just as good is the implementation of a project to resocialise drug addicts who have completed some of the withdrawal programmes on addiction and in order to qualify for education and retraining and employment. Similarly, in cooperation with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in the second half of September 2012 she started preparing for the implementation of professional training until now the largest number of addicts since this whole project was implemented so that we can really consider it a good move. Equally, progress in treatment, relations, and legal protection of prisoners is equally visible. So let's say the number of benefits selected for the prisoners and in 2012 increased by 17% compared to 2011 and the number of complaints was reduced to the competent judge of execution. The structure of the complaint speaks for itself. Although there have been a number of complaints, the prisoner from the conditions of accommodation, health care, the actions of the staff of the tight procedure and the violation of basic human rights report states that irregularities have been encountered only on conditions of accommodation. If we were to look at some other reports, we would see that there are some fundamentals of inhumane conduct, but surely there is no inhumane treatment of prisoners in Croatian prisons, and that's really good. I have already mentioned on several occasions that the prison system administration is numbered with large both budgetary constraints and staff insufficiency. So from the lack of judicial police officers to the lack of technical equipment, inadequate architectural solutions, which are all together a significant risk and of course it is compensated only by additional burden on people who are employed in the prison system. Nevertheless, the number of specific measures applied to maintain order and security in 2012 in penitentiary and prisons decreased by 11.4% compared to 2011. And the number of self-harming prisoners was reduced by 27% compared to 2011. Taking into account the results of all previous years and the professional comparison with the criteria of European and world practice, and estimating indicators of monitoring the situation in the penitentiary, prisons, the state of security for the period 2012 can indeed be assessed as good. In the whole system, therefore, 33.77% less employees than what is in accordance with the Internal Design Regulation, so that's 1352 people less than expected. And it is precisely for the performance of jobs and the execution of penalties that requires special and quite specific knowledge and skills. In the past 5 years, the number of professionals working on these jobs has not been increased and the quality has not been reduced at all, and so I think we should actually make it known and particularly commendable in this report. Some things have been done, as much as we can't be satisfied, I've looked back on the overcrowding but also the fact that both in 2011 and in 2012 some things have been done and for actually a prison in Clay in terms of 2 facilities, when it comes to the reconstruction of prisons in Bjelovar, increasing capacity and a certain adaptation of prisons in Zagreb. Taking into account just everything expressed with full awareness in the need for long-term removal of deficiencies primarily in terms of increasing accommodation capacity, the achievement of better health care because more scientific staff in the system are being marketed and really better co-ordination with the Ministry of Health but also the staff strengthening of the prison system administration is being assessed as satisfactory and we believe that the employees of the prison system administration are doing a large, difficult and demanding job. Appreciating their efforts, given the need to respect human rights, persons deprived of liberty and supporting the current investment by the Ministry of Justice, the SDP Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56277	Thank you. The replica of colleague Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56278	Dear counterpart Mulic, you mentioned health care, I agree that an urgent conversation between the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Health is needed on this issue. And I'll tell you why I find it necessary to have an urgent conversation. Not because of what it said in the report, but because of the situation that two prisons are closed and that's Glina and Lepoglava are in small places. If Glina had no doctor because the doctor who traveled from Zagreb, although she was appointed head of the department, left the criminal system, had two nurses there. But Clay doesn't even have emergency medical attention. The mayor asked the county to form an emergency medical care system to address the problem of the Glina Penitentiary because it often happens that it has to intervene precisely because of these prisoners as well as who have health problems, especially who have epilepsy and who have seizures at night. That way the rest of the people of Gline are deprived because they have a team on duty, so there's no emergency medical attention. The other thing I'd like to say is, there's no when you're talking about the work of a prisoner, and there's no forced labour under our constitution. Therefore, in the prison system, work is a convenience acquired after a certain time. Directors and managers have a problem organising any work due to the fluctuation of prisoners, so they move in, first of all, I don't want to work anymore, second things go into lighter conditions or under stricter conditions and it's simply impossible to organise any quality organization, even for food production. And the third thing you said, it was that two objects were made in Clay. One facility was built in Glina, and this other object we're talking about was an old building in 1870, which was an Austrian military station, and it was turned into a repair site, that's what it was called. After that, all the prisoners were in that facility before they moved to a new facility, and now that the new facility is being overcrowded, that old object is actually formed as a semi-open unit, but it needs to be intervened much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56279	Thank you. Replication response, Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56280	Thank you. Actually, colleague Shantek, I'd say most of what you said absolutely agree. So the fact is that prisons don't have 24-hour care of medical staff, or that prisoners are not available medical treatment, and I would really like to appeal to the Ministry of Justice to address the Ministry of Health. Unfortunately, there is a problem that a large number of health workers do not want to work in the prison system, so I do not know if it is possible in terms of adequate benefits that do not necessarily have to be cashed, but really to encourage people to give people deprived of adequate health care. The other thing you referred to was forced labor. I was not talking about forced labour, I was talking about the right to work just as one of the fundamental rights of persons deprived of freedom and that in Croatian legislation in accordance with the Law on the execution of penalties. I would also like more of them to have the right to work because I think it serves their rehabilitation and rehabilitation effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56281	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56282	Thank you, Vice President. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is one of the important topics of those topics where there is not too much space for some policyisation of opportunities and cases rather than more for a constructive debate where it is necessary to make a contribution to what needs to be done. First what's most important. The most important thing is to spread a positive climate so that we do not have overcrowded prisons, penitentiary facilities, educational institutions and all other systems that belong to the prison system of the Republic of Croatia. The most important thing is prevention because if we asked these 16700 people today who went through the prison system in 2012 who would want to go out in touch with the outside world and freedom, I'm sure they'd all come out. No one would stay there for accommodation, for health care, for food and the like. Unfortunately, these are people who have, in one way or another, slightly or more seriously violated the laws, positive legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Parliament and the Ministry of Justice in the past period have brought and proposed and we have discussed a number of laws aimed at just adopting measures and legal provisions that will impose penalties for minor crimes so that people do not go to prison because only putting them in jail, the detention of a person is already at stake, and its rehabilitation, its normal return to society. They are not the same lesser crimes than serious crimes where normal detention is required depending, of course, on the court's decision and on the severity of the crime committed by the person. So now I think that we are good laws in this sense to bring in the time before us, that it is necessary to pass laws and measures if possible, if such acts are a violation of regulations and laws that people are simply free from paying prison sentences. We are more proponents of strengthening that work for the common good, working in the local community, the state community in a way that people, if they have committed such acts, are still not part of this prison system. As for detecting the problem, I think that the problem that has been going through for years, which is the problem of financial nature, the funds in the state budget, we saw that in last year's budget 800 million kuna was less in the Ministry of Justice's portfolio so that no functional system can be expected unless there are enough financial resources. We see by that number of people how systematic jobs are, how busy it is, how many people are missing, whether it's a clerk, whether it's a person who's employed in the insurance system, whether it's a doctor or a psychologist. I think it's very important to devote and make great efforts to get the resources to make this system adequate and successful. Unfortunately, it's all connected wheels. If the economic situation in the country is the way it is, if there are not enough funds, new jobs, employment, if citizens are burdened with the system and taxes, do not work, do not get paid, this also affects this. This is the ultimate consequence of the fact that in this general environment of pessimism and depression, people commit crimes, any offenses, any traffic offences, any crimes. It is simply such a situation that as a society, as a state, we must do everything here at the highest level to prevent young people, minors, younger minors, elderly minors from committing crimes and violations. It is not only the tasks of the Croatian Parliament, the legislator, but primarily families if such people have a family where they can grow up normally, but local communities and then state communities. The local community shouldn't be blind. No one prevents the mayors, the mayors, the mayors from co-operation with the Ministry of Justice. We have also seen in a number of reports how much effort it seems to have made to these associations that are part of civil society, and yesterday we have contributed to some media that big money is given to associations of more than 77 million kunas, so that if they do so, we can see from reports that they are involved in investing in prevention, in the gathering of young people who unfortunately do not have the means to school or study to do positive work. What is good is that such cooperation exists in some environments and that it should be strengthened as well, of course, necessary because by structure we have seen the education of people who have passed through the prison system. That's where I primarily think about minors. They are primarily people who have not graduated from primary school or have completed primary and secondary school. The smallest number is those with higher and high professional equipment. So it is also the task of the Ministry of Education and Science to make efforts to encourage people to school. I'll just say an example from our County of Osijek-Baranja. About 8% are compared to the total population of highly educated people. These are data that are also critical and if we look at the structure of people who end up in prisons that commit crimes it is also a connected system. The state doesn't have too much space if it doesn't have enough financial resources. Positive measures are on these extensions of prison facilities, on the use of EU loans and funds, on the expansion of capacity in Clay so that people can be adequately placed in view of what we see, given that there are about 1200 people somewhere, therefore more than can be put into the prison system. That's all the trouble. I say there's not much room in them for politicization, but for action in a way that other ministries of resort that have both state facilities and the State Office for State Property, the Central State Office I believe there's space that stares blanks that can be provided for the functioning of this prison system. I'd especially like to stress that on people with disabilities. There should be a special system. We see that there's a report in some penitentiary and prisons that these people can't all be placed on the ground floor but are driven to the first floor. It creates problems for both officials and people who work in the system. Of course it would be good to fill in the whole system. We see that there are not enough employees, but there are state ministries and state administrations where there are people who have nothing to do in these ministries, so it would be good to record a system, one joint cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and other ministries to see if there are a number of employees who can be moved to work under conditions and such systems. It is very important and important that persons, therefore, who end up in prison, either for easier or more serious crimes in a certain way, have contact with the outside world, that their exit will not mean disappointment in the state and the system. They ended up there because they violated the laws of the Republic of Croatia. The state has to do everything to make sure that when these people come out first they know where they're going with them, to help them in counseling so that they can find a job, to prevent them from going back to doing the work. This renaissance should be as small as possible. All laws, incentive measures must be such that primarily those younger people in society, in local communities in which they live, are encouraged by positive thinking, a positive climate, although it is necessary, people should be offered any work. No, it's good that those in the prison system have the opportunity to work, to earn certain journals, and it would be good to do so before they go to jail. And they came to jail for doing some work. So it is a great task for society as a whole to make great efforts to help such people. I'm sure there's room and space. There are numerous cities and municipalities, numerous counties that have quality people who run these programs. And if we are going to strive for our system to have good laws, for the Croatian Parliament to pass laws that are enforceable and for our citizens, then we should strive to keep as few of our citizens as possible, especially those underage people, people who have problems with drugs, with alcohol. It is the task of family, local communities and states. Then we in these discussions and replicas in this case, so we don't have room for some kind of politics and an expression of attitudes that are going to be like this, like food in prison, is it high-calorie or not. I think we should record the situation of the people who come there, the people who come to prisons, and what the state, society, local community and their families, we can all do together to be as few of these crimes as possible, any crimes. Because if we are to guard the Republic of Croatia, then we need to do everything we can to encourage people to have positive thinking, not to have a desire to end up in prison because they have nothing to eat. We will support the 2011 and 2012 report and participate in all those discussions in which we will pass such laws for the perpetrators who have committed minor crimes, rather than involve people for the work of general good in the community in which they live because only people who personally feel that they give good to society and community in which they are able to learn and prevent them from coming to prisons, penitentiary and educational institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56283	Thank you very much. Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56284	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, in your report, you have mentioned two things that I would like to highlight in particular. You said you should work to reduce the number of prisoners and that this is a solution for lack of capacity. I absolutely agree with that, and we really need to work first and foremost on prevention. But the facts tell us differently, that here in 2004, there is a huge increase in the number of convicted persons, and practically the same level of capacity. So what I'm saying is that by the number of closed persons per 100,000 residents of about 105 to 110, we're among the smaller ones in Europe that we're within these sizes. It means that we can't plan in some future a greater reduction in the number of prisoners. So we have to plan this capacity increase, and I'm not talking about that part yet, and here's the new court proceedings that are under way that we're going to have even more needs for capacity. And the other thing you said again about the ministry and the government's co-operation with local self-government, you said more about civil society associations. Yes, I really agree with the civil society association and they must help in this cooperation, but this cooperation with the local government through the mayor and the mayor is also connected to the communal infrastructure most of the time. Each institution should have a sewerage, it should have water, it should have electricity, it should have other capacities, and it should be invested there. On the other hand, these facilities benefit you first and foremost the school halls, the homes of culture and use the rest above all and the park area. Here's an example of this cooperation that has so far been insufficient and here we have now managed to run thanks to here understanding of the ministry of all the park areas in the town of Lepoglav are owned by the state, i.e. the Ministry of Justice. And we couldn't get into use, or property that has been regularly for the last 12 years. Now we finally started it after that so we could get it on a regular basis. That's what cooperation should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56285	Replication response, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56286	My dear colleague, I wanted to stress the prevention of such cases. And if prevention is good, the number of people in prisons and penitentiary will be reduced. Here's an example from yesterday that a young person at the age of 25, a girl, committed a traffic violation 20 times where there was a result of a serious injury to a person who was found on foot somewhere in Zagreb on the street. So how did the system not detect such a person as a person potentially dangerous to a society that could commit a dangerous act and eventually end up in prison? It's just one example of the life that happened yesterday. And a lot of such examples happen. I said there is a need for maximum involvement and families if such persons have families, local communities, cities, county and state as a whole. So we can talk about accommodation capacity if we have enough money, funds to build or rent or transfer from one system to another so that we can turn some of the empty spaces of former state buildings or factories into prisons. However, it is not good for us to spend money on investment in such systems if we strive together to prevent people from committing crimes at all. I think we've been on the trail of the laws we've just passed to reduce people's punishment by going to prisons for minor crimes except for the heavy one, not, of course, that it should be some future direction of the Justice Department. And improving conditions, health conditions, educational conditions, working conditions in prisons is all that of course depends on financial resources. If there's not enough psychologists, there's not enough doctors, there's not enough employees, there's not enough people in the insurance system because there's not enough resources. So, I'm more of a preventer, for resociation to prevent relapses, but above all, for the greater role of society as a whole in order to prevent criminal offences.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56287	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party of the Work of fellow Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56288	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. So I must admit that I was under the impression that I was still under the impression of the praise of fellow Skvaric that it turns out that he praised three meals with high caloric value and maltenes and invited the unemployed and those who have nothing to feed their families to do some crime and get there because it's very good there. Although this report shows, the real report is written and correct with some shortcomings in the sense that there are still no data in it, and what we can read about it in the media is better not to mention. However, you have one hand right because the fact is that some people are allowed to play golf there, so when we add up those and those who read this I'm going to read from the media "The prison administration is denying them food if they don't want to work." So there are cases like this even though it's said to be gone from here. I don't think it's exactly the way we tried not to say idealize and embellish, let's not say idealize but to make it far more beautiful, I think that the state is and that the applicants are aware that the condition of the kudikamo is worse than it should be. The first problem I've detected is the overbooking of all prisons, and at the end of the day, in all reports, so far stands, and it stands in this report, and I have to admit that I agree with my colleague Shantek, who also mentioned the case of the Sibenik Penitentiary, who, not to say for years, was a subject or a possible solution to this problem or at least a mitigation of this problem, but I don't and absolutely support what you said. An additional problem, and I wouldn't solve that overbooking problem, I wouldn't solve it the way you colleagues said because some standards exist. They're not arbitrary, it's still something we believe was made based on someone's professional attitudes. The very fact that in some prisons, I don't know if this is true, but the data is from the media that in some, the average fill-up of our prisons is 122%, and in some, Varazdin is quoted as an example of 192%. That means you don't need to cut standards, they're already down. But not legally, not with certain provisions, but if you have maltenes twice as many people in some penitentiarys as the standards predict it is already a catastrophic state. There's also a lack of staff here, especially a doctor. The consequence of not being inescapable and should certainly be emphasized is something that I have read the same in the media that for this reason, treatment reduces maltenes exclusively to anti-depressants. I don't think that's a good solution, as much as I think it's a very dangerous solution. I hope that we will not experience the lack of a doctor and that there is no motivation there is no easy way to motivate doctors to do so, I hope that on the basis of last night's statement or yesterday's statement of the prime minister we will not share work obligations with those who are stifled or I don't know what term he used which 51 and 52 days are on strike and instruct them to be additional help there. I see that my colleague Grubisic was immediately called. What I mentioned at the beginning that missing in this report is one of those details, let's say, claims for compensation for damages. For 2011 it exists for 2012 there is no amount of how difficult these requirements are, and yet it is directly financial to us in this situation and can hardly be burdened with what the increase itself is really alarming. From 100 to 343, I think it's really worrying that you shouldn't just go through it like that. You can't see from the report I said how difficult this request is, but the report shows that the problem and the lack of employees of these others, not just the doctor. Among other things, in 2012, insurance officials submitted 220 applications for a peaceful solution to the dispute, or a claim for payment on behalf of the fee for unused vacation, overtime, field allowance and everything else that goes on the basis of a collective contract. I think it's the same worrying information. After all, I'm asking these 340 and a few thousand unemployed whether there's a possibility that this system can come out of that number? I simply cannot believe that there are people among those 340 thousand in the extreme case that could be requalified, requalified, or already something necessary within a short period of time. I was comfortable with another text in the media because of the overbooking of the prison, so our people are otherwise inventive and resourceful but this way of getting along is really not to say it that innovative. You find a connection between prison guards to simplify you need to go to prison duty and then find out with a drink how much overbooking is in prison. Although the overbooking of prison or overcrowding is at that point, you sign up, you get the paper that you applied for but can't receive a new term is not scheduled. Well, then after a while, you do the same thing, and then no one calls you to jail anymore because you did your time, they don't have room there. Now this comes under the condition that you are not in the category mentioned by your colleague Skvarić that you like to get three meals a day and if I am not mistaken for a thousand calories guaranteed in this. Three thousand thanks nicely for the correction, but let's be honest with each other. If we don't count the one playing golf there, they're not there because they want it and because it's good there. No one's going to jail alive because they have that kind of desire and because they think it's good there. People are some that a colleague has already mentioned from despair they have no place to pay, they have no regular needs to settle, they don't just have no so they're forced to go to work for a few days rather than to pay for food with nothing at the end. So this unnecessarily beautiful thing doesn't lead anywhere. The report submitted realistically presented the situation with those minor shortcomings I mentioned, but there's no need we're all aware of the situation, the crisis is not for what by some criteria is far more important than this, and now to convince ourselves that it's good, it's not good, it's nobody there because you'd want to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56289	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56290	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague, Novak. It's not very nice to compare this topic to and bring to the attention of doctors, but there are also most of us there when the late Simic is to be filmed for television in handcuffs as if he's stolen the state, but good. I was going to say that there are more similarities. Here are the cost of salaries and the material costs of prison employees are about 68% compared to all other costs. That's exactly how much in health care that is now on strike, or doctor's, employees' costs range from 65 to 70%. But what I was about to say is that this report says that in the structure of the direct costs of prisoners a daily meal of 20.78 kuna. Very current this morning at HRT on Good Morning Croatia was a gentleman professor who said that a Croatian citizen is spending just 20 kuna on a daily diet. So we leveled our diet in prisons, or we evened out the price of food both in prison and in the free world. So maybe this, too, Mr. Skuric, who was talking about it is actually somewhat right. And there's something else I'd like to tell you, and you didn't say that there are no reports in this report, so there's no reports of any prison seats compared to any penitentiary or prison. So, there's no report here as many prisons as there are facilities available, which would be good, given that here in this list of prisons we have prisons and penitentiarys 22 on the number and we only have in Požega and Osijek prisons and penitentiary, in Slavonia. In Slavonia... of 22. 2. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56291	Thank you. The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56292	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, you said at the beginning that the mention of the medical profession, or doctor, that he now automatically associates you with Dr Šimić in handcuffs, on his arrest, I believe you are associated with this. However, as soon as someone mentions that part of me is associated with Dr. Rubal, but I don't think they're all in the same category, but it's associated with me right now. What you mentioned is the amount of food, so I have to say that there's no difference before or now, but here's proof that this system has found a way to save. So if you refuse to, say, go to work and deny you a meal. Right on a fruit meal, minors have one once a week. I think it's a form of savings that's extremely harmful. It's extremely damaging because in the end, what kind of message we're sending a team, it's primarily about young people. And it's no wonder that, say, I read the information that out of 20 escape attempts, 15 have just been made by minors. What it's like to be taken with a bunch of law enforcement officers acting as teachers who aren't even trained to do that is a little less because of a lack of unemployment, it says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56293	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56294	Well, here's an esteemed colleague to sort out the diet. First of all, what I said is in the report, and that's a fact. Because I know what the fact is and I know what the real state of things is. And I don't have anything to brag about, but after all, I can say that maybe in the north it's working better and even working in prisons and respecting certain standards, the legality that should be defined accordingly. In that second part of what you said about overbooking, that is... Standard. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The standard really doesn't think anyone's going to have to put someone in a cage where they can't live or breathe but one example of the standard. I would not talk about other countries that are in the European Union and I know for sure that you see how their standards are. I am also pleased that when committees from the European Union come, they have a very positive opinion and high scores give for our standards and our working conditions in prison. But so watch what I said between 16 squares and 15 squares is 0.25 if you put 4 out of it I don't think it's, it's not exactly a violation of some standard. But I'm sure we'll get these 10 million kunas that I've received as much as we've paid for the damage and compensation for that part of illegal holding, or... There's plenty of room to see. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, the solution to overbooking and construction, and we need to build new prisons, I agree that it should be in Sibenik, but also on the public private partnership system, we need to get funds from the European Union fund, these are the solutions that we need to do about what we see now, as fast as we can, and that will be defined on the action plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56295	The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56296	Thank you. I'm not going to pollut around these standards because it really doesn't make sense. But you gave me another idea, I don't know how much fun it is, how real it is at all, but that's like the subject of thinking, I think there's still enough ex-military, are they, is there any, is that a clear question, I'm not saying that, but given that overbooking, it's already, it's already objects that exist, whether there's a possibility of change I don't know, but that's like an idea for thinking, just on my part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56297	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56298	Thank you. Well, as for the lack of a doctor in the prison system, there is a lack of doctors in all the elements and in the MORH, as well, the MORH has been running competitions for years, no one is responding to these competitions, the MUP has similar problems. In the prison system for years, it's practically nowhere to be found. The answer is very simple everywhere, all countries have introduced bonuses, extra bonuses on deficit personnel. It's very simple, so you raise your salary for those groups that you can't find to the point where you can find those who will work there for some pay. It's the same thing the United States does, it's England, it's Germany. So you have to pay them extra more than in the open, let's say normal working conditions. And do not pay them significantly less what they are paid today if they work in the penitentiary than if they work in the public health system of the Republic of Croatia. So who'd go to work at the penitentiary today? It's very simple. Secondly, when it comes to the overbooking of the prison system, some people working in the system say that it is an urban legend spread by certain stakeholders that the Republic of Croatia has taken very high standards of which it has suddenly been created or most of all, among the most normative of all, there has been this story of prison systems being overbooked because some in previous years who had the will to build private prisons through a public private partnership. So, you should see really what are the norms and whether the Republic of Croatia must put into one real level its prison system with the standard of citizens, of course, so we can't look at the standard of Sweden, neither do Croatian citizens have the Swedish standard, so they can't even have Croatian prisoners.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56299	The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56300	Thank you very much. Well, I'll start at this end. Surely no one is asking Croatian prisoners to have the standard of Sweden, but if it is a denial, that the educational method is denying the meal that is written here then...... Yeah, well, I agree with that, I fenced myself right away, and I said I was talking on the basis of what I read. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm not behind the fact that the data is correct. As far as this part of the story is concerned that overbooking is deliberately staged, the stories, I have on some side contacts with people who work in that system, who assure me that it's not a very high story, that it's a real story about the overbooking of at least those institutions where they work. Now there's probably a different one, but I doubt anyone would write about the data from 120 to 150 percent overbooking, probably something like this that you suggested to reduce that relationship, but I doubt that's exactly how it is. As for doctors and the employment of doctors, what you said about motivations, unfortunately, there is no such thing in Croatia, otherwise the system is that the professions that are deficited to find a way to motivate them, to enter into the part that is in itself, but not to say what is repulsible to at least most people. I hope it's not just or it's not the Ministry's business, but it should be dealt with entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56301	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56302	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Novak, I agree with you in the part where you talked about the difficult social opportunities of our citizens, and you've described it very clearly and vividly. But I also noticed these claims that were made by colleagues Grubisic and Đurović, where you mentioned the lack of doctors in the prison system, and I would like to extend and say that the doctor is not only in prison but is missing in the entire health system, mainly in rural areas where some medical years of competitions have and no one is responding. Of course the village is going down, we know why and of course the doctors aren't showing up. But even more concerned about the data that we heard a few days ago from the president of the Croatian Medical Chamber that already about 200 demands from our professional, competent doctors asked to work outside, and did not naturally contribute to improving these human opportunities or... creating a negative atmosphere around the doctor and such, such as this, stand out..., and I think this is from context with colleagues, these from yesterday. I don't think this Prime Minister, where doctors are called quitters, really adds to the improvement of this personnel picture and that the opportunities with doctors will be even more difficult and worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56303	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56304	He is a colleague, and I must admit that this statement not only surprised me but also a little startled me. I mean, it's really not appropriate for those doctors who, no one contests their right to strike, and now, in the end, if they go on that strike, if they go to fight for their rights, they're shut down immediately. It's real, I can't tell you anymore, it's no longer inappropriate, considering who it's from and it's good. You mentioned if I'm not mistaken for 200 doctors who have filed a request.... I know of, say, three people I know personally, who also filed those demands. There's an increase in number to four. I think it's just as dangerous as that announcement that's been going through, but we're going to attract doctors, or we're going to attract labour from those countries where there's an even worse situation. Well, I don't think that's a solution, but obviously there's no hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56305	On behalf of the club of independent representative Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56306	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy. Our club will support this report that we think is well structured, comprehensively, with a number of very high-quality data that we are proposing should be served in an analysis of the adoption of all future laws that will refer to the system that we are talking about today and from the analysis and data that are substantiated here can indeed be drawn very good conclusions. We are, of course, in this debate today, also discussing the functioning of the rule of law, we are talking about the repressive system, but we are certainly talking about it through a number of human rights analyses, constitutional values. Many of these days we have talked about the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so the most important value, that freedom must be protected, that freedom of every man is the greatest value and that, of course, with all those who come into conflict with the law and who are at some point deprived of freedom, must act humanly and respect their human rights. So this report is talking about it anyway. The most important fact that we need to discuss in the future when we adopt future budgets is based on the fact that at the end of last year, 4741 persons were placed in the prison system, and that the capacity of the penitentiary in 2012 was for 3771 persons and this is the basis for this information for all future analyses on what we should do, what we do and in which direction we should go and many other reforms about which we speak about laws, but certainly also for the system that we are discussing. I'll point out, of course, and I'd say one by-line data that can also be drawn from a lot as a conclusion that there were 95% of men and 5% of women in the prison system last year. Thus, it is a fact that certainly speaks of women incomparably breaking laws and that women are incomparably fewer perpetrators of criminal and criminal offences. And there's nothing else I can say other than that of a respected colleague. As far as elderly people are concerned, it's a good fact, very interesting that in the past year there were 14.88% fewer people of older age. So, according to the report over 59 years of life, it's also very, very interesting and very indicative. However, I suggest that we focus today, but also in the future, the degree of education of persons who were here last year were in the prison system. It's so mostly every year, that structure doesn't change in a significant way. So the largest number of prisoners has completed high school or crafts school 2051. With a finished elementary school of 933 and an unfinished elementary school of 250. So, the largest number of people currently in the prison system are persons who either have completed or do not finish primary school and barely high school. This is just as important in all of our educational system decisions, which demonstrates unequivocally once again how important education is and through this analysis we are reading in this report. I'd like to tell more about the inmates about the addicts because there are several places where enough time has been devoted. What I think is good is that there was a continuation of a resociation programme that we started back in 2007. It's a very quality program. I personally participated in his creation then as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, and I think it's something really good. I personally visited and here is the system in Lepoglava in conversation with many prisoners, especially Croatian defenders who, unfortunately, were then at the execution of the sentence and proved that this programme was indeed very supportive of them. Therefore, I propose to the Government that, even when budgeting, because, of course, this system costs, the system of resociation costs, not to give up the programme despite all the difficulties we have in putting together the budget for next year. Similarly, in the analysis of prisoners at this time, or in the last year, so those who were on a fine when seen in drug addicts' structure again 97.3% among addicts, inmates are men and can certainly serve as one good foundation for all future analyses and any future decisions. And finally, because I think this report could be discussed for an extremely long time about all the details, but I mean to point out what seems most important to me. Interesting data is that the number of inmates tested for alcohol and drugs has been reduced. That's good data, a reduction in suicide attempts by as much as 27% compared to the previous year also good data. However, an increased number of escape attempts. 2009 four, 2010 six, 2011 six, 2012 20. And it's a good thing there's been a decline in the conflict between prisoners by almost 10%. Finally, I warn my colleagues and colleagues who may not have read this report in detail to look at and review the budget for this system over the years. Here is the total budget from 2006 to 2012, so the funds have been increased by almost 11%, which means that all governments so far have sought to improve everything that is important in this system in order to ultimately respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. That's enough certainly isn't. Thank you very much. And once again, we will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56307	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague, Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56308	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Prisons aren't warehouses where people are stored. These are institutions where, by accident, by will or under various circumstances, people serve punishments, penalties imposed upon them by society. That's why the appeal I've felt and heard in earlier exhibitions I support. In this case, it is not about the fact in which the first plan is capacity or accommodation. It's not about something quantifications that we're used to when we show the tourist season. It is about quality and in this sense critical or self-critical reports have a very useful effect. We have been warned of the situation in prisons throughout a series of times, probably before the Assembly also. But the report by the attorney general, the attorney general and the State's attorney's report actually show that this opening statement about people being held in prisons is hidden and illustrated by very serious numbers. It's not a simple formulation that capacities are too low. It is that such prisons are unable to perform their basic functions. In such prisons, there is no right and there is no possibility of achieving the rights of prisoners. The differences between individual penitentiary actually do not show that we have overcome what the reports say, and that is a certain criticism. However, I came to the hearing for two additional reasons. First of all, this situation is the result of what is mass psychology in the Croatian people. People, citizens simply find it harder, they love it, they desire it as harshly as possible. They don't think prisons are places to suffer, places to live hard. They experience prison punishment as something that can be endured and then use the fruits of what was a crime. This is especially true in cases of economic crime and the like, where it is quite openly said that punishment does not mean anything. Therefore, I share that opinion, which is why it is not necessary to insist so much on the strictness of penalties as on the overall system of sanctions, let's say the confiscation of property in this case, which should serve the general general prevention. Prisons must serve this, not only to make people feel good in them, but to serve to avoid or intimidate all those in the choice of breaking or not breaking the law. What I'm saying in particular is I think the fact that the public's attention and courts are avoiding the fact that the beginning of a prison sentence for some people means actually one good situation that she's otherwise a high verdict that's been given to them won't be so terrible. The system of avoidance, the system of reducing penalties, the different treatment of people who are in the penitentiary, and that is something that should certainly be condemned is what actually motivates people here not to believe that the prisons will execute or punish their task. That's why my announcement is also an appeal for respect for the people who are in the maintenance of the prison sentence, care for their rehabilitation and return and particularly important equality of chance and treatment within the penitentiary.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56309	Thank you very much. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56310	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Whenever the annual debate on the report on the state and operation of penitentiary offices, prisons and educational institutions is an opportunity to see what it is and what kind of criminal justice policy is actually implemented in our country and in general how it is in one country, how it treats prisoners and everything in what security is. And that is why it may be good for us to have the same discussion this year about the report on the situation in the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for both 2011 and 2012. Perhaps the most valuable is, that's what Kregar's colleague and colleague Kosor warned about, but at the outset the deputy minister said, so the most significant change is that the number of prisoners has just been reduced. What does that mean? This means that the amendments to the Penal Code have already fulfilled their purpose. That prisons and penitentiarys are reserved for the heavy perpetrators of criminal offences, and that all the milder committed some minor crimes we can and must solve in another way. So that's what we warned our colleague Craig about for many years. For eight years we've been talking, and now for ten years we've been saying that the wrong criminal justice policy, and especially with regard to those most minor crimes regarding drug abuse, when we said that such youth should be treated and that they are not prisoners where they are in contact with those hard-working criminals even get some instructions. So, so they don't become schools for those young crime schools. I would especially like to point out that and it is very valuable to say as much as it may not be popular but it is our duty to speak and what has drawn the attention of my colleague Craig that once a society, when the state condemns through its judicial system a person, a defendant, when he becomes a convict and accordingly a prisoner if he is sentenced to a prison sentence that states' obligations to such a person have not ceased but that they have become new ones. Here, we must talk about such obligations today through this report. It is important to note that we still see some progress. What's commendable is that we've introduced and now for 12 years it's the judicialization of our prison system where the judge decides about it, not the arbitration of a member of the state administration. It is equally important to note that, in accordance with the Treaties with the Holy See, we have introduced and therefore fulfilled that obligation to introduce a custody in our prisons and penitentiary. And in general, when considering the state of human rights in one country, no matter how much someone thinks about it and how much he boasts, all objective observers will first come to prisons and penitentiary because it is here that one society is seen ready and resolved in respect of human rights. Because the goal of this whole effort is that it is bulky and expensive, which is needed, is that once a convict executes his prison sentence, when the prison doors are opened, they don't close the doors of society in front of him. It's one heavy obligation but I can say no matter how difficult it was and how hard it is now that it's always been done by professionals, by people who, under modest conditions, have all their engagement, we have great experts in the penitentiary system, dedicated education and re-raise prisoners. This is something that makes us different, and why we got a great commendation 12, 13 years ago from the international institutions that have visited our prison system that have said that the conditions are very modest even in certain segments and unsatisfactory, but that the concern of prison staff was the guardians of either those involved in the processes of education and retraining significantly compensates this one human relationship to prisoners. It's not like that to you in the world, they have modern ones having much better equipped their prisons and penitentiary but they're a number there. And there's a simple ratio as one market, they did it to society so you have to pay and we have no other business with you. So this one effort that all of the speakers here, regardless of what political parties came from and said it, was evaluated and these people, these people who aren't much missing, talked about how systematic they were and how much we still lack the staff. What I would also particularly like to mention is this progress in terms of medical care. This is precisely seen in these percentages in the number of reviews as many doctors are missing, but how much of this effort has also made the number of examinations, which certainly leads to certain concerns in the end line and to safety. What should also be taken seriously and which is always related to appropriate material resources, which is that we must no longer allow this system to be overstretched to represent a security problem which has been warned by a public defender for years because of overcrowding of the system. I believe that by continuing to implement the criminal policy that we have conducted by amending the Penal Code and its further development and a whole series of alternative measures, the prison system will become more and more orderly and secure and that by the year, such a report, or in the next year's report, will make these trends even more visible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56311	Thank you. A colleague, Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56312	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. This is when I carefully read this report on the situation in the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions, it is obvious that the lack of financial resources is directly affecting the achievement of the desired level of standards prescribed by both the Constitution and international contracts and the Law on the execution of prison sentences. Also, the lack of prison staff and inadequate reward affect the inability to complete implementation and that prison. 4 meters square, 10 cc's of air at the moment when the facilities of the prison system are 1771 prisoners, and we have 4741 of course that can't be achieved. And there should also be an architectural solution to the good part of some of our prisons that are outdated and which, of course, cannot provide all that is necessary. So the situation isn't great. We know there's a penitentiary in Pozega, a prison, an educational institution. I have visited the entire system that is in Požega many times in my work. This time, given the colleagues who have already talked a lot about this topic, I would like to talk about a single and single women's penitentiary in our country. Even more specifically, I'd like to say something about an open department. In the total prison population, 5% are women. They're on average more educated, it says in the report, and I'll say they're more gentle, it doesn't say in the report, but regardless of those in relation to the male population were in an unequal position and I'll say the discriminatory position especially when it comes to the open department, and that's why I'm saying I'm going to look back on that open department. Because they were placed in your wall, you know what the wall is, it has some standards of some 5, 6, 7 meters high, so they were placed in the wall, with too little movement and room in the fresh air. They were located in two bedrooms for 35, 6, 7 beds, had one tea kitchen, one inappropriate, one inappropriate social room had two sanitary knots, you had three toilets, three shower cabins, one sink and 10 water mixers on the so-called. ... And they were under constant I'm gonna say unnecessary supervision of the judicial police because when you've met the conditions to be in the open ward, then that kind of surveillance is not necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, these benefits in the open department depend on the success of the implementation of the program of that execution and this is defined again by the rules and the rules of the house. And if, therefore, these conditions and the creation of women were not able to achieve those benefits in relation to the male population in the open wards in the penitentiary where it was done. I must say thanks to the Minister of Justice, thanks to the ministry's strategy on those measures of reducing and rationalising costs and especially to the town of Požega, here I was at the time at the beginning of this year, we have provided financial resources for the purchase of materials because your hands give you a prison system for redecorating space within the penitentiary, where we have now turned that space into a educational institution and in this area, on the open part are things... Changed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From now on in the open ward, we have room for two prisoners. So there are no more 15, 16, 17 or 18, incomparably have better and more suitable conditions, more adequate sanitary knots, social room, library, kitchen, large courtyard with handball court, basketball and other sports facilities. And what's extremely important is that they're no longer in the wall and no longer have that constant supervision of the judicial police. And why I said that, so to get back, there was a lot of reference to the link precisely because of the system, that is, the penitentiary with the units of local self-government, that is, cities and municipalities. And that's why I would finally say why the city of Požega had extremely good cooperation with the penitentiary, prisons, educational services in the field of labour organisation, prisoners and minors. Why has the city of Pozega donated financial resources to our criminal institution for years? First, because we showed concern for man’s dignity, especially those deprived of liberty, and thus helped him to train them more successfully for a later stay at large. That's the first one. Two, because we've got this very stable and safe I'll tell the conditional company with 300 jobs tied to Požega. And thirdly, because we're here, come on, I'm gonna say gold coke so with those 300 employees we had to look out for, we had to pet it because of it every year at the city's cash register, we're incasing cca. 3 million kuna, which taxes, which cuts what municipal fees and about the interaction of prison agricultural production, livestock production, metal workshops that I don't even talk about. Because that interaction with the city's economic operators means a lot to life in the city. So here's the connection to relations with local self-government units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56313	Ivan Shantek replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56314	Thank you. My dear colleague, I am pleased to agree that the lack of financial resources is one of the fundamental problems of the prison system. However, through all of my discussions, I actually want to ask one question. What seems to change the situation? If we look back at the budgets for the last 3 years, the projection for 2014 then we see that the prison system will get about 100 million kuna less than it did before. If we see from the report that 58 million 910 thousand kuna is uncovered from the previous year. If we had 86 million kuna in 2011 the prisoner's charges for poor conditions and the construction of the Sibenik Penitentiary and the prison would compensate. Then if we see further that by income structure, revenue from the budget is 92.48% and own income is only 6.67%. Then we expect here an answer as to what appears to be a prison system not collapsing. I didn't get the answer to that question and I believe you didn't get it either.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56315	The answer to the line, Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56316	I'm not here to answer my colleague's questions, that someone else will answer. But to be clear, it's true, I've read, I've read two reports carefully, I know what this financial situation means, we know what the financial situation is, what the crisis is, but there are also the reverse ones that should be used, and these are the units of local self-government that have very good benefits from the prison system. Well, in a crisis when we are, let's make a little effort, we'll all have more and the prisoners and the ones we're in prison for will be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56317	And finally, my colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56318	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, and here I am going to make it to my vote. This today's biennial, actually a two-year report for 2011 and 2012 is very interesting and very informative, it informs us well, points to the prison system, its action, purpose, purpose, goals and everything else and financial frameworks of that system. What's visible from these tables that we have here under the two reports, so one is 71 pages for 2011 and 2012. 99 pages of the report, so it's as if this 2012 report was expanded, where it's from the table, not the table as it says here, I don't think it's our Croatian expression, the table is Croatian expression, not the table. Obviously, there are some who write in another language in prisons or in that system. On page 86, the unsettled commitments on the burden of the state budget in 2007 were 15 million, and in 2012. 36 million to the penitentiary, prisons and other facilities in the prison system. Furthermore, it is good that on page 9 of the 2012 report it appears that the number of employees in the prison system has increased from 3004 to 3711 since 2003. For 2011 and 2012, the same number of employees in the prison system, so 3711, and the number of prisoners in 2011 was almost 300 compared to 2012, so now there were 4741 in 2012. What I especially want to say as members of the regional but Croatian parties is of interest, which is the economic background of the prison system. In fact, we all know that with the basic activity carried out by institutions in the prison system, prison and economic unit. Prison is an economic unit. If you see 4700 prisoners have 3700 employees, that's almost 0.8 employees per prisoner. That means that in prison with 400 prisoners, about 300 people would be employed. Now, when we look at the list of prisons, prisons, prison institutions in the prison system and if we had statistics on how much capacity there is in these five Slavonian counties and how many in the others then we would see discrimination and disproportionateness, regardless of the capacity of the prison in Požega, the penitentiary in Požega and the institution in Požega and the prison in Osijek. These are the only two prison units in the area of Slavonia and Baranja. When Lovrin Minister of Justice was Minister of Justice then we discussed and it was almost concluded that in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem there was no prison in Vrpolje on the three counties: Brod-Posavina, Vukovar-Srijem and Osijek-Baranja, but there was nothing of it because later I received a reply from the other ministers that it was a matter of public private partnership, which is such an easy solution and one answer to a representative who asked for such an opportunity to create a single and economic unit in the area of Slavonia and Baranja. I spoke to a man who was also from our county, and from Stara Gradiška where he was, here she is turning, was also a prison and penitentiary in the communist era, and also in another age which still has certain objects that have no purpose and outside of those objects that are the cultural treasures of the Republic of Croatia given some other things and where the Ministry of Culture invests in the restoration of these objects. Unfortunately, it is not thought about it, Stara Gradiška is like some banned city in Beijing, and there is nothing more to talk about, although because of the rebuke that someone likes to say or overbook in prisons, this could somehow be translated in Croatia, there is a load of 125% compared to the number of prisoners. This booking or booking if there were fewer and if we had made fewer crimes in Croatia, it would not be a problem to overbook it. Unfortunately, this trend is clearly continuing and we will be overbooked and further. So in these tables listed here on pages 88 and 89 of the 2012 report, the structure of the direct costs of prisoners is said to be the following. So I repeat, the prisoner's diet is 20.78 kuna a day. The State Statistics Office also calculated that people in Croatia average, so regardless of whether he was a telecom manager or was a manager in, yesterday we discussed banks or any other unemployed have an average, so when you take the average food consumption also 20 kuna a day. What can be concluded from this illustration or analysis or calculation? Either the average population of Croatia is at the level of the prison system or in prisons is so good that it is equal to the consumption of the population in the Republic of Croatia, on average. I speak on average. Since there are other forms especially of those forms, therefore repressive measures spoke of by Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic and where there are other forms of punishment or other forms of possibility where repression can be carried out in other ways than prison accommodation, and especially young people who then have in prison school to say crime with tough criminals if they are expensive. It is good, therefore, that the government policy of any, has no bearing on measures to reduce the costs and rationalise prison systems includes these forms, therefore repressive action in its actions to reduce costs but also to improve this part, this segment of the repressive apparatus towards some groups of people in society. Because of this, when we see that the expenditure on the burden of state budget funds in our prisons and penitentiary, so over 90% on the burden of the state budget, and because here in this report there are no number of prison facilities per prisons and penitentiary facilities, I would ask that at least the following report be carried out because it turns out if Slavonia and Baranja were suspended in that section that Slavonia and Baranja tax bonds actually finance staff in some other parts of the prison system. And why would that be? Why is that supposed to be? That's not how it's supposed to be. I know there's some tradition in Sibenik, Leprechaun, Pula, etc. But this is our country and we need to count on this for our region of Slavonia and Baranja. So I ask that the gentlemen of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia account for it a little more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56319	Ivan Shantek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56320	Thank you. Dear colleague, of course, I'd like to look back on the part of your exposure where you say prison isn't good. Of course, prison isn't good because man has two facts not being aware of until he loses them. One is health and the other is freedom. And any one who loses his freedom and I think I can say it here in front of you, because I know what it means to be on one side of the dam and what it means to be on the other side of the lock. So that's the greatest value a man has in life. But he doesn't know them until he loses them. Only when he loses will he become aware of it. However, the moment that the state, based on the law, deprives someone of liberty, takes care of his needs and all his human rights and that is exactly the essence of what Mrs. Ingrid, or colleague Ingrid-Anticevic Marinović, was telling. So whenever you look at the state of human rights in a country, the first thing you go around is that they're penitentiaries, prisons, then police stations, etc. etc. That was said by her own time and by her attorney, and I think it is quite justified that today, speaking of the prison system, we warn of things where fundamental human rights could be violated by persons deprived of freedoms for whom the state has taken full responsibility. I think it's the most important conclusion to come out of this debate today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56321	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56322	Comrade Shantek, since I've heard you weakly because of the marbles in the assembly, I agree with everyone you've said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56323	Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt's closing statement. Comrades and colleagues either enter the hall or speak outside the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56324	Thank you very much. Dear MPs and MPs thank you for your discussion, thank you for your positive insight into the methodological and structural concept of this report. The goal was to give relevant information and I think we did it. The goal, of course, is that this will result in focusing on the very segments of activity in the prison system that require the most activity, and they are already seen here today, so that I would have to point out that our commitment to rehabilitation, resociation and reintegration of prisoners remains firm. We are focused on reducing the number of prisoners through the sampling system and that system is already showing certain results. Because like I said and I'm going to repeat the figures in 2011 in the prison system there were 18088 people, and in 2012. 16743 persons, which is 7.43 less. The issue of building a prison is a question that affects and seeks the reality of life in which we live, such as the prison system is a reflection of real life in the economic, economic and social sense of our country's price, and so are the possibilities that the budget gives as it is and it needs to be realistic and, of course, it needs to experience those opportunities that we now have in view of the state of the budget. I'll do it again. Our goal is to rehabilitate, reintegrate and resociate prisoners, and we believe that we will achieve this through the sampling system and on all the indicators that have been reported on them will be to build our further criminal and penalty policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-08-0.u56325	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2011 and b) Report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2012. The debate on one report and another was concluded. I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2011 and b) The report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2012 is accepted." I'd like to make a statement on both reports. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that most 93 votes in favour and 24 abstentions accepted the proposed conclusion. Dear colleagues and esteemed colleagues first one notice. The chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the respected colleague, Peđa Grbin, convenes a committee session today on Friday 8th of November 2013 after voting in the building of the Croatian Parliament of the Hall of Josip Jelačić. I'm asking the board members to respond. All right, workgroups. The Committee on the Constitution calls for a working group. Good, that working group does, but the Committee on the Constitution. Dear colleagues and esteemed colleagues, I conclude the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament. I will see you at the meeting of the working bodies of the Parliament on Monday in preparation for the 10th session of the Croatian Parliament, which begins on Wednesday morning. Good weekend and every good weekend.
