ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49523	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The draft law amending and supplementing the Air Transport Act has been adopted, you have a final proposal on the table today and a few introductory words regarding this law allow me to tell you as follows. Therefore, the Air Transport Act and the regulations adopted under that law reached compliance with EU provisions and directives, which were essential for the implementation and completion of pre-accession negotiations with the EU for Chapter 14. Transport, however, in full membership of the European Union for the Republic of Croatia, the EU Regulations are fully binding and directly applicable and, consequently, the Air Transport Act also needs to delete the part which has taken over the normative content of the relevant EU regulations. I'm going to name some newspapers in this law that are inside. Therefore, the provisions of articles that have been prescribed working time, flight time and rest of flight crew members have been amended as this area is governed by EU regulations, and where this is not regulated by EU regulations, it is possible to adopt specific national rules under the Air Transport Act. The proposed amendments have been deleted from the provisions already contained in the Commission Regulation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3922/1991 on common technical regulations and administrative procedures applicable to commercial air transport by aircraft. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 1008/2008 on common rules for the provision of air transport services in the Community. The proposed amendments to the laws will then require entrepreneurs to comply with either the national rules adopted under that law or the EU rules. In this respect, one of the proposed amendments is related to the conduct of flight operations, depending on whether or not the operation they deal with is regulated by EU regulations. The proposed amendments avoid the need to amend the Air Transport Act in case new regulations are amended or adopted in the EU. Thereafter, certain definitions have been added or amended in accordance with the requirements of practice, applicable EU rules and... annexes, as well as improvements and precision of the text of certain definitions. The new competence of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure has then been added to inform the European Commission of the delay in the application of the EU rules when that possibility is provided for by this regulation, when it is deemed necessary to enable the application of the rules to prepare for its implementation. The possibility for Member States to postpone the application of the entire Regulation or certain provisions is becoming more and more representative in the EU regulations, so it is necessary to prescribe who is in charge of informing the European Commission in the Republic of Croatia. In line with the above, the new competence of the Croatian Civil Aviation Agency has been added to propose to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure to postpone the application of the EU rules when this possibility is provided for by this regulation. A new category has also been added in Article 7 of registered landing and take-off areas for the purpose of enabling aircraft operators from the so-called area. small or general aviation for private and sports needs and for the needs of aeroclubs. And appropriate nomotechnical harmonisations have been carried out, improved the text of certain articles of the law, and in accordance with the amendments to the material and legal provisions of the law amended the provision of powers for the adoption of the rules of that infringement provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49524	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do they want committee representatives, working bodies to take part, report? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We are going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Labourists, the Croatian Labour Club and the esteemed representative of Nenad Pleše are on their way. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49525	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This law is good and we will support it. In accordance with the requirements of practice, EU regulations specify some parts of the definitions, some definitions of what the deputy minister was talking about. However, I must warn of an expression related to Article 41, which states in paragraph 1, that the staff using radio stations must have the privilege to perform radio telephone communications on the permit. The terms of the privilege shall also be used in paragraph 2 where the acquisition of the privilege is determined by the programme. The word "privilegation" should be replaced by "authorization". Nowhere else in the Law on Amendments or in the Law on Air Transport itself, the term ‘priority’ shall be applied. As a category of certificate of knowledge and skills, only permits, authorisations and special powers are mentioned. Competent experts note that the issue of knowledge, the skills of using radio telephone communications through internationally prescribed phraseology in Croatia has become critical. In most of the reported air traffic threats over the past year, the most representative factor or counter-indicator of the event was precisely incorrect use of phraseology. The result is the abolition of systematic learning and the verification of the knowledge of phraseology in Croatian air traffic. Bringing knowledge and skills, radio communications and phraseologies into a legally unknown category of terms of privilege can cause further decline in the quality of use of phraseology and telecommunications, potentially leading to an increase in the number of air traffic threats. So I suggest that by the time this law is passed, it changes. And that accidents are a day-to-day component of air traffic tell us the facts about the frequent occurrences of errors and the current situation on Croatian airlines planes. The latest event in Zurich because of the inability to pull the front wheel only the ability and training of the pilot has prevented the tragedy of greater proportions. Mistakes on a guy's planes... They were frequent, but as the train staff also points out when they say that these planes are badly designed, and the stewardesses are also looking for an additional 1,000 kuna per flight on that plane because of the great noise, vibrations and frequent headaches. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For a regular annual review of this type of aircraft, it takes 25 days while for a much larger airbus only seven days. The prevention of aircraft landings due to the birds' flight to Zagreb, the return of a plane from Rome to Split due to the failure of the engine system indicator as well as the landing of aircraft in Vienna with one engine had no major consequences except for delays. Responsibilities, the application of a specific procedure, the crew's training prevented catastrophic consequences, and let's not forget that only a few months ago in the strike they sought their rights when they rebelled against the 9% wage cuts and the demand for better working conditions. The loss of 1.5 million kuna a day in this strike was not a problem, but meeting the labour requirements was certainly a problem. Quality personnel are leaving, competing companies, but management isn't changing. There will be no problem with a million-dollar point for the government's plane service that fell apart from corrosion and whose additional review has established 473 malfunctions. When we asked if the Government intended to sell the aircraft because of the difficult situation in which the Republic of Croatia was located, we received the answer not to consider selling. Perhaps you should consider selling now that the repair of 10 million kuna is worth a lot of airline tickets that the government could drive all year round. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49526	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It is up to the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49527	I would like to thank the esteemed President, the esteemed Deputy Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Transport Act. Immediately in the introduction of the SDP club, it will support this proposal to amend and supplement the law. It does not make any major changes, i.e. there is another harmonisation with the EU acquis. But at least in the public debate, and unfortunately right after that, some issues have been raised that burden the further development of civil aviation, especially in sports and recreational aviation, and which will no doubt need to be addressed, but a little more later. Air traffic law provides for areas of law, definition, bodies responsible for civil aviation, air traffic, airports, registration in the Croatian Civil Aviation Register, air traffic safety, air traffic management, accidents, serious accidents and aircraft accidents, safety and search and rescue events, civil air traffic protection, environmental protection, surveillance, security and administrative oversight, as well as the powers to adopt implementing rules, infringements and transitional and final provisions. This law also introduced the harmonisation with a large number of EU rules to implement and finalise pre-accession negotiations with the EU for Chapter 14. - Traffic. However, by way of full EU membership for the Republic of Croatia, the provisions of the EU Regulation are fully binding and directly applicable and, consequently, the Air Transport Act should be deleted from the part which has assumed the normative content of the relevant EU regulations. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the laws amend the provisions of articles which have been prescribed working time, flight time and rest of flight crew members because this area is governed by EU rules, and where this is not regulated by EU rules, it is possible to adopt specific national rules under the Law on Air Transport. The proposed amendments have been deleted from the provisions already contained in the Commission Regulation. 859/2008. of 20 August 2008 amending and supplementing Council Regulation (EC) No 3922/91. on common technical regulations and administrative procedures applicable to commercial air transport by aircraft. Furthermore, the amendments and additions to the Air Transport Act in question have been deleted part of the content of Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council. of 24 September 2008 on common rules for the provision of air transport services in the Community. These proposed amendments to the law also set out a series of harmonisations that required a new situation of full EU membership, according to which entrepreneurs will have to comply or national regulations adopted under this EU law proposal or regulations. In this respect, one of the proposed amendments is related to the conduct of flight operations, depending on whether the operation concerned is governed by EU rules or not. On the other hand, the EU is increasingly active in the adoption of new rules regulating the conditions for entrepreneurs performing flight operations. The proposed amendments avoid the need to amend the Air Transport Act in the event that rules are adopted or amended in the EU. Some definitions have also been added or amended in accordance with the requirements of practice, applicable EU rules and improvements and precision of the text of certain definitions have been made. A new competence of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure has also been added to inform the European Commission of the delay in the application of EU rules when that possibility is provided for by this regulation when it is deemed necessary to allow the application of the rules to be applied to prepare for its implementation. In line with the above, a new competence of the Croatian Civil Aviation Agency has been added to propose to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure to postpone the application of EU rules when that possibility is provided for. A new category of registered landing and take-off areas has been added for the purpose of enabling operations for aircraft operators in the area of so-called area. "small aviation" for private and sports needs and for the needs of aeroclubs. It is clear that all these changes in our legislation but also future changes in EU legislation regarding air transport are closely related to the Single European Sky project, which relates precisely to the EU air traffic management system. The Single European Sky initiative was launched in response to delays in air navigation that culminated in Europe in the late 1990s. The aim of the Single European Sky is to reduce the fragmentation between Member States and civil and military use and European airspace technology, thus increasing its capacity and efficiency in air traffic management and air navigation services. In its nature, the initiative is pan-European and is available to neighbouring countries, which also shows the important role that EUROCONTROL plays in its implementation. In practice, "the Single European Sky" should result in shorter flight times due to shorter corridors and less delays and, as a result, lower flight prices as well as less harmful air traffic emissions. Opinions are present that the implementation of the Single European Sky package so far is too slow, that the addition of packages are submitted with the intention of speeding up the implementation of the existing Interoperability Directive. The fact is that air traffic in Europe is growing daily and according to EUROCONTROL data by 2035, the European airspace will be stifled. The existing capacity of European airports is not sufficient and in 20 years we will find ourselves in a situation that we will not have the opportunity to manage 2 million flights, clearly unless we bring it into line previously. Due to the above mentioned project "The Single European Sky" is crucial for the future of air traffic because of its great impact on citizens and the additional value it generates in the economy, environmental protection, sustainability of the air industry and the ability to create new jobs. It is clear that Croatia supports the European Commission's efforts to increase air traffic safety and efficiency and reduce costs and negative effects on the environment, as well as demonstrates by implementing the proposed changes in the law. However, in order not to be without the questionnaires, I must stress that some of the objections that my colleagues from the club made during the previous assembly of the Parliament, i.e. when the Air Transport Act was passed on 3 June 2009, and in particular those made during the first amendments and amendments to the law on 7 July 2011, are unfortunately current today. Following a public debate held between 3rd and 18th June 2013, with regard to these amendments and additions to the law, the Croatian Aviation Federation submitted observations. In particular, the comments were sent on 26 June 2013 but due to respect for the procedure and because the comments were not sent on time they could not be considered when the final draft law was drawn up. On the basis of these remarks is the relationship between the Agency for Civil Aviation and the Croatian Air Force itself, which obviously burdens the development of sports and recreational aviation in the first place. And that's what I mentioned in the introduction. It is clear that this relationship has its own history and the applicant because of the time but also formal legal constraints was not able to resolve it in this proposal amending and supplementing the law. What the proposer has put into the draft law is a new category, and in this proposal it is clear that a new category of registered landing and take-off areas is available to aircraft operators for private and sports purposes and for the purposes of the airport. However, given the problems in sports and recreational aviation, the applicant found insufficient in response to the Croatian Air Force that in the fourth quarter of this year, activities will be launched for comprehensive amendments to the law and for the finding of complete solutions in order to better regulate the situation in civil aviation in the Republic of Croatia and one area in these changes should certainly be sports and recreational aviation. Here I would like to call once again on the Proposer to start the procedure and the law-altering activities as soon as possible and to resolve a situation that is not good for the development of sports and recreational aviation. The SDP club will support this proposal anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49528	Thank you, Your Honor. It is up to the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49529	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Sir Deputy with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is what my predecessors have said, in the introduction, the amendment and addition of the Air Transport Act is about this novel to harmonising our legislation in part of air traffic with the EU acquis, and in that part we do not have any objections, more specifically in the part in which this law accepts the obligation to comply with the EU acquis in the part where the directives are directly applicable to Croatian legislation. Well then, in that part, we can say that this change is technical, and in that part it is clear that such a law is acceptable. But here is a colleague, Vidovic, on behalf of the SDP club, I would say my disagreement with the non-acceptation of part of the remarks that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure directed to the Croatian Air Alliance at the moment, and that I am not saying that in Croatian air traffic at the moment, there are a lot of problems and challenges for the Croatian Government which, in our club HDZ, should have been perceived in a certain way in this law, and if not in terms of further improvements to the law itself, it seems to me that at least the opening minister or government in the assessment of the situation in the area of air traffic should have given certain indications, guidelines and answers to these challenges that are present in air traffic. But before I say about these challenges, I would also refer to the presentation of my colleague Vidovic with a small supplement that we do not consider in the HDZ club that because of the late submissions by the Croatian Air Force, which were submitted to the ministry after the discussion with the interested public had been concluded, there was practically no possibility of accepting such remarks by the ministry, so that the ministry would be later included in a new amendment to the law and such remarks that the Croatian Air Alliance had delivered to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Why doesn't that stand? For the reason that, according to my knowledge at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, a meeting with representatives of the Croatian Air Force and Civil Aviation Agency was held long before the opening of the debate with the interested public on 22 February of this year at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, where the very remarks submitted by the Croatian Air Force to the President of the Parliament and to the members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections of the Croatian Parliament where the same remarks at the meeting were to be drawn up by a joint committee which was then required by the Croatian Air Force to resolve what was not to be heard. So that the justification that they came after the discussion with the interested public was concluded by the ministry did not stand because these same remarks were on the bench of the ministry before, and I am not saying that in previous amendments of the law there were talks about these remarks. And what is this about when it comes to the objections of the Croatian Air Force? It is about the fact that the Croatian Air Force is concerned by the situation in Croatian sports and recreational aviation is looking for such solutions as in many EU Member States that they are simply implemented in Croatian legislation and in this Law on Air Transport in a way that the public authorities that are now in the Agency for Civil Aviation are transferred to the Croatian Air Force. I have said as is the case with a number of associations in the European Member States of the EU that such public authorities have since their national legislation and those with them can regulate this segment of air traffic relating to recreational and sports aviation. Well, then precisely because the agency does not leave such powers to the Croatian Air Force, there is a very difficult situation in that part of Croatian aviation. It is stated that in Croatia only 60 aircraft including Croatian airlines are to be serviced by about 82 civil aviation agency employees and another 30 employees of the ministry and the accident research agency. So they set an example only in the Slovak Federation of Recreative Flying has 370 registered aircraft, 550 pilot licenses, etc. mention Czech Republic, Czech sports recreational aviation. It is said that aircraft which cannot be registered in Croatia and around 700 flights across all continents are precisely for these reasons where the entire activity or field of sports and recreational aviation is carried out alone by the Civil Aviation Agency, without allowing the Croatian Air Alliance and in the part of the training of the paratroopers, the pilot of the sailboats can be edited if it is transferred to that national association if public powers are transferred to it. Therefore, there was time for us at the HDZ Club to seriously consider these remarks of the Croatian Air Alliance and, like Italy, the Czech Republic, France, Slovakia and other countries, to transfer or empower the Croatian Air Force to be able to regulate public authorities in that segment as well. So that's about this part that applies to us at the HDZ Club justifiable remarks of the Croatian Air Alliance. But also when we talk about air traffic, a colleague of Dance used to say that there are problems that seem to be being addressed by the government. We at the HDZ Club do not know that there have been many activities at the government's meeting, which the minister makes through numerous statements in Croatian media, and which statements he practically points to certain ways to address these problems in Croatian air transport. The safety aspects of Croatia's airports have already been mentioned in the past three days, three have been technical failures or indications of technical malfunctions on Croatian aircraft. So as much as Mr. Vodanović, on behalf of the ministry as the main Croatian aviation investigator, says there is no reason for fear of flying Croatian airlines, we hold that, however, since they are co-inciding in the last three days, they suggest that more attention should be taken to the air fleet of the Croatian national aviation company. And that these events in both Belgrade and Zurich and on a flight to Rome in a certain way point to an unsatisfactory state around Croatia airlines, and we hope that these are indeed incidents that will not happen again, but it would be good to also show the Ministry in this sense and in a certain way to direct a calming message to all Croatian airlines users and passengers. And this is exactly what happens at a time when the minister announces a tender for the sale of Croatian airlines by mid-October. So we will be witnesses in the next, at least according to the Minister in the next 15 days that, that a tender will be opened for the sale of Croatian airlines, how, in which way, the basis of which law, how the Government is considering the sale of Croatian airlines, here it is for us, as parliamentary representatives, and then I can think that the rest of the Croatian public is really unknown. Not to say what it's like to talk about further directions to the development of Rijeka Airport, what the orientation of that airport is. There are several strategic directions to the development of Rijeka Airport. This is what we in the Croatian Parliament are not aware of how and how the government intends to resolve the issue of Rijeka Airport, we are not familiar with it. It's about the sale, the sale of Osijek Airport. What are the terms of the sale? Who will be sold to? There is talk of a joint package with the privatisation of Croatia Airlines, etc., etc. So, a very large number of problems, it may be better to say the challenges to the Croatian Government but which in the way the government solves them in our way are not systematic and does not say that the Government has a clear vision of the development of air traffic in the Republic of Croatia. I asked the deputy minister from this same pay phone in front of the summer party when we discussed the Law on Air Safety in the Republic of Croatia today as parliamentary representatives and then clearly through this pay phone and the Croatian public to know about the events surrounding the concession of Zagreb Airport. Namely, as we are familiar with in early 2012 the process of concessioning Zagreb Airport was completed and the procedure ended on 11 April 2012 when the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Resorship Ministry listed a concession contract for the construction and management of Zagreb Airport. With this concessionaire contract, which is the French consortium ZAIC won the 30th annual concession for the construction of the Zagreb airport passenger terminal and the management of the existing and newly built terminal. Under the contract, the concessionaire's obligation was to draw up a plan to take over the airport within 6 months, to take over workers, to create a business plan, to plan a future organisational scheme, to get the concession provider's consent and to solve the financial structure for the construction of an airport terminal in Zagreb Airport. The contract was prescribed for these obligations for a period of 180 days or 6 months which expired 11, so a year ago, 11 October of last year and until then the concessionary failed to fulfil its obligations under the contract, but there was also a provision in the contract itself that if the concessionary failed to fulfil that obligation that the Government could extend that deadline by another 6 months which meant the deadline expired on 11 April of this year. And until then, the concessionary has not fulfilled its obligations at the beginning of the construction of the terminal itself, as well as the resolution of all these obligations such as the business plan, the takeover of workers, etc., etc. Of course, since then, there are almost six months that the deadline has expired. We do not know whether the Government is there, that contract and whether it has extended or at least we in the Croatian Parliament have not been familiar with it. But we learn from the media that this contract is extended to July 1st this year, which is not clear to us, but if it is extended in good faith to complete this investment, we would accept it even though we do not know the basis for the provisions of the contract itself or the law itself, and this new additional deadline is extended. It would be good if the government had extended the contract and implemented it, but neither did it, nor was the deadline respected for the minister to meet the Croatian public sometime in September that, given the problems in the realisation of the contract, the Government would request a new concession competition and the construction of a passenger terminal in Zagreb Airport. It was also said by Mr. Minister that when it comes to the airport, the construction of Zagreb Airport that there are problems in financing, building this project because that concessionaire, therefore the French consortium asks the Government, the Republic of Croatia for a guarantee for the performance of works. Well, here we are, personally, in the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community, really not clear on why the Government of the Republic of Croatia would give the concessionee the guarantee of building the Zagreb Airport. Because then a fully justified question arises whether, when the government guarantees the construction of the passenger terminal, such work on the construction of the airport and concession for 30 years could have given its own company to Zagreb Airport with a clear guarantee from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So there are a lot of questions that appear in the Croatian public about the construction of the airport, Mr. Deputy. It would be good for you to inform us about when the works on the construction of the airport will begin, is it true that the extended concession is past the contract signed by the government and concessionaires who do not comply with the contract itself? Is it true that the Government has provided a guarantee to a private concessionaire for the construction of a passenger terminal in Zagreb Airport. And finally, here is the latest information that is in the Croatian public these days, which is that a new contract is expected to be signed. I personally do not understand what the new contract is about when the contract was signed on 11 April last year and when the same contract was the content of a tender documentation that cannot be changed. The question also arises whether then some concessionaire knew what other concessionaries did not know, which is that the contract will change and will receive a guarantee from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Is that maybe if other competitors knew that, maybe they would have made a more favourable offer, and then maybe that contract would have been signed with another concessionary. So there are a lot of questions and doubts about the biggest airport in the Republic of Croatia and I believe that in this law too, especially in the opening part of the assessment of the situation or at least in the opening part, the deputy minister should be referred to both the situation in Croatia Airlines and the resolution of construction and problems in Croatian airports, especially those I mentioned earlier. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49530	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We've got a lot of replicas on your exhibit. The first replica and respected representative Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49531	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Bačić, only because of the true information of the public, so about not accepting part of the objections regarding the Croatian Air Force. So it is not practically a non-acceptation, the ministry as a proposing has responded very politely to the Croatian Air Alliance itself, even taking the obligation to go to total amendments to the law in the fourth quarter of this year. In fact, the comments themselves were sent out of the procedure, so when the procedure was already completed on one side. On the other hand, you can also see that this law is adopted by emergency procedure, and it is carried out by emergency procedure precisely to bring Croatian regulations, i.e. the safety of Croatian airspace, air traffic itself with European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49532	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49533	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Vidovic, it seems to me that the two of us agree in part of the justification of the Croatian Air Alliance's objections, but I have replicated in my opening statement on your position as you have said, which says the Ministry did not accept at this time, in this new law of the Croatian Air Alliance's objection because they arrived at the Ministry after the debate with the interested public which lasted 15 days and I said it was not true. Why? Because, in March this year, about five months before the Croatian Air Force itself asked for the reception of the minister, the meeting was held, were representatives of the Ministry of Civil Aviation Agency, representatives of the Croatian Air Alliance that then agreed on a way to address these problems in the Croatian Sports and Recreative Aviation. It has been agreed to set up a joint commission that should have been set up since then and until today, which is almost eight months ago, to prepare certain amendments to the laws that could be included in this law, although it is going according to an urgent procedure, because you will agree with me that eight months is enough to prepare something, so if the law goes in an emergency procedure as is the case now, when we bring it only after these amendments in order to bring the acquis into line with the acquis of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49534	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Mario Habek and next replica. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49535	Dear counterpart Bačić, here I am personally well-known about the public authority of the Croatian Air Force. I am surprised here that you are here today, even surprised that you spoke a lot about the Croatian Air Force, namely this same Croatian Air Force and the problem of public authority, has been dragging me to say so for many years, for sure for ten years. For eight years, these are the same people you spoke of today, asking you to solve the problem of public authority. They were countless times at a meeting in the ministry at which you were a member and did not solve the problem. And today here in front of a pay phone like it's something new, like you have no idea what you're talking about, you're talking about it like it's a problem that started overnight, and that's a problem that's been going on for 10 years. I believe that in the Croatian Air Force and Sports Aviation there are people who can, professional people who can do it, but let's let this government solve in its years or two the problems that you've been putting in the drawer for eight years and you haven't solved it, and today you're talking about it here as if it's overnight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49536	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49537	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Habek, it is not true that for eight years these problems between the functioning of the Croatian Air Alliance and the ministry are being resolved. In fact, a moment ago, you were also denied by your representative of the club who spoke in the introduction of this law, colleague Franco Vidovic, where he said that for the first time this law was spoken by the SDP club in 2010 when changes were made to the Air Transport Act itself. So that's one thing. The second thing, during that time, the legislation of the Republic of Croatia was harmonised with the acquis of the European Union, laws were passed that were then brought into line with then applicable legislation, and in that part all those obligations of Croatian aviation were largely resolved in relation to the establishment of the Agency, etc., etc. Today, the same agency formed for civil aviation is obliged by this law to leave such public authority to the Croatian Air Force, and after the establishment of the Civil Aviation Agency, problems arise because they do not lower their powers from the agency to the Croatian Air Force. So since the Civil Aviation Agency was formed, and not eight years ago, as you said before, problems in the functioning of sports and recreational aviation begin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49538	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49539	Thank you very much. A colleague of Bačić, you said the minister had not come forward about all this that is happening in air traffic in the Republic of Croatia, especially around the largest national airline, and it is strange that this law wants to be shown as one technical change, while the media's largest national company wants to be dumped practically in the mud. However, what we could not throw in the mud, which are capable Croatian pilots. It's a simple quality that no one could deceive. Whether the situation with the planes is like this or not, the minister could come to the assembly today. However, does this not seem to be the case that all this story is an excuse for future privatisation results, showing everything bad to say tomorrow let's be happy that we got that too. And another thing that just 1000 employees at the Zagreb Airport can no longer remain silent, which is what their destiny is. No one will tell them what is happening with them, what is their status on the termination of their work contracts they currently have with the Airport, what is their status with the future concessionary, and ultimately all citizens of Velika Gorica are interested in what will happen with Zagreb Airport. We could ask the same question, probably the Ossetians would like to know what will happen to their airport. It is also possible that citizens of Krka, Omisi, Rijeka will be interested in what will happen to Rijeka Airport. And maybe this would be an ideal opportunity for the minister to come to this High House and simply offer answers to some questions, and not every once in a while to show up on television, to give some sort of explanation that even the dear God doesn't understand. But I'm saying in the end, it all comes down to the fact that any money needs to be made, to sell the Buddha why just to patch up not to reduce the deficit, but to patch up the holes in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49540	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49541	I agree with my colleague Shuker with everything you've said. I therefore think that we should indeed congratulate this occasion on the ability of Croatian pilots who have done a great job with the accentes that took place on Croatian Air Agency aircraft. When you talk about employees of Zagreb Airport, there is certainly a concern among them already about the fate of all employees of Zagreb Airport. In fact, almost 9 months ago, the concessionaire should have given a plan to hire and take over employees of Zagreb Airport which has not happened so far. There are a number of questions about the concession of the Zagreb Airport where I expect the deputy minister to give his answer today. But in any case, we are interested in how and how to access the realisation of the provisions of the contract on the construction of the airport when that contract expired before, here is a 7, almost full 7 months ago. That is why it would be good for us, I said in my introduction, that the minister is on these problems in Croatian air traffic and when it comes to air traffic and when it comes to the fate of the Airport and Zagreb and Rijeka and Osijek, and I would say other airports, that this should have been talked about in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community Club said that during the privatisation of any infrastructure project in the Republic of Croatia and when it comes to the monetization of highways and when it comes to Croatian railways and when it comes to air traffic, that every project should be discussed here in the Croatian Parliament, and not through one law that is quite principled to talk about the fate of important infrastructure corridors and routes and projects in the Republic of Croatia, and at a small door through certain statements happening somewhere on the street, in front of the Government, talk about such important strategic projects in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49542	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49543	Well, dear counterpart Bačić, you have opened and reminded of many questions that are being raised about this issue of air traffic. You have well pointed out the unexplained circumstances of what is happening with the Zagreb Airport. Some of it was also spoken by a distinguished colleague of Shucker's. Perhaps we should remind here that the government in the last term also reached a conclusion by which up to 9% of the new society's shares have the right to acquire employees of Zagreb Airport, more than 1000 of them. It's one of the biggest companies in Velika Gorica. This conclusion was never put out of effect by the government, but it completely ignored it, which of course produces dissatisfaction from Zagreb Airport employees. In addition to the questions that are being raised today, the big question is whether the project that was in the tender documentation, whether it will be respected through construction, whether it has been changed in the meantime, but all of this together becomes interesting, given that this contract you mention has not been signed by then Minister Komadin, but has been signed by the deputy minister, although the law obliges the minister to sign it. So these are all questions that you rightly said should be discussed here in the Croatian Parliament and I think it is really unacceptable given these events which were that the minister today does not have to give concrete answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49544	Thank you very much. Let's move on. And you have an answer, okay. Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49545	Thank you, Mr. President. My friend Mesici, yes. The decision was made to leave 9% of the stake owned by the airport to the airport workers and employees of the airport for that matter. As far as I know, the Government has not changed such a decision, however, there is no longer any mention of the possibility of leaving airport employees a share in the management and ownership of the airport. If that were the only question you asked and I had asked before, then it would still seem easier for me to answer. But the question arises is whether the government can provide a guarantee for construction, construction of works for a terminal company registered in London for 10 pounds. And is it true that this same company that received the concession to build the Zagreb Airport terminal in the meantime, so the company registered in London for 10 pounds in the meantime asked the government to leave the concession to a new company called the International Airport of Zagreb, which is the daughter of the same company that received the concession for the construction of the terminal itself. Here's what interests us. I think Mr. Minister should come here to the Croatian Parliament and get to know the parliamentary representatives, because we heard in the Prime Minister's Report last Tuesday when he spoke about the state of the state and the nation here to the parliamentary deputies that in a certain way he praised the excellent work done by the Croatian government when it comes to concessioning and building Zagreb Airport because I quote, "The Croatian government has done its part in the project." The way she did it, here we are as parliamentarians would be very interested.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49546	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDSSB club and respected representative Igor Cešek. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49547	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Minister with assistant, respected colleagues and fellow MPs before us is the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Transport Act with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading. Emergency procedure of the bill, emergency procedure sent to the Assembly on 11 July 2013, and we are holding an urgent debate on it on 1 October. So much for the urgency of the procedure. Air traffic in the Republic of Croatia is governed by the Air Transport Act and other air traffic laws. Air traffic law provides for areas of law enforcement, definitions of bodies responsible for civil aviation, air transport, airports, registration in the Croatian Civil Aviation Register, safety of air traffic, air traffic management, accidents, etc. However, by way of full EU membership for the Republic of Croatia, EU regulations are fully binding and directly applicable. Following the proposed amendments to the laws, the provisions of articles prescribed working time, flight time and rest of flight crew members have been amended as this area is governed by EU rules. And where this is not regulated by EU regulations, it is possible to adopt specific national rules under the Air Transport Act. So this law practically brings nothing new but compliance with EU rules. But we all know that Croatian aviation has a 100-year tradition, practically since Slavoljub Pencala, which took off with its plane. The number of passengers using air transport is slowly and recovers from Croatian aviation. That is confirmed by the State Statistics Office. In fact, in the first three months of 2013, 314 thousand passengers were transported in air transport, which is 6.2% or 18 thousand more than in the same period last year. In doing so, the number of passenger kilometres has even increased at a faster pace, 6.5% to 212 million. On domestic flights in the first quarter, an increase of 11.7% per 90,000 passengers was achieved while in international traffic there were 4.1% more than or 224 thousand passengers. The air transport of cargo has also increased to 8.1% to about 1000 tonnes. Although such growth brings a sign of recovery, we are experiencing a certain paradox. It has been happening to us that in the last three days, we have practically constantly reported malfunctions on Croatian Airlines planes. Why is it like that and colleagues from the HDZ club tried to explain and answer the question. I agree with them, where the state practically recapitalised Croatia Airlines with a billion kuna today happens to us that often malfunctions occur, which means that Croatia Airlines is going to sell at a lower price because it is therefore not worth anything, as its planes are not worth it either. What's going on with Osijek Airport? Osijek Airport had no flights to Osijek-Zagreb until yesterday. She was the only one serving to land a fleet of mosquitoes off the Kopac ass. Since yesterday we have established flights as they say and announce three times a week in winter, and five times a week in summer. Is the number of passengers on that line Osijek-Zagreb going to be cut so that the airport that was mostly owned by the state would be sold or placed in a concession? I don't have an answer for that. What about sports airports? We know we have them in Croatia and they can serve very well to develop tourism in the Republic of Croatia. The sports airport in Osijek doesn't practically work, it doesn't work. And for 80 years at that sports airport, various sports aviation activities are being carried out continuously. There was an attempt to train small aircraft pilots where the same would affect the development of tourism and Osijek-Baranja County and the entire eastern region. We're getting to that paradox that the sports air force isn't in sync with the air force. We have examples, and positive examples, that's how S.H.I.E.L.D. drives for small aircraft. So there are positive examples of how you can do a nice job but all that's been going on lately reminds me of nothing but selling everything that's still worth it in the Republic. The HDSB club will support this bill because it is in line with EU laws, but there are problems to discuss and I hope that you in the ministry will give some answers to these questions, as these questions are raised by the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49548	Thank you, Your Honor. We have reports of replicas. The first replica and respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49549	Thank you, Mr. President. In his discussion, he said that Croatia Airlines is probably one of the motives of this kind of business and that it wants to sell Croatia Airlines. However, it seems to me that there should be another reason why such a situation is in Croatia Airlines, which is simply bringing in personnel leading on a party basis. According to what we heard at the beginning of this calls for the Croatian Parliament, that the ruling coalition wants people of trust, not professionals, so that one analysis of today's Croatian airlines staff shows that they are simply at the top incompetent personnel, and that they are the most able to be fired or forced to leave. And that is one of the reasons why you will then go with the the thesis that it is best to sell Croatian airlines. It is simply one false policy and a clear thing that in Croatia there are segments that are better and that are doing less business, but there is no such approach than with incompetent people wanting to destroy a good company.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49550	Replicate reply to the esteemed representative Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49551	I agree with my colleague, Tudjman, with everything you've stated. Well, we were our own witnesses, and you are aware that in 2012 when traffic fell in Croatia, some members of the administration asked for bonuses or supplements for their work. I think it was very inappropriate because if you're down and you're down, then you don't have the right to demand some sort of compensation or to split some profits when you're practically out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49552	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic and his replica. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49553	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Dear fellow Czech Republic you mentioned you actually touched one painful point, which is the sale of state property or the intention to sell state property. One business branch with a brighter perspective in Croatia is certainly tourism. In this tourism it has a very important role or needs to have air traffic, however, it is not in the interest of the Croatian state to retain its ownership of the national airline despite the fact that you were talking about some growth that is recorded in air traffic. Croatia airports as well as HPB, as well as Croatia's insurance, as well as Croatia's roads are on the drum. And when something is on the drum, you know that in Croatia first, it starts writing in the media that these companies can't get out of difficulty, and without being sold, that it lists at least 100 reasons why it should be sold and that there is no salvation, that the only salvation is owned, that the state is a bad master. So the same with Croatia Airlines, which is certainly able to have a future, but what I agree with my colleague Tudjman with people who know how to manage, with people who will not be party alike, but people who will certainly know their business as is shown in the example of Croatian banks, all banks in Croatia are led by Croatians who are very capable, but it was intended to sell banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49554	Thank you very much. Replicate reply to the esteemed representative Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49555	Thank you. Yes, it sells everything in Croatia. The state isn't a bad master if it's run by good men, if it's driven by good masters. The sale of Croatian insurance, the sale of HPB, the monetization of Croatian highways, the sale of Croatian airlines and everything else that is worth in Croatia. We'll be left with woods and water if that stays. Concession to airports, development of tourism yes, but foreign investors' money from that tourism. Therefore, Croatian citizens will not live better than in that part of tourism directly. They'll only live better by foreign capitalists who buy for practically no money what's left of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49556	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49557	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Czechs, you mentioned in your presentation of the surface on which practically aircraft land, take off or used for sports purposes that have not been recognized so far. This is precisely in this proposal to amend and supplement the law, the applicant recognises such areas and are placed as registered landing and take-off areas in order to allow the operation of aircraft operators for private and sports purposes and for the purposes of the airport. However, we must return to history again in 2004 when a decision was taken to transfer public powers from the agency and to this day these public powers were not transferred to the Croatian Air Force. And that's what's basically and what's the problem in this whole story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49558	Thank you very much. Any response to the replica? There isn't. We have completed a list of registered clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, we are moving to an individual debate of representatives for 10 minutes. It's the honorary representative Mirela Holly. She's not losing her right to debate this issue. The second is the respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49559	Thank you very much, President. So here I want to say a few words about the amendments to the Air Transport Act because the moment is such that I have to talk about the problems that have caught that kind of transport to the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that the national airline operator Croatia is in trouble, that, as we have heard for months, one cannon preparation is being carried out, I would say so, for the sale of the same, and that it has culminated in these last days and in heroism and accidents and everything that should be supported to support the public's willingness to accept one such, let's call it the operation of the Croatian government. Another sale of something owned by the Republic of Croatia where it has direct responsibility but also preserves a certain part of its sovereignty. Unfortunately, and we are willing to sell it or put it in the hands of others so that they impose on us then models, ways of connecting, efficiency, frequencies, prices etc., etc. Rarely, the state does, but Croatia is ready. We have the same thing in rail and perhaps the most potent part of the HZ Cargo railways we sell, sell to a stranger because we obviously don't know. And that's the fundamental problem of this law. We've got infrastructure, we've heard more about it today. We have 16 traffic planes, 8 airports, 20 airports, 80- or 60-odd airports, and I don't know how many small planes and a bunch of problems a sports alliance warns of, a Croatian airline that wants to deal with its activities. And he's coming into conflict with red tape. And they rightly warn about that bureaucracy, it's there, it's actually now and the supreme arbitration between let's say the interests of the state and those people who want to play sports. And what do we get? We are given the opportunity to address this through the amendment and addition of the Air Transport Act. There is a public debate that lasts 15 days, before we heard it, we had a meeting but no respect for wishes and always looking for the culprit who should have done some work at some point. The agency is right there, she says we're the only trained, the Air Force through its sections says we're also but they don't give us a chance and we're all in some kind of trouble. When we compare ourselves with other countries, the fact is that it works differently with them. There the state transferred its public powers to the alliance or to some associations and let that part of non-commercial that deals with sports, parachutery, I don't know all other activities develop in them acceptable way. With us, it all wants to be bureaucratic and we get what we've already heard. So for the last three years, the agency has banned the training of paratroopers, pilots and sailors at small sports airports and has shut down most of the small airports since last fall. Then the agency says we're not closed because only commercial flights can be performed there. So no air tax, no sports flight, no tourist panoramic flights. And we have a problem. Why can't we do that? Of course, then the agency says you're not trained. I will not exempt here the responsibility of the Croatian Air Alliance and there are obviously problems and therefore failed to impose on the state itself to respect them as equal partners. There may be problems in them, but there may be individual interests. There are other areas where interests conflict, such as public authority and some practice of sport. I will mention only diving and an unsettled full diving system in the Republic of Croatia where we have several ministries in power but still not the Diving Act. So then we happen to compare ourselves with other countries, with one Slovenia which is twice as small but there are more airports and airports and aircraft and of course we conclude that we are completely inefficient. Was there an opportunity to solve it here through these amendments and additions to the law? I think it is because here's how we hear they're already announcing the fourth quarter of the new one. Now we're in the third quarter there's no possibility in the fourth will be. If we are in line with the European Union and it has already brought it into line and has found ways to transfer these powers, public powers to sports alliances or associations, then it is clear to all that the opportunity here is missed. And what do we have in reality? Here I come from the island, in the Primorje-Gorski County we have a small airport in Grobnik, we have it in the Union, we have a smaller airport in Losinj and Rijeka Airport in Krk. Have we made any progress in, say, the past 20 years? We didn't. Even sometimes I think we were more capable in '91. and '92. the years when our national airline operator was formed and hired planes and bought planes to show its sovereignty and ability to manage the space ourselves and to connect it rather than what we are today. Although I'm saying we have 12 new planes but also a company that's in big trouble. In the Unions with Lošinj, we had a good pilot project with the county where the students were flying to Lošinj and returning the same day and it worked but unfortunately everything has its end, so again I tell the agency's decisions is closed. But again, I'm just saying some things, for commercial flights, obviously not yet. Some airports on islands such as Brač are also close to pointing out the applicable licenses or licenses for doing business. It's the same in Losinj. And we will certainly get into a particular problem at some point because when the problem is not solved in time in agreement with all interested people rather than showing strength or excluding those who would have anything to say about this particular problem. If anyone's got something out of it, it'll show time. I don't think this law has created assumptions that our air traffic is still developing in a positive direction, but I said we'll already give up on it, very soon the government will sell its powers to someone else in hand and the problems of sports, let's call it flying light planes and everything that follows will remain unsettled until some other changes. I just want to mention here a story that's been spinning a lot lately, and these are hydroplanes where we also have a problem in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Sea and the port administrations that we can't possibly establish on the desire of a foreign operator the possibility of taking off and hydroairy after 90 years we've already had and tried in these areas. It means that as a state, we don't go forward, but that we just either tap into a place or we go backwards, and that shouldn't be the task of every law and so not the one about air traffic. Here's so much from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49560	Thank you very much. We have reports of replicas. The first replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49561	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Kola Boric, perhaps this was an ideal opportunity for the minister and the finance and traffic to respond to this High House for a simple reason that there is no different business between Croatia Airlines and airports. Forgetting what was before 15, which was before 8 and what was today simply cannot happen to one company, but what everything here tells me is that I have to say something, and in the end, be suspicious that some potential buyers will not get information about companies as well as this airport competition that others do not have. It's very interesting that the minister is pushing one company, the question is whether anyone else in the environment might be interested. Second thing, let's take a look at the situation with the airline companies in our environment. Except for two or three big ones, they're all in a lot of trouble. Also, when we talk about Croatia Airlines, I think it would be fair for those people who do their job fair and quality to say that a bunch of lines as far as they and the professions were concerned would not fly but were flying because someone wanted them to, because simply some destinations were not connected, could not have been otherwise connected if there were no such lines, and on the other hand, citizens and even business people could hardly pay the right economic price.... So these are facts that simply don't need to be skipped, with all the mistakes that are happening. The one who's doing the right thing. Also remember the stories about the airport, only two of them will mention Split and Dubrovnik 7, 8, 10 years ago, what their financial results were, and what their financial results were when Croatia and the practical completion of the negotiations for entry into the European Union became a hit destination for many tourists who had never come to Croatia before without talking about low budget companies that practically fly directly to Zadar and Split and Dubrovnik today. The normal thing is that they've changed the financial results...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49562	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49563	Just one more sentence. And I think this story about Zagreb's airport is very, very dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49564	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49565	Well, here's my colleague Schuker, I think that in the debate, I've clearly highlighted the importance of our national airline operator Croatia Airlines because I think, regardless of all the problems that the state has to make as much effort as it has done and in the maritime sector means where we have Jadrolini, as it is trying to do in the Croatian Railways, even though I still don't like this move to sell HZ Cargo as the most potent part of that company and then thus giving up its own opportunities to affect the space it connects within its borders. Whether something is worthwhile or not, of course that state can or does not have to find its own interest. But yesterday's example, the first flight between Osijek and Zagreb, where the state subsidized it with 9 million kuna, is something that should be welcomed and based on the opportunities of the company itself. No one is against it and no one thinks that money is then even thrown away if the possibilities exist. And that is why it is very important for such a national operator to remain owned by the Republic of Croatia, not to be given to others. I say this law doesn't really talk about it, it's a story about something else, but I think we have to talk about it, and it would be okay if the minister were here and it was clear to all of us in the Parliament, and then to the Croatian public, explain what he really means by it, because if it's going to be dealt with on the side, away from the eyes, as the story of the monetization of the highway is announced, if we give up some kind of sovereignty there's a question in which direction really is when we talk about the overall traffic policy in the Republic of Croatia we go as a state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49566	Dear Representative Miroslav Tudjman and a new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49567	Thank you, Mr. President. You have rightly asked a question, or you have brought this law into contact with the sense of small aviation or sports airports, because it is a presumption of development and tourism at all, otherwise for Croatia's development, especially what can happen to the richest clientele, and Croatia can develop these tourist facilities throughout the year. However, why there is nothing in this law, or why it cannot be discussed accordingly, simply because we do not have an analysis of the situation. And here I would like to remind you that we have suggested that an analysis of the situation comes as a assumption that any law could be discussed that it must be proposed by anyone who is concerned with bringing an analysis of the situation. There's nothing here called a state-of-the-art assessment, which is simply insufficient. On the other hand, in our Rules of Procedure, Article 174 states: In addition to the draft law, the applicant will also submit a report on the consultation with the interested public. There is neither in this nor in most of the laws that are in front of us so that it would be worth considering asking the proposings to respect the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and that everything that is required to be included in the proposals of all laws, rather than avoiding it. Especially what we were looking for before, that the analysis of the situation can't be, and it would be good if it were so that we could discuss it properly....
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49568	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49569	Thank you very much. Comrade Tudjman, I warned you about this, and I said it, and we heard it from the SDP club that they too have such information and a remark that there was not enough good communication. The public debate 15 days in 6 months did not seem to satisfy all interested parties and then the position came that said goes as the ministry says, and we give you the opportunity to hear through an article on the runways as a registered runway as a solution to the problem of the closure of these small airports. That doesn't satisfy them because it's obvious that longer has the ban on schooling been in effect what I've already said to paratroopers, pilots, sailors at small sports airports, that these airports are small shut down. Micro-light aviation airports, micro-light aircraft, motor dragons, motor parachutes cannot even be registered, and pilot schools are obviously moving to Slovenia because it is much easier to register properly there. We are forced that pilot training can only be done in larger airports, and then we have a problem that can't be done there for the safety of flight and commercial flights that are daily on those airports and we come to the point of turning around again, and we haven't solved the problem. And an alliance with law may warn of a large number of administrations that are in charge of it, which is twice as big as it may have been in that former state on a much larger number of planes and airports and everything else and we haven't got a solution. Of course, we don't have an analysis, and we as Parliamentarians need to agree on our own and pay our thanks to God on the Internet, so there's a lot of things that we can compare and come up with certain data, but the fact is that this law hasn't answered perhaps important questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49570	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It is up to the honourable representative Boro Grubisic and his debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49571	Mr. President, I must say that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Air Transport with the final proposal of the law is here on this day of October 1st, slightly coincides with the phenomenon in the state, which is the losses of Croatian airlines, the sale of Croatian airlines, the Zagreb Airport investment yes, no, the concessionary yes, no, which, when will the works begin. And these frequent to say malfunctions, mildly said or otherwise accidents that occur with the planes of our domestic airline Croatia airlines. Therefore, it is very strange or symptomatic that coincidence of these events, including these discussions in the first point of emergency procedure. It is clear that this is a alignment with EU air traffic regulations and it is clear that no one here in this assembly will be against it. But it is also an opportunity to talk about everything that is going on in our air traffic, airports, and as part of a total non-existent analysis, so the overall transport policy of the Republic of Croatia, which is in such a place, all say excellent for everything possible, so for all possible means of transport, starting with railways, rivers, sea traffic, air traffic, road etc. However, we are in this position to say perhaps a favourable geostrategic position we have a problem with both airports and our domestic carrier who is in losses and who, according to the media, mostly those who said I would not say regimeally but so the sub regimeally constantly passes the thesis that it is in losses, that we cannot have such a company etc. Even though I've been flying her for over a year, there's been no problem. The Zagreb airport is actually a mirror, because when you come to a country what you see first is an airport mirror and state. The domestic airline is clear that, as in all state-owned companies or majority owned by the state, there is a government that is currently in place. There are similar frames as Comrade Tudjman said, not capable or professional personnel. And then here we have a flight of pike, a flight of planes, that's how this works. So is Croatia Airlines. It needs to be sold, it needs to be rid of this investment a billion kuna a year in Croatia airlines to relieve the state and charge the budget because it is out of the billions and a half of dollars that Linic is going to America to be nothing for Croatia airlines. There's something else to settle. In the list of our airports, we have six airports at sea. Clearly, tourism needs require it. I would say central Zagreb Airport and one continental airport. It's Osijek. It is similar with universities in the Republic of Croatia. We have five or six universities at sea and one on the continent. But good. Tourism as a strategic branch, agriculture is obviously not even the fall of the Minister of Agriculture to declare it strategic or to take care of it, so at least some tourism through these airports is booming. But we have a problem here, too. Now, the minister has hooked up with the principal or as it is already called Zadar Airport, which has achieved with its pledge and knowledge of the great traffic this summer at Zadar Airport and is now the problem with some 100, 200000 kuna payment of the managerial prize. Right? And so, I will not always have to say affairs, but something like that, and all of this actually leads a little bit to raise hands of everything and give it up as we will monetize Croatian highways, and then we will also give up Croatia Airlines and Zagreb Airport and everything else in air traffic. In the sports section to say airport we have 12 airports. So, 12 sports airports to say. There are 2 of them on the continent, one in Osijek, or Chepin, and the other in Slavonski Brod. They are mentioned in this team and even in this legislative proposal and military airports and says this is how we have 1 located in Shepurins, so Zaton Catastrian municipality or municipalities and we have 1 airport in Udbina. These are 2 military airports although I think that this airport Zagreb is the main airport to tell the Croatian Air Force of 2 moments as far as we already have. But we don't mention here in any word what we actually have at least half. I don't think half of Mostar, but I'm talking about half of the airport's wish at the border between BiH and Croatia, which is still a problem that hasn't been solved territorially yet. Half of the runway belongs to BiH and half of Croatia. And Jelja is 2 km from Plitvica airport from our National Park Plitvice. And it could be great if she had the brains to have visions of the direct arrival of tourists on Plitvice. However, since there is no coordination between saying ministries and ministers and no vision here then there is not even mention in these materials such or this airport of Zelja near Bihac in fact but it belongs to Croatia by territorial demarcation, and half of BiH although it could serve both together. Of course, as colleagues of the Czech Republic have already said on behalf of the HDSSB Club and I will vote for this law but I must mention something that no one here has said or has been silent or we have forgotten. That Croatia Airlines this year still seems to have been recognised in March this year as the firm with the most polite and almost safest as the safest carrier. Is that familiar to you? The safest carrier with the nicest staff, with the best to make an offer on the plane itself, from food and everything else. Yeah, yeah, she got a confession this year. And here, today we are talking about losses, sales and everything and we are silent about that Croatia Airlines has just won and earned such a prize because it is international, it is not a domestic prize. So, what do you do? The guidelines of this government know how they're already going towards everything here's what's left and what's in the government portfolio and state property. 60 is a company in the Republic of Croatia, a strategic firm of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia, which is also being resolved strategically. I won't say which but you know it well. Well, here's actually a contribution, this and the law, but this debate leads to that we're a little bit of me saying I wouldn't say "supervised" but somehow I'd say it's a done deal and we raise our hands from both Croatia Airlines and Zagreb Airport, or it's a concession like highways, as well as a large majority of what our ancestors, parents, grandfathers and all the others have acquired for hundreds of years. Unfortunately, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49572	Thank you, too. The Honorable MPs are in line for the replicas. The first replica and respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49573	Thank you, Mr. President. You spoke about problems in air traffic, airport number, air connection etc., etc. One of these airports you have instructed is Dubrovnik Airport, which for Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County residents is the main and basic traffic route, given the lack of completion of the Pelješka bridge, given the lack of highways, given the traffic isolation of Dubrovnik Airport Dubrovnik is practically becoming an exit to the world of Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Even in that sense, the Government had a few days ago if the Deputy Minister could confirm that it had opened a tender for conducting domestic air traffic, cabotage in the Republic of Croatia, and for Dubrovnik it had scheduled 22 trips a week, at least 2 a day. That's what the government's competition says. And I'll tell you right away how little it is, best spoken and, for example, yesterday where one airbus transports about 160 passengers and on that line is, since Dubrovnik is the tourist destination in which it comes most by air, it is generally of 160 seats 120 pre-booked and sold to tourists who come to Dubrovnik. For the domicile population, about 40 tickets were secured that way, and you usually know which ones? Business class. Because domestic travellers do not plan a trip for months ahead as it agencies for their tourists and you are practically forced to have little space on board and if you get it and if you are happy to get it then you must and you are forced to buy a ticket in the business class. And instead of increasing that air travel frequency towards Dubrovnik, the government is further reducing them. 2 daily departures from Dubrovnik are too little for Dubrovnik-Neretva County and I would say for all of Croatia. That is why often our cry here from the Parliament for confirmation of the completion of road infrastructure towards Dubrovnik-Neretva County is primarily the Peljega Bridge and then the continuation of the construction of the highway from Ploč to Dubrovnik is simply a dry need for the inhabitants of Dubrovnik-Neretva County because this attitude towards Dubrovnik is indeed inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49574	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49575	I'd like to compare it to what you said to an example from Slavonia, to translate it. has a village of 30km, 35 from Slavonski Brod far Slavonski Kobaš which has two bus lines a day with Slavonski Brod, so there are 3 thousand inhabitants, 2 bus lines trains, one morning, one evening at 8 o'clock. So Dubrovnik, Dubrovnik, which we heard about as soon as this government came to power that it would stop building the Pelješko Bridge and go through Neum. And that was categorical, and now suddenly they've changed the board to say so in a folk way. Otherwise, there is really nothing left for the time being for Dubrovnik except for this air connection at Dubrovnik Airport or Cavtat, more specifically, with the rest of Croatia. It might be good if there was a conductor driving Klek-Peljesac every half hour, so it would be best not to touch BiH's territorial pretenses or anything else, which are now messing around and loudly alluding to some sea open, etc., some kind of its own instead of a Slovenian chimney that we also have a Bosnian chimney, so it will be a Montenegrin chimney and it will be a chimney yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49576	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49577	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague Grubisic you spoke of privatisation, concessions and by me would be a logical thing if the minister were here today, to tell us something about Zagreb Airport for the simple reason that thousands of people are doing there, which several hundred people are in escort services in the airport building and which is certainly dozens or we can tell hundreds of craftsmen what goričkih is doing now to Zagreb airport. And the logical thing would be, given that clearly certain conditions of the contract have changed, that the minister tells us that the new concessionaire is looking at the future and seeing that airport for the simple reason that very few people here in the assembly know that in a year or two more on those x-rays when entering the aircraft will not stand Croatian police officers. There will be some private companies, such as in most airports in the world. So that's a series of questions that were time to talk about them today, life issues. Because look, these thousands of people working at the airport are asking them to break up the contract with the airport. How and under what conditions will they sign contracts with the new concessionaire no one knows. They assure them they have no right to severance, no matter what collective contract they have the right to do. A lot of Goricans and Siscans that will finally be with that tour that's being built, which is being built and someone doesn't want to open it. I am now unable to take the impression that the same ones who filed a criminal complaint against the Minister who took the building permit and hands and legs in 2006 are struggling that this project, which for the city of Velika Gorica, is invaluable, is a key infrastructure project towards Zagreb Airport. So a series of questions that even we who live in Velika Gorica can't get an answer, and maybe it was time that today if we didn't know anything else, we'd have an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49578	Thank you very much. It wasn't about the subject, but good. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49579	That my colleague Shuker and I agree that together we think that man and donkey are smarter than man himself. But there are some who do not think so, so they make the decisions of the regulations, regulations and regulations themselves without this Croatian Parliament and those who have been chosen by the Croatian people to represent it here. As for Velika Gorica and the Zagreb Airport, you were there as well as the mayor and let me tell you howling about Velika Gorica, so agree with the rulings about the bypass and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49580	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Let us continue to work in order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49581	Dear counterpart Grubisic would be logical to have a minister here and to answer many questions that have been raised today or many doubts to explain to us what will happen to Zagreb Airport, which will mean in future development of the Republic of Croatia. But in politics there seems to be no place for logic, I guess we've already learned that, what seems logical in politics is not logical. State governance needs to be dealt with seriously, so the minister should also give answers to what he wants with air traffic. Is there an air transport strategy in the service of, say, strategic economic activities, which is tourism, is there an air transport strategy in the island's resuscitation service, as previously said here? However, this law is passed without a strategy, because it should be logical first, and we said that logic has no place in politics, a strategy and a strategy to pass the law. and not bring the law and then babble in the dark because there's no strategy. Has anyone calculated what you're getting, what gets lost with or without an air grid? What do you get, you get lost without an airport, you get to lose without Croatian airlines in state hands? If they gave us some data, if they gave us some kind of analysis, then we could discuss it better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49582	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49583	The first sentence I said by my colleague Vuksic in my debate is that air traffic must be and should therefore be in operation throughout the entire transport policy of the Republic of Croatia. So traffic policies, so here I am also talking about sea traffic, the transport of freshwater, river transport, so river transport, rail transport, road traffic. Clearly, air traffic also takes its part and has its part, starting from tourism to the development of sports aviation, and finally we have agricultural aviation or aviation and finally this military section that I was also talking about. But to do this, first of all, we need to have an idea before the strategy, so the idea of how to do it and what to do in Croatia. Secondly, do a parchment or as Comrade Tudjman said and then bring a strategy. And there's no strategy anywhere in agriculture, so neither this air traffic nor, which is the strategy, let's sell everything and good. It's a strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49584	Thank you very much. As far as logic is concerned, they taught me that there is a sick and healthy. There's no third. Okay. On behalf of the motionary, Deputy Minister Zdenko Antesic, please choose the final one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49585	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and representatives of this House. I listened very carefully to the debate on the subject of this law and, in fact, the main theme in all the debates was mainly about the problem of the so-called problem. Recreative-sport aviation, or small or general aviation, depending on what anyone calls it. And I think that the comments made on this topic are largely in the ministry when the amendments and additions of this Law are announced, we will carefully consider and put most of these remarks into the new law. However, I would just like to highlight a few facts that are not mentioned here, which relate to this issue, i.e. the problem of small aviation that is within the law, so in the law which was in force from 2004 to 2009, the provisions which have included powers and powers exactly, the powers of which we have spoken or which were the subject of these discussions were incorporated into the Law in such a way that these powers, that these powers were conferred on the Croatian Air Force. So, by amending the Law of 2009 and the Law, these are the powers conferred on the Agency and you know that the Agency was founded in 2007 and started operationally with its work in 2008. So it has proved that it may not be the happiest solution, so we will, of course, be able to discuss with representatives of the Croatian Air Alliance with which we have already held several very constructive talks and their remarks will certainly be carefully considered and included in the new law that we are announcing right in the fourth quarter of this year. By then, here are the actual amendments and additions to this law are mostly based on alignment with regulatory and property, the legal property of the European Union that we are... harmonize and this is done with one small exception that in this relatively, I am relatively emphasising the short time still introduced into the law by this new provision introducing unregistered areas for take-off and take-off and which, in some ways, I am a little underlining this issue of general aviation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49586	Thank you, too. Dear Deputy Minister, we have a single report. Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49587	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister, it is not true that this debate prevailed, views prevailed on resolving the public powers of the Croatian Air Force. That was part of the debate. It seems to me that Kudikamo is more serious were the issues of representatives who referred to the position of airports, their fate, and in particular we asked a series of questions about the fate of the concession and the construction of a terminal in Zagreb Airport. I think that you as Deputy Minister should answer the parliamentary MPs four questions. The first thing is whether the government extended the concession to the concessionaire, which expired on 11 April this year and if it is based on what extended the concession. The second question, did the government give a guarantee to a private concessionaire who gave the concession to build a terminal at Zagreb Airport, because then That's the theme, I would, Mr. President, I'm saying what it is, which the MPs in their discussions pointed out and it's important for, and it's very important for air traffic in Croatia. [[/Intruder: A colleague of Bačić is not the subject of this law. I have to say in the end.]] And the third was whether there was an amendment to the concession contract which was an integral part of the tendering documentation. And the fourth question was what with the fate of employees of Zagreb Airport, whether the government still intends to remain in the position that 9% of airport ownership will leave employees and what fate it is around their further status when they are taken over by the concessionary. I think these questions are very important. We are also interested in representatives and the entire Croatian public. And that this law is the right subject of talking about these very problems, not only what the law wrote but also what the law did not write and should and should be an integral part of the amendment to this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49588	It is not covered by law and is not the subject of this debate. But the important ones are, it's not controversial. But you know, you've been an old advocate with experience for a long time, and you know how topics are proposed for discussion in the Croatian Parliament. Do you, it won't do anything. That's when the debate on the text of the law ended. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We would now move to a decision on the debated agenda points in the Croatian Parliament. First is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Transport Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 446. The debate on the final bill is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Honorable Representative of Nenad Pleše. I ask that the representative, deputy minister's representative, the respected Zdenko Antesic, be shown about the amendments. First on the Committee on Legislatives, Amendment number one to Articles 16, 18, 68 and 71.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49590	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is fully accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49591	Sustained. Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No 2 to Article 50
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49592	The amendment is not accepted for the following reason. The word "privilegal" has been proposed instead of the word so far: "authorization" for compliance with European legislation. The European regulations clearly prescribe what is the authorisation and which all the powers are possible and of which there is no derogation. RT is not an authorisation, since the authorisation by its definition must have its validity, i.e. the expiry date and the prescribed method of extension and renewal. This RT privilege is not a prescribed way of extending and restoring, but is prescribed through national regulations. We therefore consider it necessary to use the word "privileged" correctly. So in all forms, Air Force personnel permits...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49593	Your Honor, Deputy Minister, do we understand each other?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49594	We did.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49595	On the same Legislative Committee Amendment No 2 to Article 50.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49596	We didn't get along.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49597	We didn't understand each other, yes. We'll do it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49598	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49599	Sustained. Thank you very much. Amendment number three of the same Legislative Committee to Article 77, Deputy Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49600	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49601	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. That is how we accepted the amendments of the Legislative Committee. We're moving on to the amendment of Honorable Representative Nenada Dance. Amendment number one to Article 41.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49602	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49603	That's an explanation you gave earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49605	You can, we have time. Let's do it again. We've got time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49606	Thank you very much. Therefore, the amendment is not accepted with the following explanation. The word "privilegal" has been proposed instead of the word "authorization" so far because of compliance with European legislation. The European regulations clearly prescribe what is the authorisation and which all the powers are possible and of which there is no derogation. RT is not an authorisation, since the authorisation by its definition must have its validity or expiry date and the prescribed method of extension and renewal. It is not prescribed for the RT privilege to extend and renew but to prescribe the method of acquisition through national regulations. We therefore consider it necessary to use the word "privileged" correctly. Thus, in all forms, the permits of aviation personnel prescribed in European legislation clearly states that RT privilege, radio, telephone... and not authorization... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we cannot accept this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49607	Thank you very much. I'm asking the applicant of the amendment, the esteemed representative of Nenad, to dance to be seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49608	So I'm not happy with the answer, because in Article 41 of this law, the staff using the radio station must have the privilege to perform radio telecommunications. The programme shall also set out in paragraph 2. Somewhere else in the Law on Amendments or in the Air Transport Act itself, the term of privilege is not applicable. So it's a real termological precedent that's unnecessary. The question arises as to what is the legal weight of the term of privilege. The EU legal system does not use a term of privilege. In Great Britain, the term is used, but in speech and termological terms, the spirit of the language has a different meaning than the word privilege in Croatian. Please vote on the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49609	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. The first respected representative of the Nenad Dance, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. Article 62 is replaced by the following: Deputy Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49610	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49611	Thank you very much. Honorable applicant for the Nenad Dance amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49612	I didn't think that the first proposed amendments I'm going to make in this House would be accepted but the same explanation as the amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49613	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49614	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49615	Please state the amendment No. The 2nd Honorable Representative of Nenad Dance, whom the Government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. Three of the same respected MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49616	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49617	I'd like to ask the applicant for the amendment of Honored Representative Nenad's Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49618	The same explanation as in Amendment No. 1. With this acceptance, i.e. in terms of foreign words in Croatian, there is complete confusion, especially in air transport telecommunications. Once the subject of phraseology was used and the teacher actually retired after that was conducted by flight instructors. Because of the incorrect application of phraseology, it means that in the aviation industry itself between pilots and flight controllers there is often confusion and most often the contributors of the aviation event factors mean that it is negative in the context of not applying phraseology in the same way as it should. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49619	Thank you very much. Say it harder because you can't hear it. Please state the amendment No. The 3rd Honorable Representative of Nenad Dance, whom the Government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the required majority by grading. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 88 votes in favour, 44 votes, have been abstentions to the Law amending and supplementing the Air Transport Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. And now we're going to move on to the next agenda points according to a proposal from the representatives' clubs. We will bring together the debate on the following three items of the agenda, all three of them bearing the title Final Proposal for a Law amending the law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. So - Final draft law amending the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 480 - Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia You received the proposal in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on this proposal was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. - Final proposal for a law to put an end to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 477 - Proposer of 1/3 of the Croatian Parliament You have also received the proposal in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. And this bill of law was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. The government will orally expose its position during the debate. And third law - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, first reading, PZ No. 458 - Proposers of the Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosor and the representative of the HGS Proposal for this law, you also received the act by mail. The government of the Republic of Croatia will make an oral position on this law. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 183 to 188. The debate was also carried out by the working bodies and by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Please, in turn, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of the Honored Minister of Justice to give an introductory explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49621	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. So there's been a lot of talk, and now we're down to two articles that are in front of you. The first paragraph of Article 132(3) is deleted, therefore, that provision restricting the time application of the European arrest warrant to criminal offences before 7 August 2002 and the second entry into force of that provision on 1 January 2014. Why first, I don't know what more to add to the debates that were. You know, when I defended the law here in the House that I said there was one legal doubt whether we could go with it or not, whether we're going to be entirely consistent with the acquis or not, that's something we discussed. I still think that we were brought into an unfavourable position because other countries could put it on, we did not even open it through negotiations, unfortunately, and now that we tried to rescind this situation, it just didn't work out, and that's why we decided to change the law. So that's the position we took somewhere in July. Then the question arises when and about it was, in fact, the most reluctance because I say this first was not even questionable. When? The request was immediately now within three days, within one day, I have no idea, and you have proposed on one side some commissions etc. We were first told on July 15th, then we talked to the commission and we agreed, so they stepped away from those now, right, three days, etc., we shortened this deadline for entry into force and we came to January 1, 2014 and that's why that deadline is ahead of you. I don't have any further explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49622	Thank you very much. Let me write down who picked up all the replicated tiles. Let's get this straight. First replica and respected representative Zeljko Reiner, vice president at home.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49623	Your Honor, Mr. President. Well, first of all, I have to say that I'm really surprised by the fact that we've been discussing a subject that the whole public has been buzzing and discussing for months. All the media is full. Croatia has almost been sanctioned for this, it may be re-enlisted if it tries to play it again as the government suggests, and I am now looking here at the Assembly of the ruling virtually no. Does that mean as always that it's all over, that it's a fait accompli and that actually it doesn't matter what we in opposition say. Speaking to me or not, they're going to vote again the way the government wants them to and what it's been all these two years. However, what I would like now is for the distinguished minister to respond, and that is to finally get a clearer answer, we MPs, but also the Croatian public, without the flossules, without big sentences etc. First, which is why the text of the law is how it was negotiated and how it was signed. And secondly, now after all that has happened, the government has persistently refused to return the text of the European Arrest Order Act to the way it was before the change, i.e. as negotiated with the EU and signed. Surely, no one can take away the impression that the government does not want to do so simply to try to replay the obligation to extradite certain individuals. If I get an answer like I'm trying to convince the public that the EU only asked for a change in an article That's not true. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49624	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49625	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, in your very short opening part, you tried to convince us that this is an irrational topic, and you put it in the end, and in your bill, assessing that this law will not need to be provided for even the June in the Croatian budget. That's just not true. Minister Linic will pay a minimum of $30.40m more than they would pay without this law in the coming years for this debt of a billion and a half dollars. Why? Because it's money, you can laugh as much as you want and it shows simply your thinking and the unconscious damage you've brought to this law. Money is just like any other. And every dealer who sells his goods wants to make money. Be assured that all investors will want to use the gaffe of the Croatian prime minister and Croatian government to raise interest rates not only because of fiscal projections that are as desperate as they are, but also because unfortunately they serve us in a country where legal uncertainty and a state that does not stick to what it has signed. And this law simply shows that we do not stick to what we have signed in the Accession Treaty with the EU. Therefore, there is no fact that this law does not require resources. For this law in the next 10 years only for these issued bonds that will come now in the next 15 days, 20 days Croatian taxpayers will have to allocate a minimum of 30, 40 million dollars more in the name of an increased interest rate, and you, Mr. Minister, can laugh because you obviously don't care.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49626	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49627	Thank you very much. Well, I just want to ask you a few questions. Are you at session 13.6 in your famous 39-second speech explaining why the government should be caught, i.e. accept this law knowingly lied to Croatian citizens, and you said quote, next. "It is a matter of technical harmonisation. We actually made a technical adjustment. We now have a law that is fully adapted to the EU." These were your words in an explanation of why the government should adopt the law and send it to procedure. Do you know, then, that you have lied and that you consider it necessary for this as a person who is at the head of a very important resolution, that is, the Ministry of Justice that you should submit any conjunctivity to this because only after 7 days here in the parliamentary debate have you indicated only in the final address that there is a small dilemma that we will try to clear up. Do you think so? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49628	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49629	Dear Minister, you said, just before a sentence in a very short exposé. We didn't even all get the tiles to lift so long it took us so long to put us in an unfavourable position. So, the Republic of Croatia has been placed against other members, on the other 27 countries, in an unfavourable position. First of all, I think we put ourselves in an unfavourable position. When you said doubt, I was at that debate, I was always discussing that afternoon, always quietly something when such problems are on the agenda, then quietly in the afternoon or in the evening in the dark almost discussing such things. I wonder why you haven't opened an expert debate since you saw that there have been major problems with the European Commission. You didn't give the experts, you didn't offer the experts to talk about it. First, I don't understand why you insisted on changing what was agreed in 2010. I don't understand why you then insisted on July 15th, and now why you insist on 1.1.2014. It's unclear. No one knows the answer to that question. It is said not to save soldiers Ryan, the famous film, but to save Prime Minister Milanovic, his reputation. However, his reputation is difficult to save. It's an impossible mission. I'm interested in an answer. Whether what you are proposing today is agreed with the European Commission or once we adopt it again, we will have a problem, again threats to sanctions only that there will be no threat then, but sanctions will surely be imposed against the Republic of Croatia. Is that what you're proposing, and do you guarantee your word that it is?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49630	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter of the group of representatives 1/3 of the Croatian Parliament, the opening statement is the honourable representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49631	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It has been a pleasure for me to present to you in a united debate the other of the three laws concerning the same matter of the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the EU Member States. We heard a brief statement from the government that she is thinking about solving the accumulated problems that she has caused herself in relations with the EU, and then I will take a little more time than it is for the distinguished minister to explain how and why the proposal that the group of MPs proposed to the president of the Croatian Parliament came about. In fact, at a time when the government tried unsustainably to explain to our public what it was doing about negotiations with the European Commission, and when we didn't know how it was going to get out of the crisis itself that caused by its irresponsible policy, the group of MPs proposed the law for which it had been held, and it still did, that it was possible to save the face of the Republic of Croatia and at least reduce the damage because the damage to its reputation and credibility had already arisen. I hope that this really does not need to be complicated because, regardless of what we are living in parallel time, I believe that colleagues from the position are also referred to the difficult criticisms that government policy has experienced in relations with the European Commission so far. That's why we suggested that the law you forcefully passed and that we fought not to bring about for the same reasons that we're saying today to at least mitigate the damage in a way that we put out of force. And that is why our proposal is to put the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU member states out of force. This would put the government in the position it had in 2010 when the same constitution was in place that you are often talking about today and the law and provisions of the European acquis that were in favour of Croatia having met all the conditions for joining the EU. This is what the European Commission's vice-president said, in that shrubbery, the amount of information we could get was also the meaning of what the Vice-President of the European Commission said that, if we understand correctly, we have to go back to what was negotiated before EU accession. And what was negotiated was the content of the 2010 Law on Judicial Cooperation. All after that was the unnecessary exhibition of the Government, which proved itself in its full crisis that happened to us in relations with the European Commission and the threat of sanctions that I still said would not be completely bypassed. In fact, we have been informed that the commission has asked for the Member States to be shown, but we have not heard whether, after this last agreement, the government has given up the commission. And now something that might be more involved in novels, this unbearable ease of existence that the Government, after all the crisis and the ever deeper crisis it has caused, comes before the Croatian Parliament, the minister in his opening speech of a minute or two says we have all agreed, there are no problems and everything will be the same. We do not know the content of your conversations with the European Commission. We do not know if you have met all the conditions in these negotiations, but regardless of which we have asked questions, the public has asked you questions we have not received any quality answers. I would remind you, for example, that the adoption of a law which has proved a major problem in relations with the European Commission was the first argument that its application is delayed until July 2014 because it can be assumed that our courts will be covered by European arrest warrants that will require the extradition of persons in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Then you gave up that argument and you said you were still negotiating with the European Commission on the moderations of what provisions this law should contain. After that, you said that this law was passed because it protects the Homeland War and all those who took part in it. After that, you began to say that you advocate the equality of all EU member states to which EU law should be applied in the same way and then after all these vain arguments and the unworthy arguments you had started talking about changes to the Constitution because they are a prerequisite for this law to be applied. After all, we heard that you were faced with the wrong translation I suppose from English, so there was a problem with the EU. And we, unlike the public and the commentators you could read, we didn't laugh at all these arguments. And they deserve one laugh because all that you did with that law is that you were unable to comply with Croatian law with EU law in the way we were asked. And not only were you unable to reconcile it, what was harmonised you changed. You've changed the international commitments of the Republic of Croatia. You changed what Croatia signed to stick to the day it became an EU member. You did all of this three days before you joined the EU to amend the Law on Judicial Cooperation. And now something that seems extremely important to us for this law. The law that had 82 articles and had 30 pages of text had a date of entry into force three days after the law was passed, it was this vacacio legion that your president likes to often quote or express Latin sentiments. He's usually eight days old. When you passed a law of 82 articles vacacio legis was three days, today you came with a new proposal with a law that has one article, and vacacio legis is three months. No one understands normal. Given the fact that the deadline for entry into force of the law is set in order for the public to get to know the content of the law, which takes three months to get to know one article of the law? Your Prime Minister liked to say that he has eight weeks of time for people to understand eight words in the amendments to the Constitution, does he really think that the Croatian public takes three months to understand one article of the law? You never offered answers to those questions. And that is why it is our suggestion that instead of waiting three months for one article of the law to come into force, you will accept our proposal so that it enters into force within eight days. It is if you want civilizational fluids to get to know the public with the content of the law, to leave the time needed to get to know the provisions of that law and then to follow that law. And what you do and this proposal is unfortunately what is contrary to the meaning and purpose of this law. Your law is still called today on the judicial cooperation of the Member States. And then don't impose an executive power as a power separate from the judicial authority and the policy exercised by that executive power to command it to the judicial authority and to condition this law that the judicial authority should act when it is already European law of the community to which we have approached a certain kind and manner of judicial cooperation. You are not invited as a government at all to determine policy and determine each individual holder of a judicial duty to listen to you cooperate with colleagues in the judicial bodies of other Member States. It's his personal right, it's his professional duty to work without your instructions. He doesn't need your instructions. And if you read a framework decision on a European arrest warrant, it also writes to you there. It is a civilizational achievement of judicial co-operation through a European arrest warrant and it stands in your framework decision. It says there that you must allow the judiciary to be independent and act independently of your wishes in any particular case. See, that's why we suggested you put this law out of force. We were of course aware that this law was technically and possibly better written, but first we didn't want to write the law instead of the government. We wanted to open the space for you that the law that I say so in a colloquial way is no good, to put it out of force and then to write a law that will stand for all these technical instructions which are the contents of this proposal, but without what all the Croatian public has seen as intention, as a fig tree in their pocket and as something that you want to play an international commitment. Unfortunately, on all working bodies we have passed given your majority the same, our law has not received the required number of votes, the required number of votes received this proposal presented by Minister Miljanic. However, we believe that this proposal too suffers from one deficiency, but since it will be an opportunity to speak later, I will remain only to defend our proposal. I'm going to repeat what I think is extremely important. The proposal to put aside the existing law adopted in 2013 is to help the Government to regulate what is really necessary by technical law, to avoid norms that not only question good intentions but are contrary to the idea of judicial cooperation between EU countries. And your decision to come, so I'm not going to say conjoined but almost very proud of the Parliament saying how you arranged everything is just ridiculous. In the 6th month of this year, we told you that by the law you proposed you would cause problems, neither we could see what dimensions. Now you come after the law is in force for three months and you elegantly move the deadlines and apply this law without any reasonable reason why it takes you again three months for the law to come into force. Such a policy is unfortunately a short day. And regardless of what you may have agreed in your negotiations with the European Commission, which you did not in any way inform the Croatian public about, and here you did not think it necessary to say what the conditions and preconditions were for any law to be passed, you came with this law with a delay in the application of three months. We are wondering if this is the reason just because you do not want to admit that you had to give in under the justified criticisms of the European Commission because of course you did not want to listen to your opposition, that by definition does not occur to you. Maybe if you'd listened to what we said in the sixth month, not perhaps, surely, we wouldn't have been in this situation at all. No one would threaten us with sanctions, it wouldn't be necessary to come in early October or at the end of September to change the law we told you wasn't good. And now we're telling you again that the delay in its application of three months and what you're placing in public because the amendments to the Constitution will not pass. What we told you then, we repeat to you today, HDZ will not support the amendments of the Constitution in particular no, I will say that a la wild change to the Constitution where you liked to change a single article in order to regain some special ideas that you have by adopting amendments to the Law on judicial cooperation. And if you hadn't been able to say anything about him, it's clear to all of us because it was time to present this law very briefly. And maybe it would be good for the Minister and for us and for the public to come and say here, we've made a mistake, we've changed the law, you don't have to take credit for it, we've made a mistake, let's try to correct what can be fixed. If you do not read domestic or foreign presses that tell you about the shame we have experienced precisely because of this law, we read. And many who read are appalled by the idea of solving the problem this way. And many of them ask, and now why do you need an additional three-month term? Turns out, forgive the European Union that the Croats are illiterate, it takes us three months to figure out what you wrote in an article of the law. And the thing is, like we said at 6 months when you proposed the law probably in other motives. These other motives have already been presented to you by the public several times. It's up to us to warn you that this is not a good idea for you. It is up to us to warn that we have a solution from this situation and for this reason we have proposed a law on how to put aside the power of this law on amendments and additions. This gives the government a chance to redecorate all that needs to be regulated in relation to judicial cooperation with the Member States. The government thus also gets the opportunity to move away from politically dictated to the judiciary that it will act in the individual demands of the member states of the European Union. And all the principles of judicial cooperation are that this is a step forward, progress in relation to the situation so far, that judicial co-operation and a European arrest warrant are the cornerstone of a more high-quality work of the judicial authorities, and no one ever speaks of the executive authority, let alone politics having to dance or command these relations. And that is why you, Mr. Minister, do not believe it, although you do not trust the central body operating in the affairs and European arrest warrant, but only in the context of cooperation, technical assistance from the authorities of your country and Member States to carry out all that is the basis of this judicial cooperation. In this way as you've set yourself up, you've sent me fear a safe message to all the judges who will be in a position tomorrow to decide on a European arrest warrant for the political will of the ruling majority to ring somewhere over their heads, to pay very much attention to what they're doing and not to do perhaps on their own conscience, because political will often times and seen from some of your moves is quite different. This is not the way you should have done your job, and come here, I would say unscheduledly to propose a law that has caused great problems in the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia and, within a minute, explain how everything is good and how you almost won the negotiations with the European Commission, I'm sorry, it's still funny. We're aware, we've followed everything you've done, if you'd listened to this in June, it wouldn't have happened. When you did not want to listen in June, we suggest that this law as we have suggested you come into a position so that you can admit that Croatia adheres to all its commitments and these are some basic legal principles that should be followed and then technically regulate the law as necessary in order for us to fulfil our international commitments. For this reason, I call upon you, regardless of what you probably have to do with certain projects, but I call on you colleagues because we will share responsibility all together for those laws that we adopt, we are ashamed of all of you for the law of the 6th month of this year, I call on you to consider this is not a question of winning or defeating any political option in Parliament, this is a matter of maturity, I would say honesty and in some way responsible exercise of our duties in Parliament, so I call on you to consider adopting a law that gives the Government an opportunity to correct what can be corrected. And that when it comes to that moment, I'm sure you'll support the proposal of a group of MPs and vote for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49632	Thank you very much. We're on our way to replication. You have 12 replicas of your colleague. Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49633	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's someone listening to a colleague of the Mlakars and if he didn't know what it was about, you might think a colleague is talking so nicely, he's probably right. However, the truth is quite different, just by adopting such a law as you are proposing, we would be in serious trouble with the European Commission because, of course, it would only then become out of line with the European Union. Through all these discussions with the European Commission, only one question has been raised and the possible discrepancies of one paragraph, one article of the law which had 82 articles. You are now proposing to repeal this whole law, which, for example, introduces a Framework Decision 2009/829, Directive 2012/13 or Council Decision 2009/426, e.g. And when you proposed this law, you could at least study the provisions of European law that were incorporated into the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Cooperation of June this year. But no, you're exclusively for populist reasons using this euphoria unnecessarily created around this law you decided to come here today and propose a law proposing to abolish the law for which not even the number of people's newspapers in which it was published, you didn't remember to state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49634	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49635	Thank you very much. If someone listened to you say the same argument, you'd think the same thing if you were right, and I'll tell you what you're not in. If it were all the way you say it, then you wouldn't have made a mistake at 6 months when you passed the amendments and passed the laws because you knew what was best, which is correct, which is legal, which is true. In fact, you wrote, the ruling majority did not personally, and then in the light of the law that it is a full harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union as you have now written it. Copy-paste in both cases. And we, and that's what I said, maybe you didn't follow well, we gave the government a chance not to write an entire 78 article law instead where we'll sort out all the technical questions. We gave her a chance to get back to the beginning, in 2010 when she had the position to negotiate and get the European Commission's green light for what was negotiated, which is the content of the 2010 law within the Croatian Constitution which is still in force today and which was therefore not needed to change or be objected to, was the position in which the Government should return to this proposal, and then make some changes and complement it technically to comply with all the individual decisions and directives for which you plead. We didn't want to take over the government's work here to write the law for them, although it seems it would be better if the government did as little work as possible to take over the parliamentary deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49636	And now a series of replicas from your club. Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49637	Dear Madam Vice President. Your Honor, I agree absolutely with you that the only real solution is to put off the force such a radically amended law and try to reduce the damage the government has done to Croatia. But unlike you, I have no illusions that this will be done, I have no illusions because I have very good elements for it. For example, the Committee on Legislatives, the parent committee has easily rejected your proposal, i.e. a proposal from the HDZ Club, without even feeling the need to send a representative here to explain it, even the chairman of the Legislative Committee is not here. The minister spent a minute or two on an explanation precisely because it is quite clear that regardless of all the stories of maturity, accountability, regularity etc. or failures, irresponsibility and immaturity, such an amended law as the Government has proposed will accept the ruling majority. So it doesn't matter what we're told here, just as it was completely no matter what we said at the 6th month, and I'm afraid the result will be quite similar. Then Croatia was at risk of being exposed to sanctions. I'm afraid this way will find itself in a very similar position, perhaps slightly different but still in a position to be exposed to sanctions. As for pride, Croatia's self-awareness over the EU and all the big words that have been referred to us as an explanation of why it did not seem, the best self-awareness and the best responsibility and the best pride Croatia and the Croatian government would show that they respect what was negotiated, signed and that Croatia promised to implement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49638	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49639	Dear Vice President Reiner, you said the working bodies missed and this content of the law did not look too much at proposals that would be slightly different. This proposal, which was obtained by a group of MPs, is slightly different from what the government proposes, but in its essence, it brings back hope that if it were accepted that the government would be in a much better position than it is today and has been so far and with the proposal of these amendments. What the Croatian public needs to know, that in all these working bodies, our position is the majority and that by the power of most of us, the decisions that are here are costing us more and more. They never respected the arguments of not only the opposition parties, often the working bodies of the Assembly acted in a way that prevented the work or presentation of independent people, experts, who called for the work of these working bodies, so that some of them had been rescheduled from the session because even though they were called for their expertise, they were not respected, they were not even given enough time to deliver their opinions. So this is just a continuation of this same policy. I am afraid to believe that everything is fine, but I hope that these three months can pass too, and that the European Commission, in some way, with these gaps that we have already experienced, is missing a law like this. I just don't know what it'll look like when this law is interpreted by EU member states that were our friends until yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49640	Thank you. Davor Bozinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49641	Thank you very much. Comrade Mlakar, you said the government didn't want to admit a mistake and you're right there, and we saw that today when we were said to have settled in two points. We're not the two-pointers. We're the ones who got you down. The government is reduced to change because it violated the acquis. If it wasn't for that, why would we be here today discussing changing this law? It is precisely to avoid damages, to avoid the sanctions that have been threatened and which have not yet been withdrawn by your colleague, Mlakar, because you have also said that we do not know whether the European Commission has given up the measures set out in Article 39. The Vice-President of the Commission has made it very clear that he will closely follow this procedure and once the law is passed decide what to do next. Also, 1.1.2014 is not clear to anyone. Neither did the minister who refused to talk about it at the press in Brussels, and it should also be said that he said several times directly that it had nothing to do with changes to the Constitution. Therefore, the minister has already said publicly that the amendments to the constitution with this law have nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49642	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49643	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bozinović, you were talking about what we from the media could say like that, I would say, almost filtered as information. We never had full information about what the government was doing. We didn't want to, and that's what I said. You don't have to. None of us rejoice over the fact that the Croatian government has experienced a debacle in negotiations with anyone. And what happened with the European Commission has brought Croatia back, and it is thick back from its credibility, honesty and all that we have taken over as a responsible state. And on the other hand, the way the Croatian government came out, if it came out of this problem, is just reducing the damage that has already been done. I will repeat what we have said several times is not a problem either in opening funds, financing projects, the problem is, the damage that has already been done, and the damage that has been caused is the damage to the reputation of the state, the credibility of its, accepting and taking over and fulfilling its commitments. That's the damage it's caused. And I fear this law and the conduct of this government, and that damage will be greater and greater.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49644	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49645	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Mlakar, you've been talking about how to admit a mistake and because it's done, no one's head will fall off their shoulders, nor will the world fall apart because of that mistake. It should be made clear that the Croatian public and all MPs continue to be deceived. At the press conference, Mr Minister made it clear that Croatia would urgently take the necessary steps to comply quickly and unconditionally with the law on judicial cooperation with criminal matters in order to fully comply with the framework decisions on the European arrest warrant for all acts irrespective of the date on which they were committed, the removal of the time limit which prevented its application for the crimes committed before 7 August 2002. He said Mr. Miljanic at a press conference after meeting with Mrs. Reding. One more thing that is also important, which is that the arrest warrant is a constitutional category with us and in the Constitution is clearly spoken, except when a decision on extradition or surrender must be made in accordance with the international contract or acquis of the EU. I don't know why they're protecting those 23 Yugoslav UDBA agents who were committing crimes. I don't know why they want to protect Perkovic unless they're related.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49646	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49647	Dear counterpart Djakic, the government has not been clear since the first day, all of this is going in the best direction. They are very correct and cleverly negotiating protecting the reputation of the Republic of Croatia. That's what we've been told many times. And even the Prime Minister told us that he is the one who will protect the reputation of the Republic of Croatia. This score is really his honor and pride. What you mentioned to everyone was clear 10 or 5 days after the law that we are now amending, so the one in June 2013 which is at stake. The only thing that wasn't clear to the government was that the government said that it had nothing to do with individuals. And now that the European and Croatian public have told you that you are doing the wrong thing, that you are doing the wrong thing, that you are doing it in a way that you have fulfilled your international rights, you are serving us again one law that has somewhat obeyed what you have agreed. But as far as the media has been saying, you, among other things, have been given a deadline in which you have to amend that law by 1.01.2014 at the latest. So I wonder why you chose that day, why didn't you choose November 20th? I was saying, maybe 29 would be a better solution, I was talking about pulling out a 3 month legion for one article of the law is pointless, that it's beyond all democratic standards. Well, since you've already been defeated in negotiations with the European Commission and you've given up your stubborn views, at least listen to us and bring the law right away.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49648	Thank you very much. You've replicated your colleague, Djakic, not the government. Ante Kulusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49649	A fellow young man who says after all this except that I agree with... Just laugh because the tragedy today is that the Croatian people are the most happy smiles of the Minister of Justice, I don't know why. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] There is unfortunately no euphoria here but there is only one thing, that this incompetent government has changed the law for three days regardless of what was signed with the EU. Today the people are wondering what's going on in the country, how are the citizens having fun, how can individuals, through this government, handle their debts to the state through pre-fashion settlements? We've been talking for a month about Cyrillic, three months about Lex Perkovic, and every day the economy is sinking. All is free of what has been said in the sixth month that this law is not passed, that it will have to be changed, but both the Prime Minister and the minister have all convinced that they are right. Today when they're wrong, they won't admit they made a mistake. They simply say everything is agreed, there are no problems, and that is amen for both the foreign minister and the minister of justice and the Prime Minister. It's human, I'm going to ask for my own name, and on behalf of the citizens with whom I contact every day about this, it's human beings to admit it's a mistake, to tell people we're wrong, we're doing it. All those who make mistakes, however, this government will do anything but admit a mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49650	Thank you very much. Replication response, Davor's Mlakar. You won't? Thank you. Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49651	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you said the threats to sanctions weren't bypassed if I followed your exposure well. We have received the truth of credibility to correct both intent and lie and to the European Commission we say that we have made a mistake and that we will return to the negotiated. Do you think a colleague of the Mlakar might even have the Germans in this case not to see through this intention and the intention of this government? For them, this must be an eclectic violation of the agreed but also an insult to their judiciary. Why we're actually trying to cheat on the fatters to tell them that we're a con artist, that we're a matchmaking state, and I'm sure it offends the vast majority of citizens, what you're talking about. Although in time we warn of this institutional terror you have brought or sanctions will surely be brought to us and relations with the EU will worsen, especially with some of their members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49652	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49653	Dear colleague Babic, who thinks German public, can be found out from those few articles that I liked in my hands so I can see what the comments were like. If she did not pay particular attention to this problem of handing out the refugees who were prosecuted before their court, if she believed in judicial cooperation with Croatia, if she believed in the fair intentions of the Government, who, after a negative result with the first law, went into repair, and I am convinced that at least the professional public in Germany would now read these amendments and supplement very well and should not be a legal expert or very high-quote in scientific circles to realize that the delay of three months of application of this law is completely pointless unless it has some unknown reason for us to delay the application of this law. And I'm afraid, since we never got an answer why three months to get to know a law that has one article, I'm afraid there are other reasons why the government thinks that law shouldn't take effect within eight days. Everyone will understand that, understands that and the Croatian public, it has long translated the law into concrete persons. I avoid talking about their names because I think we need to have that in mind again and the suspicion of innocence until it is proven otherwise, but we have done everything we have done, we have done everything wrong through the Croatian government to make it impossible for the truth to be found out. And that's what will follow us I believe for a long, long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49654	Thank you. Replica, Vice President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49655	Speaking on behalf of HDZ promoter, counterpart Mlakar says the government has violated Croatia's reputation and has disgraced the country. And who's saying that? A representative of the party being tried here for thieving, for stealing, for stealing her own beloved Croatian people. Defending the country outside, wanting it to be equal with other EU members, it is a disgrace for you, and stealing your own people and your own country must be an honor to you. A very interesting understanding of the concepts of honor, thieving, honesty and defense of the country's reputation. You say that Croatia is threatened by sanctions, is not threatened by sanctions, although you have lobbyed for those sanctions, although you have been wronged, even though you were looking forward to those sanctions. You do not threaten sanctions, you know why, because the minister has agreed and the government proposes the law as agreed with the European Commission. But that doesn't suit you. You'd like the country to fall under sanctions, you're deluded into it, and that's why the Prime Minister rightly tells you at home you're being banditly, and you're acting subjective outside, I'd say almost treasonous. You're made of too flexible material. This is a matter of honor, this is a matter of country dignity, and the government has rightly defended the country's reputation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49656	The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49657	Thank you for your intervention, Mr. Stazic. I hope, at least that's how I understood that when you talk, you think about everything, not just me, although I'm not sure. But I'm going to tell you to correct you because you've got it all wrong again, you who often translate, and that's what happens, and the wrong words of a foreign origin, I'm not deluded, and no one has been looking forward to sanctions, and what we've done today is a way to help you not to experience these sanctions. But more important than what you wanted to say, and it has nothing to do with this subject, I was talking about the government that ended negotiations with the EU, I was talking about the government that got the European Community's affection, the EU being able to enter a circle of civilized peoples that had been prevented for you, your legacy and the former ideology and the party you defended for 50 years. We have managed to gain the honor and reputation of becoming one of the 28 EU members despite your efforts not to. And what you're saying is that it's agreed, it's just a small punishment for what we've already experienced about this government I've been talking about, and not for the government that's being tried for the actions we're going to see whether or not the parties are going to prove themselves. Just count on the hand of justice being slow or available. Maybe we'll talk about other things in a different time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49658	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49659	In your presentation, you said it was a policy to present this government, a short breath. But the damage is long-term, the damage done has been done in the long term. We heard earlier that this is a matter of honor and dignity for the country, so this battle of prime ministers, but this is a pointless battle. We didn't get answers, I'm curious, I'm asking a question, and I asked the prime minister when he was in Parliament, tell me why? There's no explanation why we got into that battle. You said that the unknown reason why the law enters immediately is not immediately effective but only 1.1. It is precisely an unknown reason that the law should enter into force 1.1., and in the meantime constitutional changes that make it impossible for antiquity to take effect. During that time, until the law enters into force, a court case is initiated in Croatia against people who should not be protected and we are not obliged to hand over the country seeking these people. So, tell me with this judiciary, if we don't believe in it, the prime minister has told us to quit the country from citizenship, I don't believe in this judiciary because for 10 years I've been running a slow-moving working dispute, therefore, if we were to hear the Minister's opening statement on what he has agreed with the European Commission exactly, and if he gave the word that what we agreed on here on the table would make sense. So we don't know what the rate of the dispute is, we don't know why 1.1. to have someone explain to us why. It is certainly not a reason for the Croats to understand the amendment to the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49660	Thank you very much. The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49661	Dear colleague Vuksic, the matter is very simple but the government cannot say it. All the time we've been talking about the background of all these changes, and the thing has been clear to everyone almost since the first moment. The government is protecting the fatters, murderers and those involved, and it would be said even in the terror of the state against its own citizens. These were even acts of state terror, and the government decided that such people would not hand over the hands of justice regardless of what kind of society they were in, even if it was the society of civilised peoples in the EU. And that's the essence of the story, this is all tricks, whether we want the law right now or in three months. In three months before that, we'll change the Constitution. Now the Constitution proposes to you this man fighting for the reputation of our country, proposing to change it with his messages from his cabinet. Three years ago, he rebelled because he sought a broad political debate on changes to the Constitution. He thought a consensus of political parties was needed, an agreement. He changed everything according to his own needs. All of this would be even understandable if there was no harm done by them, caused by their work in this problem. We will not make up for that damage even by amending the law in a year, because what will happen to us will be observed by people from the civilized world, we will feel everyone on our own skin, especially those who will represent the interests of the Republic of Croatia abroad. We have become an unworthy state that does not adhere to its obligations and is able to play all that has been taken over by international contracts. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49662	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I would ask you not to say here that someone is protecting the criminals of the refugees etc., the Croatian state, the Croatian state has been able to process for 23 years if they exist. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49663	Madam Vice President, if you did not find it appropriate to warn Vice President Stazic about the content and manner of his speech and there was reason to intervene from the record table, then don't salt our brains either.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49664	We're going to the next replica of Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49665	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I'm going to replicate to you, my colleague, since I haven't been able to replicate the minister since he escaped two minutes later, I expected that at least here in the Assembly he'll argue with the MPs on a case-by-case basis. He has so far chosen tactics in his communication with the public to make a superficial statement and escape. And it's clear to me on the human side because he's aware that this episode in his life is going to leave quite a mark on his professional career, but this is the Croatian Parliament, we're talking here, we're talking about arguments here. And that's why you made a good point, and I want to point out that because these are questions that we didn't get an answer from the minister and we had to get them, it's too important, it's too difficult a situation that's been caused by changing this law so easily in a two-minute explanation that we accept how the minister does it and just went over it like nothing happened. So we haven't received answers to the following questions, why the 2010 law was changed, we still don't know what the real reason is. Next, we don't know why we're going to delay the application of the law to 1. 1. 2014 We don't know why article 20 was changed where the university statute became obligatory. Is this perhaps a question mentioned by fellow Stazic where the government shows muscles, protects the honour and reputation of the Republic of Croatia how? So it protects criminals. It's not the government fighting for the Peljek Bridge, it's not fighting for the funds, it's fighting for criminals for those that other courts are looking for because they've committed crimes on their territory. And last question briefly, here's another 10 seconds. Where is the European arrest warrant, the minister does not answer, says he has no idea or cares? Probably because he doesn't know That Article 5(5) [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]] He says the Department of Justice [[Intruder: Please, colleague, time is up.]] a central body to be discussed and to know where the European arrest warrant is located. [[/Intruder: Time's up. Sit down, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49666	You've been calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure before, and now you're doing the same thing, you're doing the same thing. Nor did the minister escape, the minister sits here and listens to you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49667	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Although you have already said something about this, Honorable colleague Jandrokovic has seriously injured Article 238 of the Rules of Procedure because by speaking about the protection of criminals here, he has greatly demeaned and insulted not only the president, not only all of us MPs, but the entire Croatian government. An esteemed colleague how you can talk about anyone protecting criminals when it is very clear that we are all together taking all the measures possible so that even those for whom the statute of limitations occurred if they are not subject to a European arrest warrant are sanctioned and that is why the amendments to the Constitution are proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49668	... He said, he said. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, let's calm down a little tension. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49669	Therefore, Madam Vice President, Article 238 was injured because you did not warn a representative who, by his conduct, deviated from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly as a colleague of the coat of arms did. So he calls me to say that I'm saying that someone is protecting criminals and the president of the government, the president of the SDP a few days ago Urbi et Orbi orders who is not to change the Constitution that protects the criminal act almost. So, I didn't hear you fellow coat of arms protesting at the time and that you also told Urbi et Orbi how you could charge dear Zorans with all those who believe that the Constitution should not be changed before the new Law of Judicial Cooperation comes into force. So you're showing again how different criteria you have. And Madam Vice President if you wanted to show authority today you had Vice President Stazic and you could clearly, loudly warn that his tone, yes His content and manner are not suitable for this High House. [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49670	Time's up. It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure because fellow Peja Grbin called on an article he thought was hurt and actually referred to what you were saying and you, if you're unhappy with my answer, know what you have to do. We'll give it before I give my colleague to Pupov. ... You haven't answered. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49671	Dear Madam Vice-Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Party wants a 10-minute break because the debate in the Croatian Parliament is on the move so that there are no longer any assumptions for serious participation and I want to consult my members on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49672	I'm setting a break to 12.37. MEETING IN 12.25 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.34 HOURS]] ... to state your club's position. [[Home is not saved.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49674	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the SDSS considers that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament guarantees all MPs the equal opportunity to participate in discussions and equal opportunity to discuss the points of the agenda, and with the fact that things have taken place within the past hour by members of the HDZ Club who have monopolized the debate over the agenda of the Law on Judicial Cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union and the abuse of the Replica Institute, a rather broad and in fact incorrect interpretation of the Replica Institute, put these fundamental rights at risk. So the right for clubs and representatives in this House to have equal and equal opportunities both in terms of time and in terms of resources and in terms of content when there is a debate on some agenda point. It may be that the representatives and representatives of the HDZ Club believe that they should have privileged status in this Assembly as they have tried for years to interpret that for certain historical reasons they should have this status and that others should be more or less in a secondary position. It may be, but of course it is not in accordance with either the Constitution or the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, we think that this debate can only be continued assuming that these fundamental values on the one hand of the Constitution, and on the other hand the Rules of Procedure are secured in the Assembly. If this debate cannot continue in such a way, then we will reach for similar means and then we will do what we have to do to ensure the equal status of each club and each representative in the Assembly when it comes to the debate and to ensure that the use of business opportunities in this House is used in accordance with the meaning and content of the Rules of Procedure, rather than in accordance with the means of manipulation as is happening now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49675	Thank you very much. We have two more replicas. Marin Jurevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49676	Thank you. I'm sorry that there are no colleagues of the Mlakars because I'd largely agree with what Milorad said, but I really appreciate the opposition circles of some people as very good politicians, but I think they're very bad actors and that this turns into a very badly played play by an seemingly amateur theatre group who claims to send strong political messages, so I wanted to tell my colleague Mlakar that it surprised me that he accepted those roles in this way. I am also stuck with the ear of his syntagma that we have disgraced Croatia because I feel like a member of those who are in power and yes, we are in power and I think that these are the wrong messages, that it is really trying in Croatia to produce climates filled with difficult ideological categories. It is about the protection of him who protects him, they deliver him, they do not marry him. And the truth is, vote for the amendments to the Constitution and everyone can be extradited. If you don't vote for it, and you won't vote as you say, then I don't think there's any valid reason not to tell you to stop the extradition of those who committed crimes if they committed them. ... You can talk and drink whatever you want, but that's the final truth, if that's what happens. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And the truth is that the Croatian people are the most disgraced when they robbed him, the moment his own government robbed him, if it robbed him and if it was determined in court. At the moment your party is in the Croatian court, your former president is in the Croatian court, he was the Prime Minister. If it is found to have been robbed, it is the greatest shame and humiliation of every citizen of this country. So be careful when you talk...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49677	Thank you. Time's up, buddy. Tomislav Klaric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49678	Can the story end up in a barracks?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49679	Thank you. You gave up, thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter of the Club of Independent Representative Jadranka Kosor and HGS representative, Jadranka Kosor will now explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49680	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. Here's waiting in line that as one of the mandated promoters I can get the opportunity to explain our proposal to amend the law just got tired, but it's still on time and I believe that in the follow-up of this debate this main goal will be how this story ends and how it is finally removed from the agenda. Here are the ladies and gentlemen, on June 13th when the government sent amendments and additions to the law, June 28th, when the law was passed, on July 1st, the whole of July, August, the whole September, and we didn't stop dealing with questions about who was protecting whom, who was protecting the refugees, and who was making her feel safe. We had an additional argument, we split up, we resented each other, we further lost credibility in front of the Croatian public who sees this because often people say well if you have better things to do. Of course, in that sense, we are some credible, some more credible, some not. The Cacophony on amendments to the law, i.e. on the law, or on the main institute under discussion, which is the European arrest warrant, is spoken by all and those who understand something and those who understand nothing. However, it should be repeated once again because this is hopefully the last time we talk about this law and these amendments and that we will turn to the budget and what brings us difficult 2014 after the difficult 2013 which we are witnessing. Therefore, only our club was represented when the amendments to the laws proposed by the Government with this key problem were discussed, which is a restriction since 7 August 2002. Only our club has proposed an amendment, and here's Mr. Minister if you'd accepted that amendment then we wouldn't have spent so much time, nerves and you, of course, nerves and strength and energy on what we still haven't taken off the agenda today. Because only on October 5th do I understand whether the process of measures towards Croatia has been suspended or not. It may either be something later or it may be 1 January 2014 to me personally, but it is still not clear until the end. So, and for that amendment that only our club suggested, so we were the only ones who were really fighting for that restriction to be removed. They voted except for me who was in the assembly and fellow laborers I thanked again, because I think politics is guided by action, and I'm not doing it at all. And only we, on 26 August, ladies and gentlemen, have sent amendments and amendments to the law with this same proposal to remove restrictions since 2002, but with a sign that the law, so amended, would enter into force after its publication in the National Journal. Everyone else and a group of MPs on September 25th and the government on September 26th, so they did it after us. Now we have a proposal to amend and supplement, so just remove this 2002 restriction and enter into force in 2014. In the forests that rule, where man really doesn't know whether it was the only dispute with the European Commission, did Mrs Reding, whom I greatly appreciate, and demanded something else. I'm going to ask Mr. Minister, of course, except now by calling to the plenary session, I'm going to do it in writing and I think as a representative, I have the right to get it. So, the overall correspondence that you have led as Minister and Ministry with the European Commission, with Mrs Reding but of course also the correspondence that if there is a sign of writing, and as far as I know, also led by Prime Minister Mr Milanovic with Commission President Barroso. So I'm going to make this request so that I can finally read everything and finally understand what was really a challenge from the beginning. I have carefully read Mr Stier's statement, a representative in the European Parliament, and therefore my one of the closest associates in these European affairs during negotiations to join the EU which, of course, worked both a big and important job and in the previous or conquest of the previous goal, which is to join NATO. And I'm sure he certainly has good information and he understands, and if the paper was well conveyed he said after the meeting of Mr. Reding that he was satisfied and that the problem is if such a proposal is proposed to amend and supplement the law is removed. So I trust him, but we'll wait for more ladies and gentlemen until the law is passed, until it's published in the National Journal whether there will be a reaction from the European Commission. Let's hope not. And that's one of my questions to the Minister today. I also sent him to the board meeting this morning. So, is the subject of the talks I'm not going to tell the negotiations, because it wasn't the negotiations. We negotiated and ended in 2010 and finally as regards Chapter 23, here at the very end of the negotiations, so in June 2011. So, was it the only fight? If there was a problem on the agenda or a question of limitations, I believe that the minister will decidate and precisely respond to it today at the plenary session because it is extremely important that we do not continue to suffer, that we do not continue to catch each other by, of course, picturesquely speaking for the political throat. That's too bad. The damage is, in my opinion, the biggest damage is the additional division in Croatia, the additional division in political space, and so we need a minimum consensus. The fact that we have lost consensus on this issue for Europe, for the EU. Something important and fragile that's the only thing that's connected us all these years. And I think that these discussions that we had both in the Parliament and in the public and in the media and everywhere that unfortunately increased the number of Eurosceptics in the Republic of Croatia because one part of the people who was extremely cautious and during the negotiations took care of what we had negotiated and whether in this sense we had issued the interests of Croatia that the number of Eurosceptics who are less and less believed had certainly increased and increased. We in the EU, colleagues and colleagues, have not entered on our knees as some say. We did not betray Croatian interests. We've done a lot of hard and hard work, moved a lot over our backs. This question, I repeat once again, and I hope that this is the last time in the assembly to talk about it, this issue of introducing and installing restrictions from 7 August 2002 never on a political scene, from political parties, political party leaders, to negotiations on amending the Constitution and, of course, through the control of the National Committee in the Croatian Parliament. If it were, if someone had asked the opposition at the time, that is, suggested that we build that restriction in order to come in even with others, of course we would have to talk about it. Finally, this could also have been the condition of the then opposition for amending the Constitution, Article 9, where we have installed these obligations regarding the European arrest warrant. If it were us, we wouldn't be able to change the Constitution until we took that question off the agenda. That is why I find it strange why the government did not check well before the change at this stage, for a few days, or whether it could have been a few days before joining the EU. Trust is very difficult to gain, and trust is easily lost, and the lost is difficult to regain. And that's true. What do we get by the fact that the law will enter into force, or amendments to the law on 1 January 2014? I don't know, I can't figure it out, so I'm still suggesting on behalf of our club that these amendments and additions of the law come into force right now. Why? Because even when the law is passed, and when the law is passed, and if we have the Commission's confirmation that it's all right now, and that the process that's being initiated for measures, or sanctions ultimately, will not stop. So we didn't, and that's a fact, and that's true, we didn't get a valid and reasoned explanation why we're going to be the simplest to skip all legal terms and extract the legions and the similar means why we're still gonna be in the waiting room in the application of that law? Especially so, I repeat once again, that the action-related process has not been stopped. Mr. Minister, you certainly still have time to talk in both the Government and the Prime Minister, and I think it would be a very good initiative that, with everything else, your proposal in the final, so your amendment is that the law enters into force immediately and that it starts to apply immediately. And finally, once again, I believe that you will not refuse the proposal, or the request, or the parliamentary question that I am going to formulate, to deliver as quickly as possible complete documentation to make it public. Because when you answer to me as MPs, then of course it will be shared with all MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49681	Thank you very much. And now we're going to move on to replicas. Dragutin Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49682	Dear colleagues, Kosor, you are right, what is the government and the ruling majority today are proposing almost the same content when it comes to the provision, which differs in the date of application or entry into force. And against that law and for that amendment in this House was only six hands. Not 16, not 26, not 46, not 56, but 6. It would be good if, in future, on such topics as European issues, we continue to fight in the hall, not by fleeing from the halls, as some did then. And you were wondering what the argument, which is the event, the fact, the fact, the fact, is that the government is now proposing that this law enter into force on January 1st next year. Since the persistent answer is no, I conclude that our distinguished Minister Milenic and Mrs Reding played, man, don't be angry and had an agreement that whoever wins three parties that his date enters the law. I just can't understand the second explanation. And secondly, as long as we do not get a clear, unambiguous answer whether the only point of reluctance was Article 132 or Article 20 paragraph 2 of point 7 which was amended in June this year when there was a significant change in the possibility of a court decision, trust cannot simply be given to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49683	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49684	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Yes, only six MPs voted for the amendment I proposed, and then only six MPs, so you and I from your club were against the law. I am very sorry today that we did not ask for a name vote then so that it remains written in the history of the Croatian Parliament who was against amending the law regarding judicial co-operation. Okay, but it's a distant past now, so let's turn to the future. I agree and that's what I pointed out. Today, as representatives, we have to get on these two fundamental issues. I think it's easy questions and it's very easy to answer, so this is definitely the end of the story. If it did, which I deeply hope it won't, that once this law is passed and after the law is promoted to Mrs. Vivian Reding's and to say, that's not what we agreed. That would be primarily for the government, but for the state, too, it would be a real irreparable damage. I hope that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49685	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49686	My dear colleague Kosor, you said you hoped to discuss this the last time we discussed who protects whom, who protects the refugees, who protects them so far who intends to protect them. They also ask the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, 23 years have passed since the independence of the Republic of Croatia, and now suddenly the government that behaves in the Kukuriku coalition for less than two years is now responsible for the protection of the refugees. Well then, for the sake of historical some justice, they certainly protected the refugees Tudjman, Racan, Sanader and your government, so Jadranka Kosor and now Mr Milanovic, who still wants to do something. I don't know you as prime minister probably haven't had time to deal with the comforters, but that topic's been open for 23 years. And it is open precisely so that we can fight some ideological fights all the time and not see what is happening in Croatia, and in Croatia, what happens is that Croatian citizens are digging through containers, that our production is almost destroyed, we wonder if we will have money for pensions at the end of the year. It happens that when we discuss the comforters at the time, Croatian property is sold out. Let's say the phenomenon is that economic referendums fail, and we see ideological referendums succeed. So it's a well-intentioned subject anyway. However, two of the largest parties, which is SDP and HDZ, were the most caught for these topics. One fact is that these days Mr. Cedo Jovanovic said he smelled it, so Mr. Jovanovic said it to Cedo and Serbia on Serbian business when we called ourselves lost in the translation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49687	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49688	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Yes, you mentioned colleague Vuksic that I said I was hoping, so that I always kind of hope. When I talk about politicians and politicians that everyone who deals with this business takes care of their dignity, if nothing else and their credibility. And that's what I always hope for, and then, of course, I'm always denied by practice, but I keep hoping. As for your finding that as prime minister, I did not deal with the comforters, not because I was a prime minister above all in the negotiations, and the severe economic crisis, the fall in GDP nearly 7%, and the two budget rebalances only in July 2009, but the criteria for opening and closing in this chapter that we talk a lot about for the judiciary was a lot of that. Therefore, judicial reform and war crimes trial co-operation with The Hague, trial in Croatia for war crimes, of course the position of minorities, etc. The implementation of the Constitutional Law was all questions I was dealing with along with my colleagues and colleagues. But when you mention the comforters and today there will certainly be a lot of words about it and there will be hard words again. As a person and as a politician that I would love very much, and I think that now is the time, I would very much like to answer the question of who were the people who cooperated, who were the employers, who were the people who had anything to do with Udba, and do these people today, who were co-workers, or have they touched in any way, have any contact with Croatian politics today? That's what I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49689	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49690	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Kosor, are real questions at the end of these two, who are the foster parents and are they related to authority in all these 20 years and with which people and who are the people who are in power and who may have been in their relatives or somewhere? And the second thing I wanted, so this is based on the reply to the replica, but what you said in the speech, so the law was changed on the 28th of June of this year. It's interesting that date, very interesting from history, let's start with the one closer to maybe the Vidovdan Constitution, etc., and there are more events 28.6. You spoke in a reconciliation tone and said that six MPs voted for your amendment, if there were two more from your club there would have been eight. But there weren't any. After all, I wanted to say that what was done in Croatia, the only post-Communist country, or post-socialist country however you like, was no lustration, which was carried out in that former East Germany, the Czech Republic, Serbia, Macedonia, Bulgaria and all others, Poland, etc.. It's never been done with us. Why not? Maybe the answer to the question is exactly what you asked at the end of this answer right now to the replica who was all about the relationship and what would be discovered to hand over this one and that 22, say in Germany and get real statements and who it would all come to. This is what is the problem and the application of the Law of 1 January and before that is insisted on constitutional changes. It's clear, Vuksic said himself here and some others.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49691	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49692	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, I hope you don't transfer me when you say I spoke in a reconciliation tone. So, I think you remember that I'm both a member of the government and a prime minister, and now that I'm a relegator and in previous mandates, I've always said in such a way that I insult no one, and I think it's a matter of style that I don't insult anyone and that I don't humiliate anyone but to say the fact that 28. 6th Law has been amended and a final decision on amendments to the law has been made. It is unusual and, of course, wrong before I entered the European Union, so I also spoke here in the assembly a few hours before we become a member of the European Union we change the terms and conditions that we have agreed on, the conditions that we have committed ourselves to. Not someone third, but us by our own free will. And as for lustration, yes, it might be good to try to come up with some round table and here in the Parliament, something where we would open these questions, not here in the assembly, but in some kind, where we would invite scientists. The fact is, when you look from this distance that our first president decided to do something like that in those moments, we probably wouldn't defend ourselves, we probably wouldn't win. His policy was to gather everyone who thinks Croatian and think of Croatia and thus survive as a free and democratic country and of course win. But since it's obvious that all of this is really pressuring and bothering us, I think the time is coming, it's my opinion that we try to get it out in some way and figure out the facts. And once and for all turn a leaf or open a new book.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49693	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49694	Your Honor, Madam President. Comrade Kosor, first replica. You said that now the number of Eurosceptics will grow, I do not agree, the number of those who love and appreciate the European Union will grow, expecting the European Union to teach us reason, because we obviously do not have the power to clear up our affairs. And now on the side of this replica, I'm a little bit, I'm a little fed up and we're talking more about how negotiations were done, who was responsible for what, etc.... within the framework of our general humiliation who gave the Italian to come hunting fish to the front of the school, you gave it to the Slovenians there that they could accidentally or accidentally get a piece of territory, we all agreed to it, let's be honest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now, I expected from you, half an hour I almost listened to you, I barely understood what you were going to say, I didn't understand. You are unable to say we signed this and this, gentlemen, you have thrown it on your knees, that is, under your feet, and you are causing damage to the Croatian state, damage to the Croatian people, we wanted the state of Croatia, left or right, partisan or this left. As far as I'm concerned, I prefer left Croatia and Partizan Croatia to Yugoslavia that it was my best. And it's not about who you marry, who isn't, whether Tudjman put it together. There's a state out there looking for someone who killed someone in the garage, and now my entire country is rising, the government is defending Germany from clarifying who killed who in his garage. It is not relevant, it is not in any way equivalent to what is happening in the Croatian state. And the fact that they don't understand, that is, their government, or the Prime Minister. What's going on is he's going to lose the election on that. You've been running things for two years, you've been gone for two years. That's the future, that's me telling you, I think you know yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49695	Thank you. Replica response, Jadranka Kosor reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49696	Thank you, Madam Vice President, so nothing will teach us as a sovereign and independent state and 28 members of the European Union. We did not enter the European Union to be taught by someone but to enter the European Union to decide on their own fate at the same table of European countries and peoples. And certainly Brussels is not the second Belgrade. And that's why I'm surprised to you when you think we're going to get constant instructions for life and how we're going to work. By insinuating that someone gave something to the Slovenians, I really won't comment because I want to choose words and I want to remain decent. If you didn't understand me, it's perfectly clear to me because you can't understand me, but you won't teach me how to speak. It's past time, you kicked me out of the party, and you can't keep ordering me what I can and can't do. You can't send me into a corner because I'm a elected representative and here I'm going to be equal to everyone, with my best knowledge and the greatest energy I have to defend my views. They have not changed, I will speak exactly as I have spoken as Prime Minister and as a member of Parliament, as a member of the HDZ and as prime minister. My views on the same questions are always the same as others.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49697	Joseph Salapic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49698	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mrs. Kosor, I am sorry that... our debate on one law that should have been a question of our European future, we have a bit of a return to some of the representatives of colleagues and colleagues after digging through the past which will not bring good things to Croatia or those who are hard to live today, and that is a bit sad. Sad for both Croatian politics and everything. What's most important to me, I've been listening to your debate and I understand very well what you're trying to say. The most important thing at this point is that the compromise has been reached politically, which is that Croatia will not get sanctions and the fact is that it is agreed. And what you and the Government should acknowledge, otherwise we have always supported the quality laws of the Ministry of Justice and Minister Orsat Milenić, which is that this was not a technical problem nor that we were lost in translation but was created a political problem of one intention which was clear to those who spoke and negotiated with the European Commission. Because we didn't change this law what we wanted, or the government didn't change what she wanted, but what she had to do. This is a European Commission decision, and a compromise has been reached because we, as a Member State of the European Union, have other mechanisms, which is a change in the Croatian Constitution, and then a change in the Croatian Constitution that can be achieved by 1 January 2014 can guarantee that this European arrest warrant will prevent a constitutional obstacle, which is that, under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, our citizens are being tried in the Republic of Croatia. So time exists and it's only partly the whole story that the Croatian public needs to know, but I believe and I'm sure that this has become a little bit unsatisfactory and that it's boring for everyone, that every day when you turn on TV, you talk about one law, one problem as if the Croatian state has nothing other than this. I think that we should both make peace and say too much and finally admit that this was a political problem, not technically, and that our government and prime minister at the moment brought Croatia into some unfortunate position where the minister as a lawyer could not explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49699	Thank you. Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49700	Thank you very much. That fellow Salapic, we've talked about it so many times here in the assembly that sometimes I get dizzy when I have to repeat the same facts. Of course, because the European Commission has threatened to launch measures, it has launched them, which means ultimately sanctions. It is even less important in my opinion that money related to Schengen, and more of course it is more important that what we are losing credibility and the fact is that we have a lot of hard work to do with the European Commission. So we are now very quickly entering the shears related to fiscal responsibility, for fiscal measures. It's going to be a battle, it's going to be able to show the muscles, but unfortunately we're going to have a little maneuvering space because the situation is so difficult. Therefore, these are facts, but they are already so well known to the Croatian public that they do not need to be repeated over and over again. The fact is that the question remains why the law that we had to amend and remove this time limit does not come into force immediately. It is a question to which no one has an answer, which, of course, the government has not offered any relevant answer and I believe that we will get it by the end of this debate that will take a very, very long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49701	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Independent Representatives and counterparts Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49702	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Yes, it would certainly be better, as Mrs Kosor says, to discuss the difficult Croatian economic reality, the difficult 2013, perhaps even more difficult, almost certainly even more difficult 2014. It would certainly be better, as Mrs Kosor says, to discuss these fiscal changes or fiscal responsibilities, budget sizes, approximations of Croatia's debt in the coming period, the situation in the economy, the gatherings that are being reported, the cheapings it has, the electricity, the gasoline today. But there's this law on judicial cooperation in front of us and what to do to it now. But still thank God this lex perkovic story is what we call a coloquial law, yet it's over. What the next day will be shown by the investigative committee will show, which will show if the trial remains the same to be seen, but let the first sentence immediately correspond to all those who have committed these most severe crimes if they have committed them. However, I would say this, that the plane shows that Croatia has been under unnecessary pressure in this period since the last two or three months or three. When said a few days or weeks ago 1.1. enters into force when the Czech lex Perkovic enters into force, if we do the same thing then simply that turret is down. What bothers me first is this duality of how to express myself, European countries. That's what someone will say and logically, it's not Croatia or Austria or Germany, but I'll also say that it's not fair for gentlemen. But clearly, that's right, we have countries first and we have countries in second order, and apparently by what's allowed Jupiter is not allowed the ox. And now what can I say? I read in the morning recently that against the initiation of the measures was one Austria, that it was Hungary, that it was Slovenia, that it was the Baltic countries. Well, Croatia certainly wouldn't share Europe. It was expected that Mrs. Reding would not even stand for the UK, and God wouldn't stand for France. This morning's paper 28.9.2013. If Mr Barroso and Prime Minister Milanovic agreed on a deadline for Lex Perkovic, then they must have agreed on everything about the Cyrillic. However, I would like to give you a few examples of how this European arrest warrant applies in this Europe and what Mrs Reding's actions are like. Reding in 2011 supported Austria when it didn't arrest, here's a big title, a communist criminal. Austria refused to arrest former HGBs Mikhail Golovat, who was wanted by Lithuania for assaulting a TV tower in Vilnius in January 1991 when more than 600 people were killed and injured. Reding then explained that Austria did not have to carry out the arrest warrant because it only carried out arrest warrants after 2002 and said from Austria's legal point of view it did not have to carry out the arrest warrant. It's legal. It's all clear here. Done. Or another case almost incredible, I don't know which newspaper came out a few days ago. The Germans won't hand over the accused Nazi, the title. They're looking for our fat man Perkovic. Soren Kam, former head of the Soviet Union in Denmark today, lives freely in Bavaria despite evidence charged with the murder of a newspaper editor in 1943. Germany refused to extradite despite a valid European arrest warrant from the Nazi, etc. which Denmark had betrayed after him, where it had been judged before. Or a third case. Germany refused the European arrest warrant also for another Nazi criminal named Faber, who was Dutch, who was a member of the SS during World War II. On 4 May 2012, at 90 years of age, he died in Inglestadt as a free man because German judicial institutions for decades refused his extradition to the Netherlands where he was sentenced to war crimes and to death. For a while there was a third on Simon Vicenthal's list. Here's so much to say about that arrest warrant. And now we see that in that part of the law, this law is not only a matter of the past, but that this law is also a matter of the present. So much for the arrest warrant. What insults me? What happened on the political stage is a replacement of thesis. Yes, the prime minister is protecting the killers from the communist era, and it's interesting that Vice Vukojevic was one of the most invited to judge the period I don't know about these conjugal liquidations of the explicit says that Perkovic was protected by former president and former army minister Mr. Sušak. Did Mr. Sušak not know who Perkovic was? Didn't the late president know who Perkovic was? Didn't high-ranking HDZ officials know who Perkovic was too. I agree with Mr. Dujo Marasovic. He's right about that. The point is who issued the warrant, who's on top. The perpetrators are important. They should answer, too, but I'm also more interested in who issued the warrant myself. Now, you're all or we all knew who Mr. Perkovic was and we were making out in opposition to the '90s as well as you gentlemen at the top of the HDZ. Now, there will be changes to the Constitution, and I guess it will be abolished from time to time, and the suspension of the statute of limitations in the case of this converted crime has brought nothing to our understanding. In this case, except for one farce process in this case, I want to believe that something simple is going to happen. I also spoke to some people who gave testimony to the German judiciary in the Djurekovic case. The truth will ultimately make it clear to the court, but you know what's just as interesting. Croatian judiciary, i.e. State's Attorney's Office in '98. and perhaps earlier at the request of the SIS established by Perkovic under the order of Mr Suška, so the DORH rejects any suspicion of Perkovic's involvement in the Munchen assassination. Someone here will say here, it's the Croatian judiciary. But how is it that no one in the 90s in front of the president, the minister, I don't know the defences, Mr. Perkovic asked for the sanctioning of Perkovic, and many of you, us, were then and MPs, such or such officials. There were some ministers here, and we were all playing catcher. Some were secret service chiefs who simply cooperated with Perkovic. And instead of dealing with innocent Cermac, Marker, Gotovina, you could've been dealing with the comforters here, so we understand each other. There was no other way to solve the case of our innocent generals. I repeat, if we want to judge, it means that the comforters must be abolished forever. If we are to judge their employers, the Constitution must also abolish these statutes. What are the media doing now? It lists 60 victims' names among emigrants or now diaspora. I am only waiting for Pavelic to be placed on that list as Luboric, commander of all concentration camps during the NDH, who was also killed in what is called Spain or Madrid. Don't do it, let's not play with it. Clearly, the murderers of ex-Yugoslavite diplomats, perjury, the Zec family, those who taught the Serbs to swim with Drava in a way that would tie their hands on their backs with a previous wire, etc. Those who ordered the murders of priests in the '50s or '47s should answer. etc. Economically, this did not harm Croatia. I don't even know who's talking about it in one Austria, Italy or the Czech Republic, Hungary, Greece, Great Britain, Denmark, nobody's talking about it. Clearly, Croatia has an obligation, it should stick to European standards and I think that is where we all agree. I want to believe that this country will stick to these European behaviours. Croatia got a lot from Europe but also rich Croatia gave a lot to Europe. So, it gives Croatia to Europe, it will give and we believe that it will get something from it. And finally, Mr Jandrokovic himself recently said that there was a EU concession on that date on 1.01. If that's the case, I won't say the government profited, but I won't say the government lost anything. The fact is, the government didn't give in to the content, but gave in when it comes to this law in time. However, something else is also important now, the political perversion that is going on about Cyrillic and which, together at the press conference with Mrs. Reding, spoke or spoke about by our minister of justice. Will the HDZ, who was so keenly defending Reding now at Mrs. Reding's stand tell the City Council of the city of Vukovar don't touch that letter. Well, the letter is no ideological matrix. I already said one St. John's Day at a time. Peter in the woods 15 km from Pazin in the 12th century in the monastery or I don't know there in the church there was a document written on Cyrillic. Now what? For me, Cyrillic is both Croatian and Serbian letters or vice versa. We Istrians also remember, not us, but we are convinced of that period between the two wars, the one for World War II but also the period of post-war primitives when I don't know the bats or the shrimps simply when the verbs were destroyed, Croatian inscriptions after the war, for example, Italians. Here's my Buzet Bell, and today there's a record that somewhere in 1898, the Italian dudes destroyed just because it was written in Croatian. What's not the time? And Cyrillic? We're talking in a package! And what you're doing in Vukovar belongs to your subversion. And the best thing you can see is Mrs. Kosor's case, which you don't need to comment on, but what you're doing is just pathetic because yesterday you all invested in worthless brooches, and today you're just playing with someone's dignity. ... It's not moral selling, it's just a reminder of what you're doing because morals can't just change you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All in all, it's easy for us to get this Lex Perkovic, easy for the Cyrillic, easy for Mrs Reding, but I agree that back to what I started with should simply survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49703	Thank you very much. I'm setting a break until 3:00, and then we're going to solve two, four, six, seven replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49704	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will continue our work. It's the replicas. First honorary colleague, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49705	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I listened carefully to Mr. Cain's speech, and his consistency in support of everything this government does is evident. He was consistent and in the first vote when we almost ended up under sanctions, he was fine with the law. I guess he's got this one, too. But something else moved me to report for the replica, and that's his statement he made two days before I think 24.9. before the 26th Government capitulated. And he said at the time, so the plane shows that there is a classic mobing not of Europe but of some ladies who, because of the German or European elections, speak so. I wanted to add that, in my opinion, more for the Croatian democracy for the Croatian legal system was done more by Mrs Reding than by this government in this term, and I hope that the other will not have and that this is one bad way of explaining that he thought at the time that he justified the failures that this law has won. That's what I wanted to say because I think it's hard for people to recognize these political acrobatics and Mr. Caine from a time before and today considered him a mere tribunal, a man who's always been on the side of a little man, and now he's ready to support all the laws of this government that have made this country richer and poorer. That's all I wanted to say, and I don't think I'm far from the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49706	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49707	This topic that we are discussing today, Mr. Representative, is purely politics. I understand too much in these benches not to know what simple politics is and how discussions are conducted. But that this topic is pure politics is the most eloquent testimony that this bill of yours was not defended by the president of the HDZ but by Mr. Mlakar. Well, he's supposed to be thundering here, so he should be convincing the public of what you're proposing, not leaving it to Mr. Mlakar. I'm not defending Mr. Representative, I'm defending sound logic. I'm not defending Milanovic or defending the SDP here. You know who I'm defending here today, Mr. Representative? Jadranka Kosor. You gave her brooches, worthless brooches. There was no conflict of interest here. Some shoes were given, put you on lists, kept lists without her wouldn't be in Parliament, all of you here have far more than her. I have a right to say that. I even agree with Prime Minister Sanader, the former prime minister, who said in one sentence literally that he would not have led these processes against him, but also that Mrs Kosor would not have been removed from the wall in Vukovar, a city she probably owed among other things. Therefore, do not underestimate the sound logic of Croatian citizens. And finally, if you're so principled in this particular case, then be when it comes to Cyrillic, and if you have to give up Cyrillic tomorrow and everything you do in Vukovar, it will not be Mrs. Kosor's fault but Mrs. Redding's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49708	Next replica Boro Grubisic. He's gone. Dujomir Marasovic doesn't have one either. And my colleague, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49709	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cain has finished his debate, and we will easily go with "Lex Perkovic". That ease with which to forget things is what actually worries. The meaning of this or the background of which this law is being broken is, in fact, the condemnation of communism and the communist totalitarian regimes which Europe condemned in its resolutions, the Croatian Parliament only accepted this but did not go beyond that. If we had a high school textbook condemnation of these totalitarian regimes, including communists, then we wouldn't have anything to discuss here today. And just because it didn't happen, we can really discuss it, and he wants to cover it up with whatever other reasons, charges, lunches, etc. It should not be recalled that this assembly of parliament at the beginning of its convocation gave up its patronage over Bleiburg precisely in order not to be given up, it taught the meaning of these crimes that took place there. Should we quote all these statements that one crime is justified, and the other is not and how long it has been sitting in these benches here and in the public and not being allowed into textbooks in condemnation. It's the key to the problem, and it's supposed to talk about it, but obviously, the one who has too long memories doesn't seem to be able to survive here too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49710	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49711	I agree with the textbook, but the thesis has been spinning here for three months. It is Prime Minister Milanovic's fault for Mr. Perkovic's status, he is the one who protects the refugees, and not as Mr. Vukojevic, Perkovic's defender, was defended by the late president and the late defence minister. Now I don't know if anyone in this country is going to get up with the parolees on the dignity of the Homeland War. Well, Mr. Perkovic is also a Colonel of the Croatian Army. Mr. Perkovic is a man who is decorated with the highest honors of the former president or what I know from whom not all of them. Gentlemen of the HDZ, you were supposed to handle all this in the '90s. Mr. Perkovic should not have been appointed a minister, excuse me, assistant minister of Mr. Shusk, but you did. You put him in charge of the HIS. The man of the most possible confidence of President Tudjman and Minister Susak. He was on the principle of intelligence at the time of the war. What you did through DORH, DORH, the state's attorney's office, SIS has on several occasions asked if Mr. Perkovic committed any crimes in Munich back in the '80s. The answer was no. And on two occasions. Now, why was it so I don't know, but I know we need an investigative commission for that. And in order to possibly pursue someone, then I guess we should take off the flag. It is clear that Croatia will respect all these international commitments, there cannot be any doubt. Croatia can question everything, its international credibility will not, it did not question it in this law. Now Europe gives the Czech Republic a deadline of 1. 1st.. And why does the Czech Republic respect these principles, their Lex Perkovic and Croatia not? I think both countries must have the same treatment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49712	Next replica Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49713	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. counterpart Cain, your cynicism of a human rights fighter, a man who has always stood up for the defense of human rights and dignity must never be neglected. The man who spoke many times in this Croatian House but I didn't hear him come forward when he was supposed to protect Purda, Maric and 52 indictments that came from Serbia did not speak in such a context as you are defending Perkovic today. Your cynicism is endless. There is no end to what you can insinuate in this Croatian House. To show the Croatian people one thing, to do another and to fight for the third. You have standards and criteria that are different. What violates the integrity of the Croatian state, what was not... In '91, what was trusted was not to be mentioned in the latter sequence when charges were brought by the German prosecution it is clear that by harmonising the Constitution and Article 9. The constitution had to be carried out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has to be done today, not today, but it's due tomorrow, it's already too late. The dignity of both this House and this government and this Croatian state itself and its people fell into the ashes and dust, especially representing people like you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49714	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49715	I think I've always been with a little man. I've always been on their side. I've always been with the weak and the vulnerable. You used to say who was protecting whom. You were talking about some 23 UDBA agents. Of these 23 people, two of them really worked in those services. And who was protecting the saviours, Mr. Djakic? He was protecting the political summit at the time with the president, then this is how we're going to tell the Republic and the defence minister. And why didn't the former president want a lustration? Well, now you know you can't see how many comforters there were in your ranks. Well, Mr. Vukojevic wasn't lying when he mentioned it. Well, some HDZ's, Mr. Djakic, so you probably stood still in front of Perkovic. What are you talking about? Well, they worked closely with Mr. Perkovic. He's working. Of course, life works, existence works. Point. Now, does anyone need to process them too who let this happen in this country and maybe you should also answer the entire SIS service for a lot of what she did and higher than the one who led them. We knew everything, we knew everything, and we knew everything. But we did nothing and now we will launch an investigative commission, change the constitution, and if it is necessary to extradite those who have liquidated Croatian immigrants abroad as well as those who have liquidated the ex-Yugoslavene ambassadors as well as those who have studied in Osijek Serbs bound with wire on their backs to swim with Dravi.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49716	Now we will hear the second in a row of clubs in this debate, it will be the Club of Croatian Labourists and the esteemed colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49717	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Minister, you did a great job and you who proposed such a law in June this year and you colleagues and colleagues who voted in favour of the law. All the world's most prominent media are writing about Croatia these days and they say it's a good promotion if it's written and spoken well and wrongly. And you have succeeded in no more serious global media that has not apostrophe of conflict on one side of the European Commission and on the other side of Croatia in the last two months. One's even [[I'll be right back.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49718	Comrade Djakic, don't make threats from the bench. Yes, yes, arrest fellow Caine. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49719	Even part of them... are the Mediterranean tourist slogan that was once turned into the Balkans as it used to be. And I saw a newspaper that even brought together the HRT decision that next year we are not taking part in the Eurosong with this opposition with the European Commission and it is not a newspaper from Africa but in Europe, in a big city in our friendly countries, and this text was published last week on Monday and it is dedicated to as many as 6 text cards on the subject. Both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public have become or have become hostages of the vanity and spite of the individual, above all our prime minister. The time of power of human resources, media spaces and political struggles that must be and exist in Parliament has been transformed or put into the first plan ideologically. And this topic has been turned today into a conjecture-ideological theme. But I remind you all who do this, when you mention the names of some actors that these people were at the top of the intelligence community after the '90s, and as far as I hear some of them have the status of volunteers of the Homeland War, the fighting sector more than a thousand days. So when you share epithets and qualifications and take care of it. We have no problems in Croatia, nor with the drop in industrial production or the drop in exports, we have no problems with the fall in purchasing power, the absence of investments. The 270 thousand citizens who have 21 billion blocked kunas on the gyro accounts are not our problem, nor are these 61 thousand entrepreneurs who are blocked by as many as 35.5 billion are not the problem. An issue where every day a family gets kicked out of the apartment is not a problem, and when we're going to discuss the elimination of reliefs, let's say for the first housing of a young family, for the first real estate, I don't know. These are not Croatia's problems. Croatia's only problem is the European arrest warrant and amendments to the Constitution. Believe me, citizens enjoy listening to us in these discussions, they're overjoyed because then... all their troubles. And what does the Government propose now that we have a third debate on the same law? The same thing that she refused on June 28th this year, the amendment of colleague Kosor. You rejected the amendment and now the same government is proposing, although the date is controversial since those decisions were applied. But look what it says in the state of the bill. Who is to blame that this law is now in front of the Parliament, it is the Council Framework Decision on a European Arrest Order. Tell me what translation the Croatian side used in 2010 when the law was passed without a time limit, what were we then using the Mongolian translation, Hungarian, Chinese? How come 2010 wasn't a translation problem, so we all knew how to translate Article 32 if I'm not mistaken and which country and under the conditions it gives certain rights and without objecting to anyone. Even more. No matter how far past the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations in which all party presidents were, I don't know if my colleague Cain has replaced his president on that National Committee, and probably so. But he was led by today's second first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, and everything was fine until June 28th of this year when a problem arises, and we are now guilty of translation. And what else do they write? The Republic of Croatia was of the opinion that Article 33. Framework decisions can be applied to Croatia. Mr. Minister, the Republic of Croatia was not such an opinion. It was only you in the government and the ruling majority in parliament. The rest of the parliament was not such that it could, only if under the Republic of Croatia you believe that you and no one else are. But that's not all. I quote: "The government carried out technical consultations with the European Commission and then the European Commission explained that Article 32 could have been used in the Framework Decision itself, but not later.". The European Commission's decision to activate Article 39 of the Treaty of Accession and to initiate the procedure for imposing sanctions on Croatia are technical consultations in the opinion of our Government. Can you understand that? So the European Commission takes a decision, initiates the process of preparing and taking sanctions, activates Article 39 and our ministers and members of the Government go to the European Commission for technical consultations, as if they were going to fix the car. After this indignity in... this is a new indignity, we have not been able to, that Mr. Ministers were not able to be brave enough, politically cunning and admit that at some point you were seduced by the wrong information, had the wrong advisors, made a bad decision which, after the European Commission's warning and decision, not Mrs. Reding but the European Commission, we must correct. And that's the only truth. And why, in force 1.1.2014, everyone asks that, why exactly 1.1. I heard this kind of informal argument yesterday that impressed me, which the minister certainly won't say, so the Czechs are going from 1.1, so we're going too. But gentlemen, our Czech friends have asked us kindly not to help them anymore and not to mention them as an example of comparing Croatia's status and position today and today's Czech Republic. They asked us culturally, please don't help us anymore, we're sick of your help. And what's left of me, then, rather than just ironizing the thing that that date chose to eeny, roast, bake, man, don't get angry or I don't know how different. And now the minister assures us that the deadline has been agreed, that the European Commission has accepted 1.1 as the latest date. We're using that latest date. But I have to insist on the next question. Is it true that in those technical consultations there was also a problem over Article 20(2), paragraph 7, of Article 2(2), paragraph 7 as we also changed the court's right to a decision. In 2010, she wrote in the law a provision that the court could execute or refuse to execute a European arrest warrant by calling for limitation. We're in June it might turn to have to be called to antiquity. Article 4 of the Framework Decision states that such a decision is taken by the authorities of the judiciary, not by the legislative bodies, not by the executive authority, by the authorities of the judiciary. And I only experience this change one way. The Croatian government does not trust the Croatian judiciary, the Croatian judges who will abuse Article 4 of the Framework Decision and their decisions are based not on legal norms and justice, but on something else. Because Article 4 clearly said the bodies of the judiciary, not national legislation, not parliaments, not executive power. But if you don't trust the judges, then you're going to put it into the law, and that's why it's no longer a question. Any law that follows the P.Z.E. mark It also follows the declaration of compliance that you gave Mr. Minister in June for the law that you are harmonising it now. And now you're saying it's consistent. And the message is believe us we cannot trust you after what happened in June and everything that happened later, especially because of the announced constitutional changes and Article 20(2) of the Law. And I ask the question of what if you make your threats and insist that you will change the Constitution now and immediately, and this law from 1.1 next year and after the amendment of the Constitution begins some processes and procedures based on the same suspicion of the initiation of a criminal offence for which the European Arrest Warrant came. Then, according to this point 5, there is an obstacle to fulfilling the European arrest warrant. And that is the only reason why I insist on your response to the dispute and Article 20 of the European Commission, and we will discuss the background of constitutional changes when they are on the agenda. And I'll finish the next one. If our prime minister or any minister had come into a dispute with the European Commission on the issue of government budget deficits, on the subject of conditions, acquiring conditions for the euro area that the longer we don't enter the euro area, by my position, taxation of bank transactions or by God's great Croatian problem of import corruption would have the support of all. All major corruption affairs came from the EU from Hypo, Dimler, Patria, INA. So why don't we fight with them? Which is why we do not go into a fight with the European Commission and members who refuse legal aid at the request of Croatian judicial authorities when we need to clear up major corruption affairs that have been shaking Croatia for several years. When you talk to their parliamentarians, they say that their judiciary is independent, that they cannot interfere, and when they come to Croatia, then they ask in Parliament what you are doing to fight corruption. How many more of these affairs, how many suspicions of suspected sales of Croatian national wealth in corrupt operations, in the extension and conclusion of contracts and exploitation of mineral raw materials, research of the Adriatic submarine without even a public tender. We must endure to show the European Commission, too, that we have changed our mentality, that we no longer bow our heads, and that we do not tremble every time Brussels says something. Are you prepared to ask the European Commission to also ask EU members towards Croatia when it comes to corruption as full members of the EU and to give us documents, data, to provide legal assistance so that those affairs that are under way and those who are facing them are resolved for the benefit of both the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to prove that we are at that European table the same as they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49720	We're moving on to replicas now. First call from a colleague, Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49721	Dear colleague Lesar, you said, I heard him not well remembered that there was a new tourist slogan. I have heard a different tourist slogan, I think it is more accurate Croatia is a country where the sea is clearer than politicians. It's a good slogan. What you're saying is that we're actually a happy country, a country where the biggest problem is a arrest warrant. Imagine a country that only has one problem, that's what we're like a drug dealer. The drug dealer only has one problem with how to get drugs, and we've been dealing with a warrant here for months. 2.5 million people are either in debt slavery or with one foot in debt slavery. We don't solve this problem, we solve arrest warrants. We are dealing with who is responsible for Perkovic, who personally means nothing to me that person and that name. But what you said was fascinating. There's a thousand days of the fighting sector. So, a thousand days. Well, whoever's got thousands of days, so we could've gotten to Moscow, to Washington, we could've won it all. So now it's clear that we should have published a list of defenders to see who was in the fighting sector for thousands of days. Well, that's scary! And now in the end, it turns out that everyone is protecting, in fact, they're only protecting each other. The other thing is that now, at one time, Vice Vukojevic became the left-handed moral authority. The left is called for Vica Vukojevic. Before the mention of Vice Vukojevic, they grabbed the gun. Not Vica Vukojevic. Now Vice Vukojevic is the greatest true lover, so now Vice Vukojevic is quoted in this House. I think this mud-popping thing is interesting, but it's probably not for the viewers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49722	Thank you. Second replica, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49723	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a few things about Mr. Lesar's exposure that moved me to a replica. You told me, among other things, about the promotion if it says bad that it's still a promotion. I know you've been saying this with irony, unfortunately everything that's been written about this case is bad and sometimes, of course, sensational in foreign media, nothing has helped the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, the investment potential of the Republic of Croatia, because the big investors who read it on the cover will certainly not be happy to run and invest in Croatia. It's also one of the consequences. Also, you reminded me of what we talked about many times and here. So, the few of us in the debate were discussing amendments to the laws against which we were asked a fundamental and key and important question that we are asking today and we have to get an answer to it by the end, is that consistent with the commission? So, then we asked, can we, at this time before EU entry, change the rules and is this in line with the European Commission? Namely, as you have well reminded both yourself and me and a lot of us before that, and it should be repeated because one part of the public knows nothing, unfortunately, everything the government has negotiated, all the views, all the decisions were crucial through the National Committee in the Croatian Parliament where, of course, all the leading people of political parliamentary parties sat. And they had insight, and they could have said the same thing, which is also important to say, to further look for information and consult. And never that issue of restrictions was ever asked at a session of the National Committee at that time. And finally, what you're all about is some of the audio names we're talking about these days and what we're dealing with. Yeah, one person has more, 1069, a little less days.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49724	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49725	Just to finish the sentence, it's important. A little less days in the fighting sector than General Gotovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49726	Replication response, colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49727	Yes, colleagues Kosor, my irony in this promotion of Croatia was the answer to those who all the time claim and think that this topic except Zagreb and possibly one office in Brussels were not dealt with. I want to convince you that even where we least expected it was a topic, not just newspapers, but also issues by representatives of the government of those countries. As regards the guarantee of compliance with the European Commission, if I have listened well to the measures of Article 39 of the European Commission, they have not been abolished, they remain in force. What are they waiting for? The day when Parliament will adopt amendments to the law or the day on which that law will enter into force.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49728	Next replica, dear colleague Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49729	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Lesar, for starters, one small correction isn't exactly all corruption affairs imported from the EU, and we've had some totally domestic like FIMI MEDIA or the Planinska case. But let's go back to the law that's the subject of today's debate. I have at least never noticed that there has been a dispute in the talks with the EU in any official document, nor in any official statement by the European Commission has the issue of an outdated, i.e. the conversion of old age from university to obligatory grounds for refusing extradition. I personally believe that if we are obsolete in our criminal proceedings, it must be the same reason for us to act on a European arrest warrant in the event of extradition. And that such practice is allowed to arise if from nothing else then from comparative law, for example, Italy prescribes in Article 18 of its law that the Court of Appeal refuses, and not that it can but refuses extradition if it is obsolete under Italian law. Ireland's Article 40 of their law does not have extradition if there is a statute of limitations in Ireland, Malta Article 13 of their law does not have extradition if there is a statute of limitations in Malta, or Belgium, which prescribes that there is no extradition if there is an age under Belgian law, not that it can be rejected but it does not exist. In addition, Slovenia shares in Article 12 of the mandatory grounds for refusing extradition in Article 13 of its law, and in Article 12, it is mandatory to refuse extradition if an age has taken place in Slovenia. It is the same in Slovakia, etc. I don't want to pick it up. In any case, the statute of limitations has never appeared as the subject of a dispute with the European Commission, and from the very framework decision and from comparative practice, or legislation, it turns out that such an arrangement is as we are allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49730	The replica matches my colleague, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49731	Dear colleague Grbin, perhaps Mrs Reding is misleading the European and Croatian public whether her statements have been chosen several times to return things before the 10th as you negotiated, but I allow you to know more than I do, and I will not interfere further. And when I mentioned corruption affairs, I said all the big ones were imported from the EU. Fimi Media is a disgrace to all those who participated in it, but by the amount of damage done to Croatian citizens, the ones I have listed are each separately five times larger. That's one thing. We have to clean these domestically because our actors were domestically committed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia by citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and these were imported into the territory of other countries, the actors are citizens of other states who protect them personally, and in particular refuse international legal aid, so our investigative bodies cannot determine today who has received bribes in the Daimler Aferia. You know who gave, how much he gave, what he gave for but you can't find out who received it I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49732	Next replica of the esteemed colleague Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49733	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your debate, you wondered why the current government did not accept the amendment of Parliament's Kosor at the time when this law was passed on June 28th because Mrs. Kosor's amendment was identical to what the government is proposing today. So that's not true. It is not true that what MP Kosor suggested is identical to what the government is proposing today. I, in fact, listened very carefully to 28 days before Mrs Kosor was discussed, she suggested that the 28th June be completely abolished by the time limit for the application of the European arrest warrant, i.e. it enters into force at the time of the adoption of the law, so on 28 June. The government today proposes that the European arrest warrant take effect on 1st January and this is in line with Mrs Vivian Reding, so Mrs Reding has understood why this government insists on the deadline, so the difference between what the government is proposing today and what MP Kosor has proposed is the difference in time in 6 months. Mrs. Reding realized that this government insists on these 6 months just to change the Constitution to prevent obsolescence of such serious crimes as Perkovic, or that all serious crimes could be prosecuted. And you, just as the HDZ says today, do not have to accept the change of the Constitution, but it will be a very clear message to Croatian citizens about what you think about the processing of serious crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49734	The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49735	Dear colleagues, Jelash, I allow Mrs. Redding's intellectual abilities to be far more than mine, so she understood and the government and I can't understand. I was just asking the minister to answer that question for reasons, nothing else. And my God, we're not all the same that we can understand everything the same or at least the same level. But what you just said in the end, you quoted your prime minister's leader as protecting criminals against constitutional change. Protecting a criminal of any kind is a new crime, so you're threatening me that if I vote against constitutional changes that I'm going to commit a criminal offence for which I can be sanctioned after the term of office. Are you really going that far? Do you really mean to open up a persecution against the MPs who will vote against constitutional changes?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49736	Followed by the replica of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49737	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, it is clear from fellow Lesar that Mrs Reding said at a press conference that the minister had promised to implement all changes quickly and unconditionally, and that they would monitor the adoption of a new law that would be without time limits and that only afterwards would they withdraw the measures and sanctions they had provided for. It also repeated several times and said it would help restore good relations between Croatia and European institutions. It is equally said that this topic would also end this chapter that should never have happened, the damage that was done to Croatia, same as Agella Merkel in Berlin said that the sadness that Croatia did not adhere to what she negotiated and negotiated. These are facts that are undeniable. And if this law has a recurring time delay and is not in place immediately after the adoption and publication in the National Journal, I am sure that we are waiting for further unbelief and measures intended for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49738	And the replica of Gordana Jandrovkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49739	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, you explained very well and pointed out the harmfulness of the government policy by Zoran Milanovic, you also pointed to a whole series of inconsistencies and inconsistencies that were happening to this law on judicial co-operation. But you also explained in a very logical and very simple way why you should be very careful with changes to the Constitution, that is, why you should not go into amendments to the Constitution before a new Law on judicial cooperation enters into force. And now there is a big, new challenge that will be in front of all of us, in front of the representatives here in the Croatian Parliament, because it is exactly the opposite of what the prime minister claimed that those who do not want to change the Constitution protect crime, so that is not exactly the thesis. Because let's make a deal, let's change the law on the European arrest warrant first, let's put it into effect, apply it, and then let's agree on constitutional changes. If they did, I'd believe your intentions were right and right. This is how you try, you try before the law enters into force, or end constitutional changes, get new provisions of the Constitution, and then start the case against the suspects here, first of all I think of Mr. Perkovic. So that's the plan. This is your plan and we will explain it daily and interpret it to Croatian citizens. Because he has the last intention, your intention isn't as good as you're trying to show it, but she's just about to prevent extradition. And now we're not going to talk ideologically at least that way. But what you're trying to do is cheat, you're trying to escape the obligation, the international obligation that the Republic of Croatia has made. And that's the biggest mistake. A mistake that will certainly come back to you. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49740	Here's colleague Lesar now you've heard what your plan is so you can respond to that replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49741	I agree with my colleague Jandrokovic that the issue of credibility is very important. And since there have always been two procedures as part of constitutional changes, both public, visible to journalists and to the public, as well as those that took place elsewhere. And it would be good for us to carry out these constitutional changes without any secret arrangements,... large parties and that all those who have a position to or against or refrain from voting remain in the Chamber and thus show their decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49742	Justice Minister Orsad Milenic has now come to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49743	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, so a few questions have been asked so far, so maybe now is the time to give a few answers. So the first thing that was all the time on the table with the European Commission was exclusively this date. And that's the beginning and the end, nothing else opened. So I took part in most of these conversations. The rest of what you say was technically because they were led by my men and nothing else was set from beginning to end. If you look at a decision initiating measures against Croatia pursuant to Article 39, then point 23. You can see the decisions that it ceases to apply when Croatia lifts the time limit from the meaning of 7 August 2002. And that's all. There is no other condition for this decision to cease. So it's an official committee document. So there was nothing else on the table. There's always talk about this old-fashioned, obligatory, academic, we're talking famous about it, and I don't know. I mean, it's not clear to me if the commission that's being put up as a contractor doesn't open that question and it never opened it up why we're opening it at home. Yes, we have chosen the obligatory age as there are 13 other countries in Europe from Germany on. And they all have it. I can now quote you their provisions. Yes, they do. And that's why the commission doesn't mind because it's such an interpretation. Let's go, and why? Because we believe that legal certainty is much greater if we prescribe conditions under which someone will be extradited than if we leave it to the court to decide, in one case, that he will and in another that he will not. Yeah, we think it's legal. Both you and I and everyone sitting here would rather it was prescribed by law than not. It's something that can be applied one way or another. I mean, that's, we think this is important for the rule of law, and that's why we put it that way. At first, it was in your mind, but it's not on the table, it's not a question at all. We're talking about deadlines here. Yes, one. 1. In 2014, I said in the introduction, that's what we agreed, that deadline will be. That's why we suggested him here. Now we can explain how we got to him, one of them started from one position, the other from the other, that's what we agreed on. And that's the deadlines ahead of you. The deadline that was proposed. And I don't know why you're going on about it now when it's something else that's agreed on the table and I think we can solve it. I'd like to appeal to one thing. I think we often run away to discuss specific subjects and specific persons. We can't do that, it's a matter of court. The Court of Justice shall decide exclusively whether a case is obsolete and shall decide whether or not it will be extradited. It shall not be decided by the Executive Authority and shall not be decided by the legislator. And that's why I'd appeal not to create that kind of pressure that we're just not going to talk about it because we're dealing with the law here and the law is written for everything and not for one person. Please, I don't think it's good to interfere with the work of a judicial authority. The question of the Constitution is mentioned. The position is very simple, this law has opened several things that we think are important for us at home and for our relations with the commission. Yeah, we've been through one, one story that's been going on for three months now, and I've been involved with the commission, and I'm in the good part, and now I'm going to go to the Justice Minister's meeting next week and I'm talking to my colleagues and I'm telling you that our reputation is not being kissed. Well, come on, I mean, I told you at the beginning, today I think three countries are being prosecuted before the court. Why? They did not respect the acquis said by the Commission. They say we are. I mean, it's something that's going on, and it's going to happen. Do you know how many months she's got? I think the data is monthly running 200, about 200 so-called. Infragment procedures most of them end peacefully, do not end up in court and in court means going between 50 and 70 proceedings a year against different countries. In the Court of Justice of the European Union, this is a picture of you. And in all these cases the Commission says you've broken, the countries say we haven't, decided the court. And that's it. That's what we need to learn. Maybe we could say this wasn't a good cause, maybe we should have had someone else. That's the thing that's not here to talk, because he's just here. But by the time we got there, we had to fight and fight for what we thought was necessary, and that was fair and equal treatment for other countries. I can't accept that anyone would even think about us that everything the Commission says is absolutely correct, right always, because that's not the case. Because if that's the case, then we shouldn't have come in. It's not like that! Sometimes we've made a mistake, sometimes they'll make a mistake. We got something here we said to change. That's what we said in seven months and we change it and nothing else, nothing less. Why did that happen? I mean, there's an irony of translation and this, that, but that's all true to you. The same people who wrote the law now wrote the law in 2010. It is true, in 2010, there was no official translation. It was issued on 29.10.2012 in an official messenger or, as it is already called, the Gazetti of the Council of the European Union. So that's the official translation then was. And you know when it was changed? 20 August 2013 Yeah, after all this started happening, they realized they had the wrong translation, and if we're looking at that wrong translation that was then officially we could do this. Now we can talk, you should have read English. Well, we've read it. That's why we said we'd talk about this, which is why in 7 months, we were technically consulting, so at the level of the assistant minister. Yeah, and the whole time this is happening, we're having parallel conversations upstairs. I met with both the vice president and not just this one time. I mean, that's normal. We have more issues. We were just talking about five things last time. The law was just one. Next time, we'll talk about something else. So let's learn that this is something that is now, which will happen in the future where each country defines its interests defines them. Yes, the government defines them as he believes they should and implements them. Sometimes you're right, sometimes you're not. The important thing is that you're correct about it, it's important that you stick to certain ouses. When the matter is solved as it is in this case if you've already watched our press conference then you've seen what's a common conclusion. Done. What's the matter, we draw the line and move on. I mean, that's just how it works. We need to learn here and the Commission needs to learn. 'Cause you know, enough with the talk here I'm gonna say it now. Me too, I don't know, we're now fascinated by what someone was disappointed with us or someone's very sorry. Well, I must admit I was disappointed that Croatia did not join the EU in 2004 when we belonged there. I was terribly disappointed! Or 2007. Well, my kids don't have maybe that's why they had a full future. And it's a bigger disappointment than whether or not we've changed something, a small provision of the law or not. So what now? I mean, let's learn to respect ourselves, so even if we make a mistake, if we say we're wrong, we'll change. We have the right and then we have the proper procedure and treatment. And you kept mentioning yourself, I don't know any other countries. Of course, it is not good to compare with other countries. However, if you have Croatia, you have two other countries that have an identical article 39 in contracts. You have one of them who changed the month and a half before the entry, and the same provision came into force on the day of entry and never launched any measures against them. Is it not normal for us to rebel if they will move against us? What we should have as were the suggestions to go up, bow down and say, give more sanctions to justify how sinful we are. Well, I don't think I can figure it out, I can't accept it. If that's how we're expected to represent Croatia, I don't think that's how we're going to do it. So we have the right to do that. And what's been going on right now, I think it justifies what we've been doing. I repeat, was it a good cause, did we need anything else? I mean, that's the way it is. There'll be something else. But let's learn and act the way it is, and what's basic you have your own interests, define it and it's your duty to spend it. Nothing more, nothing less. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It all comes down to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49744	Now we move on to replicas. His first call was from a colleague, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49745	Dear Minister, you said it was convenient to compare yourself with other countries. And is there much damage done for Croatia? It's not about the great harm, the sanctions. It's about credibility. You don't fight at the honeymoon. We cheated on the EU before joining the EU. It's about credibility. And the other thing, heights defend themselves on the right thing. You're in a little bit. You've been fooling around for three months with that very mistake of yours. You're wrong! And nobody said hello, we were wrong, now we're gonna fix it. You made a mistake. And please don't be like Mr. Milanović, who, with Lex Perkovic in his hand chases instead of a spear with Lex Perkovic on a windmill like Don Quijota. Don't be his Sancho Panza, because it's not necessary because you see that a mistake has been made but no one will say yes, we've made a mistake. You imposed a three-month argument about it, you first claimed that nothing was done. This is where the prime minister swore we wouldn't give in, that we'd be stronger and stronger. How come we didn't give in? So if you did not give up what you gave up on 15.7. So don't give in. If we're 100% right, we fight, but what are we fighting about? We used to talk about things that don't matter to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Two-and-a-half million people are on the verge of debt slavery, and we think about it, you like it as a government, for sure it suits you. So who's looking at Linic who says no, we don't want a billion dollars, a billion and a half, maybe two... You will sell the roads, you will sell the Croatian insurance, you will sell the Croatian postal bank, you will sell everything, and we will go on about lex Perkovic and we are all actually like Don Quihote with lex Perkovic on the windmill. I think that's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49746	Second replica, dear colleague Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49747	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, if I understand and understand correctly, you've pointed out that it is in some way gratuitous to discuss whether it is an age-old obligatory or academic reason, something in that sense. I would ask you to comment on one expert opinion given by Professor Zlata Djurdjevic of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb prior to the adoption of amendments and additions to this Law on judicial cooperation on 28 June of this year, in which she says, I quote: in relation to the violation of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia under the law of the European Union in future criminal justice cooperation, two should be highlighted. One is a time limit, and the second important mistake that the Government made in this proposal by amending the provisions of the existing law is that it made Article 20(2) of the Facultyal Reasons for refusing a European arrest warrant from the former Article 21. Such interpretation is wrong and violates the Framework Decision on a European arrest warrant. Obligator and university reasons for refusing a European arrest warrant refer to a court, not a state. Therefore, when it comes to the university reasons for refusing a European arrest warrant, the court must be able to refuse or accept a warrant and the state must not deny it the possibility to decide. Among the university reasons cited in the proposal as binding, refusing to..., there is also the representation of limitation, prosecution or enforcement of criminal sanctions under domestic law. Thus, such a solution violates obligations under European Union law that it has fulfilled during accession negotiations. This provision, which Professor Djurdjevic holds in breach of the provisions, obligations that... across from the access contracts remain and now according to this amendment of the law in this law. Please comment on this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49748	Third replica, colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49749	Minister, you were wondering why we're asking further questions now, why we're asking additional questions. So do you have a twin brother, you don't. June and now, you're the same man and we're the same people, so you made us reserve everything you say, don't be mad. That's our job. The European Commission has never been an unspeakable authority to me. Some, yes, I don't. I suggested four possible topics, here's a fifth. A banking union where the European Commission is going crazy for the project without asking Croatia much about it. What do you think any of the members of the Government in this House would get full support to enter this topic I will not say in dispute but against the European Commission's intention to turn Europe into a banking union. Finally, that provision, which allowed the court in 2010 to decide whether to call for limitation or not, and now has to, because the legislative authority orders the court to do so. Anyone who does not believe in the Croatian judiciary should be written out of Croatian citizenship. You know who said that? Prime Minister Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49750	Replica, colleague Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49751	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I'm sorry to have to replicate to you because I thought you were one of the moral authorities and one of the knowers of justice and justice. However, seeing that you are now a little evading but coming to your own to confess but not yet, what is true, what is a mistake and what is the problem of Croatia. I believe there is a question with you between the party of the employer and you personally as an acquaintance. Do you admit a mistake or not, do you really bring Croatia into a hostage crisis of one infancy or dozens of them, do you constantly be on the side of those who committed crimes or be against them? Is it the deadline 1.1.2014 or is it the deadline, did you promise anything else from all the confidential and accessible information we have, or did you throw out the agreements again with those who are just waiting with sanctions. Croatia must not be hostage because of anyone's mistakes, Croatia has suffered a lot, Croatia has too many problems to deal with only the Ukrainian executioners. We have too many economic problems, and we need to turn to them. It's better to admit the mistake of both honor and honesty both to you and to the Prime Minister that, we've made a mistake, let's change it right now, let's deal with other problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49752	Replica, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49753	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I attribute your inspired performance to your temperament, and I can't blame it, except for the fact that the contents of your speech, which is that I think here, in the opinion of most of us, we're not a bunch of certain Smurfs that you've come to discover America. As a man who has participated in the negotiations, there are other people who have participated in the negotiations, and there are other people who have been trying to resolve some open issues with the European Commission or the European Union and there are other people here who understand what they are talking about. You're contradictory in your answers, and that's exactly what we've been telling you. In fact, we have suggested that politics does not restrict the judiciary's decision making when they base this job on judicial cooperation between the Member States. And you tell yourself, don't put that burden on the judges, and then that we've turned the academic reasons for doing it into obligatory and thus tied our hands to the judges we believe in and should leave the freedom to decide on concrete things. And instead of all of us amateurs these questions should be dealt with by professionals in the judiciary. So I'm just going to quote you something from the introduction of this framework decision on a European arrest warrant. The European arrest warrant mechanism is based on a high level of trust between Member States. Its application may only be suspended if a Member State seriously and continuously violates the principles set out in Article 6(1). This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are here today discussing your mistake, your government's mistakes, and your Prime Minister's mistakes. If you'd listened to what we suggested today, you'd be deprived of all these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49754	Time. Next replica, colleague Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49755	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Minister, when you say 1.01.2014, we agreed, and there's nothing more to ask. This is not your private matter, this is a state matter and, of course, we have the right to ask and we will insist that you tell us why you have defined yourself precisely for 1.01.2014, i.e. in the first version of 15.07.2014. This statement of yours reminds me of a statement by the prime minister who said I learned a lot, and I didn't pay for anything. It's like it's his own private business. Croatian citizens paid, Croatia suffered enormous damage even if you claim it did not. All the world media, all the European media, all the relevant European media, wrote negatively about the Republic of Croatia for 2 months. You have different titles that really hurt us both in terms of investment and economy, the functioning of the rule of law. One of them is "Croatia is ashamed only two months after joining the EU", the Associated Press Agency. And he's tens of them. So we suffered damage as a state, as a society, as a human. It's not your private business to say I didn't suffer any damage or the prime minister didn't pay the price. She paid for the state. But from your appearances and from this ease of existence, I realize that you simply do not understand that you are obliged to worry about the interests of the Republic of Croatia because foreign policy today, not only today but before, must always be in the function of living standards, strengthening the economy. It's a function of foreign policy, not that you're acting important and that you're saying I told someone something. Well, we can all say something to someone, but after that, we pay the price. And you are the price, but not on your own account, but on behalf of the citizens of Croatia, you paid very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49756	Next up is a replica of a colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49757	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, it seems to me now, somehow, that as far as stopping the action, which is certainly one of the topics that I point out in this debate we know, at least me, less than I knew and you know that I've also asked the committee a question. So, because you said here, I quote "to stop the launch of measures when the time limit is lifted." When the time limit is lifted. And the time limit will not be abolished when we have passed the law, now the amendments to the law, but the time limit will be abolished as soon as the law enters into force. So, the time limit will not be lifted now Friday if there is a vote on Friday but the time limit de facto and de iura will be lifted on 1 January 2014. If that's how you said the measures would stop when the restrictions were lifted, then it would be in a few months, not October 5th, as we expect. So I'm asking you to really further explain it to us. So, is it enough, have you agreed that it is enough for the law to be passed in Parliament or as you just said when the time limit really is lifted? And as far as constitutional changes are concerned, you said it wasn't because of the relationship with the commission, and there at the press conference in Brussels with Mrs. Reding you said that constitutional changes had nothing to do with it, they had absolutely nothing to do with this case. So, in the follow-up of our debate, I'm asking you to refer to that as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49758	Last line, colleague Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49759	Your Honorable Mr. Minister, in your brief statement, there was little contradiction. In fact, the Framework Decision on the European Arrest Warrant prescribed a college rather than an obligatory application of the statute of limitations. But you said something about the court deciding whether or not extradition will take place, not any executive authority. And there's this contradiction because Prime Minister Milanovic said a week earlier that we can't extradite Perkovic to Germany because of old age, he said. You're now saying that the court should do what we think. And in fact, lex Perkovic this is transparent and the public is talking about it because the SDP project has no doubt about it, only with one goal not to hand over Mr Perkovic to Germany so that he does not unnecessarily dig for certain things, i.e. that the Union of Communists of Croatia does not allow God not as the main suspect of murder.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49760	We're continuing the club debate. It is next to the HNS Club and Honorable Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49761	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On the last days of June of this year, the Croatian Parliament discussed and decided to amend and supplement the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States or as the law is called in the Croatian public the Law on the European Arrest Order. The legal doubt that needs to be settled by agreement with the European Commission as formulated by Minister Miljanic in front of the parliament has been unwarranted in our court as a difficult and burdensome political topic, which has been in the focus of the Croatian public for three months now. Not only that, heavy words fell, mutual accusations of positions and opposition, government and opposition when they came out of some old times of labeling and bickering at the harshest ideological division. The radicalisation of relations, the radicalisation of political speech, the radicalisation of the political atmosphere happened so rapidly and so quickly that many people in this country asked why. Asking questions that are the interests of both sides in this public conflict. The fact is that at the end of June, we adopted amendments and additions to the laws that included how much I remember 80 articles and that only one of those 80s was actually very recommended this entire time of the three months. We have then recognised and recognised the novelties that the European arrest warrant system has suffered since the time we passed the 2010 law by amending and supplementing the laws immediately before EU entry. Today, the opposition requires, among other things, that everything be returned to the point before that, so that none of these changes that occurred in the system of the European arrest warrant that we are obliged to transfer to our legal system in order not to be transferred at all. The HNS' position was very clear from the moment the European Commission expressed an open reserve according to the time limit that we then introduced into the law. So the moment the European Commission made its argument claiming that it was an element that was not in line with the European acquis, the HNS took the view that whether the European Commission is right or we are right. If there is a discrepancy between our law and the European acquis, it must be resolved and there is no doubt there. But all this time these three months, we haven't been involved in radicalising the conflict over this topic, but we wanted to be part of the solution. That's how we acted, and that's how we'll behave in the future. We asked to find her, implement a sustainable solution. In 2010, when we discussed the adoption of this law, we from the HNS Club warned that it was an installation of a European arrest warrant which is a blessing for the Croatian legal system. Underlining the basic meaning of the European arrest warrant, which is that acts committed on the territory of another country must ensure the right of that country to seek extradition, so to prosecute and judge where the work is done. And that's something that's not a one-way road. It is precisely because Croatia is a tourist country and a transit country, which is an annual visit to a vast number of millions of people the likelihood that the net of foreigners will commit a crime in our area is greater than in some other countries. and it is in our interest that the European arrest warrant works as a two-way road and in cases where our interest in extradition is from another country. We warned then that there was a need to narrow down any administrative obstruction of this institute because it was our interest. The establishment of this institute when it comes to EU member states is of interest to us. The new law of June 2013 has been given an ugly name and we believe it is not good to cloud the fact that the entire system of European arrest warrants has been improved since 2010 and that we then did our job on time before 1.7 so that we would have this system implemented in our legal system. Common sense suggests that this topic has been overheated over every measure and that it spends huge political and social capital which, without a doubt, is better and smarter to spend on solving key problems above all economic problems, problems that directly affect the quality of life of citizens. Because this topic has simply proved once again one of our shames, which is that we are still as a society we cannot get out of our own past and that every detail of the story of our past is ready to go back a step and that we are still unable to live our future and that from every question we actually turn every question into ideological conflicts, into divisions, into deepening differences, and all because of the past. As far as we're concerned, the principles are very clear. All perpetrators of serious crime must be in the same rank and must be tried for what they have done, without exception. As far as we are concerned, these principles have also led us to welcome the Government's decision to propose, on the basis of the agreement reached with the European Commission, a practical withdrawal from the time limit on the application of the laws contained in Article 132a. And the issue of antiquity that is at the heart of public polemics will not go away with this solution, the issue of limitations will be debated for a long time because we do not simply have in these cases a uniform legal practice. Perhaps now this last case, which is the Supreme Court's decision in a case that has been ruled at the Vukovar County Court at the request for extradition from Slovenia, may be the very decision to define how to treat cases of limitations in the future. And to repeat in the end, the HNS club, the Liberal Democrats, welcomes the government's proposal to abolish the time limit and will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49762	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas now. The first one was answered by counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49763	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague Beus, I have listened carefully to and responded to your part where you determine that you were a 28.6. when you voted here in Parliament on the said law, you successfully carried out a part of the European arrest warrant. Can you tell me that on 24.5, Friday was, we passed this successful law, and we know that the German Bundestag 7.6 will ratify or not ratify the Croatian Accession Treaty. Which seems to you that we would be a member of the European Union today, because I see that the Prime Minister, as a party, has successfully brought you to your sense of purpose when you are 13.7, you remember, to disable the launch of constitutional changes, so he told you to have eight weeks for eight words, not to be too quick or too slow or too easy. I see he's brought you in for the purpose of that part. But tell me today whether we, with such a successful European arrest warrant and through such changes, would be a member of the European Union. I hope you answer because the minister won't answer any of our questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49764	Replication response, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49765	My friend Boric, I don't understand your divination, but I can tell you my position. I would be much happier if we had talked about the law and decided in February, not June, and that if there were any objections to this kind of caliber, we had resolved things in time and before entering the European Union. That'd be better for everything. And as for the arrest of the cause, you know, we were brought in by the purpose of the citizens the first time we went to the elections, so when we became a parliamentary party, we've been brought to your senses ever since. And all this other, eight words, eight weeks or maybe five words, five weeks, you'll see that in a few days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49766	Next replica, colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49767	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. A colleague, Beus Richembergh, said that today the opposition is asking for everything to go back to the way it was, so none of the changes, the last changes to this law, are respected. That's not true. So my club has proposed only an amendment in that sense to give up the time limit and that the law enters into force immediately. And as you've seen, colleagues from the Labour Club have withdrawn their signatures from that joint proposal. Therefore, in the opposition, we do not all ask for the same, so let's say giving up some of the Council's framework decisions that we believe are rightly incorporated into the amendments and additions of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49768	The replica matches a colleague of Goran Beus Richemgergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49769	Comrade Kosor, you're absolutely right. It is true, we have two different proposals and three different approaches as far as the opposition is concerned, and I have unfairly generalized. That doesn't apply to the proposal you made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49770	New replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49771	Dear fellow Beus, you said this topic was, I'm talking about lex perkovic, overheated. I agree, too. That's what we were talking about. She's overheated. However, it would not have been overheated if it had responded in time, it was warned in time. Whoever overheated the subject, so Mr Milanovic, who said no, will not wipe our floor. Now both the bathroom tiles and the floor are wiped out, they're all wiped out with us, and we're erasing the floor and bathroom with ourselves, and I don't know what we're not erasing. If the cards had been broken out for overheating from the hands, it was said immediately that, as the minister now says, we were already in the 7th month, 4.7 said that we would agree to change, then we should have said that, we were wrong, we would agree to change, we would agree... and the prime minister shouldn't have strengthened the muscles at where he knew he was going to lose, he went boxing, the easy fly category went boxing with the heavy categories. Normally he'll lose. And now we all need to create a picture of how he won and how you all won together. You say we can't get out of our own past. Well, because we didn't do anything to clear up all the dubious things from that past. We're nothing, we're the only communist country, a country in transition that hasn't made a lustration, we couldn't make it because of the war. But then we could sanction the crimes committed after World War II. We could have done it. Not one single government has done it, not that of Mr. Tudjman, not the government of Mr. Racan, not the Government of Sanader, not Jadranka Kosor, not now Mr. Milanovic. We'll see what we can do in the future. We'll be going back constantly if we don't draw the line once and say let's process everything we need to process. Is this law, I doubt it's exactly what there are some dubiouss in that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49772	Thank you very much. Time's up. The replica matches a colleague of Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49773	I'll start at the end. So, the old thesis is to live in the past the one who hasn't cleared up with her. I can partly agree with that, but you know sometimes to clear up with your own past requires a decision on preparedness to do so. Look, it's a matter of character. I'm afraid we have no character for that. Why? Because they're too strong for the forces or groups in the society that live off that resistance, which sees the meaning of their existence in that reluctance. And as for the overheating thing, you know, I can only answer you two words, so you choose which one you prefer. It takes two men and a smarter man to fight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49774	Last line, colleague Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49775	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representative Beus Richembergh has just begun and ended up with this fact that we are burdened by the past and that we can't actually get out of that circle. And that's actually the first part of manipulation. Because this didn't come from us or only came from us but came from the EU and from the EU's demand to deal with everything, Member States to deal with all totalitarianism. Therefore, I agree with you that the decision on the willingness to clear up with the past is a matter of character, but here we do not have the willingness to deal with that past, including your position, because you say all crimes are of the same rank. Well, they're not. Because one is the crimes committed by the state and the state of terrorism and the state's crimes, and the other are grave crimes and all other types. And there's the key to the dispute, and that's what we need to discuss. In my opinion, these crimes have been happening since '45. Furthermore, we are talking about these crimes regardless of which side they are concerned, too few living actors so that with two, three convictions they can satisfy it now. It is far more important to give that condemnation, to be part of one of our cultural and historical heritage to enter as I just said in textbooks and from primary schools and beyond. Look at what it looks like, you won't just find it there. And with these attitudes that all crimes are the same and then we'll find a few more of those living ones and then we'll even it all out and we'll never get rid of that past. The EU's stance is to condemn these totalitarianisms, but the EU has also been created for forgiveness, not for the convictions and convictions of these crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49776	And that's where we'll hear the answer to the replica of Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49777	Dear Professor Tudjman, I am very concerned. Namely, there is one exercise in communicology that shows how discreet there is between what I told you, you colleagues Banic, colleague Banic to Mr. Boric and so on. You're already in the first step, so compared to what I told you, you're completely twisting what you've heard. Me, I'm appalled by the fact that you were in charge of the Secret Service. If you with such a weak cognitive function were able to conduct such services, God did not allow us to see what was in those files. And as for what I said, I never said or said that all crimes are the same. Well, that has nothing to do with the brain. Listen well to what I've said, all perpetrators of serious crime should be punished. And you say something else. ... That's not true. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't use those words. So the perpetrators of all crimes should be punished especially by the grave. And there must be no difference. Ask the victims, they'll answer you better than I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49778	After all, beus Richembergh makes sure that you address a fellow representative and try to speak offensive words. A respected colleague, Josip Kregar, will speak for the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49779	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. An uninformed man who would listen to this debate would probably not be able to find a common denominator of such different attitudes. However, I assume that everyone is able to notice that it is three legislative proposals that have a common denominator, which is to meet the European Commission's request for a deadline until which the provisions on the European arrest warrant will apply. However, an uninformed observer may find it difficult to understand why so much anger, anger, qualifications are heard in the debate. Where does such a temperament or such a type of political discourse come from? Does he serve deeper and further divisions in Croatian society or not? But the explanation probably stems from what some speakers pointed out, which is the fact that there was a phase that is otherwise referred to as moral panic in literature where important and irrelevant elements of a situation have mixed up. It is necessary at this point to isolate and concentrate on what is important in this debate, and that is what is actually proposed by legal amendment. I know that at the stage of that moral panic, difficult qualifications fall and that they are used by emotions of a wrinkled word. We heard here that we did not enter the EU because of communism, but some countries that had a far more difficult, rougher form of communism entered the EU than was Yugoslav. I'm surprised that this happened that there was East Germany entering the EU so calmly that Poland or the Czech Republic that had severe dictatorships without a problem was accepted and that this qualification should be worth it to us. But I remember that such an ugly and wrong qualification was also given by a spokeswoman in the European Commission. That's why I'm not surprised, but I'm surprised that the speakers didn't pay any attention to what conditions were needed to bring us to sanctions. For me, it wasn't questionable for a moment. It would hardly come to such situations because Croatia can count on others with the same interests of the marked country to defend both its interest and its position. The economic consequences of investment and the like were discussed here, the decline of trust in Croatia. But forgive me, we're just arriving at the number of tourists who came to the then Yugoslavia who was the communist dictatorship and the dungeon of the people, and what did they come to see how we lived? No, they came because Croatian tourism was developed, a country beautiful and advanced. What should be taken into account, however, is that there should be no use of such expressions as shame or such because this law does not change because of the feeling of shame or the transfer of guilt. It is changing because the government is aware of the risk facts that would mean further tending and tightening to the European Commission. Another important thing I want to point out is the fact that there is little understanding of what the context of the European arrest warrant is. It is an instrument that is due to changes actually made by adopting something called the Stockholm Programme, a programme of unification and homogenisation of legal situations in the field of all EU member states. It's a European arrest warrant. Of course, with the Stockholm Programme, some things were not acceptable to us, and they were not actually acceptable to other members, so those changes initiated by the Commission on family law, real rights stopped or rejected. One of the things that remains and we will talk about in this House is the fact that Croatia has increased demands regarding the application of the European arrest warrant in all the things in which the Croatian interest to be extradited or given to those who have committed crimes and... because the European arrest warrant wanted to rush the extradition procedures and he did so. Procedures were reduced from about a year on average to 48 days. This is what the European arrest warrant wanted to achieve. But one fact was also missed from the pay phone as many arrest warrants. There were 78,785 arrest warrants in the period 2005 to 2011. What about 75% of arrest warrants that haven't been extradited? There has been no such time limit, but the courts have refused to hand over and apply the arrest warrant for some other reasons primarily because of disagreement in the definition of being a criminal. In 2009 alone, 15,827 arrest warrants were issued, and 4.431 were realised, which is slightly less than 28%. Why are these statistics usually boring speeches? So to show that it's not about one man's question, even if the law is called his name, two people, or I don't know who's being charged with political crimes. This is about a mechanism that concerns at all co-operation in the EU of all judicial authorities. It is interesting to note that the countries that issued the highest order are Poland 31%, Germany 14%, France 11%, Spain 5%, etc. But also statistics show that the country that rejected the most arrest warrants is Germany, then Romania, the Netherlands, Poland and Great Britain. I'm saying this for three important reasons. First, does it not note that there has been an incredible shift of attention from a mechanism of cooperation in the European Union against criminals to the question of historical interpretation, to a question of one person, to conflicts between the Ustasha and the Fates. The second thing, we must have and it is quoted by Mr. Mlakar, we must trust the national judicial authorities and the Croatian national judiciary and then we must take care of the judges without that external pressure. And imagine if it were to happen that the court rejected one warrant, a European arrest warrant, and it was something that was political in this sense that I was talking about a sensitive thing. What would be the reaction of a public-oriented person like this, so as to interpret freedom of choice? Courts shall act without such external restriction, without such external pressure. In the end, there's one more thing to say here. The non-delivery comes primarily because it does not show the desire of many members of the European Union to level their legal, criminal justice systems. Mr. Lesar spoke of something that is of interest to Croatia, which is to process those works in which it is quite evident to say an element that is..., I do not know exactly what, the fact to be investigated, but should be issued an arrest warrant against some obviously European Union official because Mr. Sanader says he did not give money to himself but to use it to get some affection in those bodies. The second thing is that it is really important to note that the European arrest warrant in a large number of cases is rejected because human rights are denied indictees or suspects. This is so serious that the Council of Europe has twice discussed this, that international associations have launched a human rights defence initiative for those who are accused by a European arrest warrant because they are denied many of those things that exist in national legislation to protect the human rights of suspects or defendants. Of course, time is running out, so I have two more things to remove. First, it is visible to everyone that this debate shows something that has been disputed, which is that there is no democratic confrontation in the Parliament and the possibility of saying its opinion. We had a chance today, an exercise in that, but also in the working bodies. So beware, the very fact that three parallel legislative projects are being debated in the House, that the proposings have been given so much time and opportunity to expose and justify each and every one for himself says that it is not about imposing, but about the need for understanding and tolerance in making such an important decision. The fact that there's not a majority on either side or on the other side... that's the thing that can bother us, but it can't motivate us to say it's a non-democratic system. And let me get back to the beginning, what in this document can be done to the Government's proposal as a common denominator is certainly meeting those requirements in the negotiations, talks with the European Commission and the Commissioner to resolve this situation. Therefore, we have a situation here where our decision will not only be about this or that legislative proposal but also about whether we want to be on the side of Croatia that has achieved such success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49780	Thank you. They're following the replicas. First Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49781	Dear colleague Kregar, I'll start from the end of your speech. You said, you asked me how much I understood and later you realized that there are conditions for democratic confrontation, that there are three different proposals that are on the agenda today. However, you should be reminded that the Committee on European Affairs has unanimously concluded that a debate should be held until two days ago, it seems to me ten days ago to the Committee on European Affairs. To this day, we have not been invited to the session, and the majority and chairman of the committee decide, until today we have not even been able to discuss it. Which is why, because it is like this is some sort of important committee that could send some dissonant tones to the Croatian public. It's just proof that it's a manipulation of democratic principles, pure, and I guess we'll discuss it on the board, and we'll discuss it very sharply. You said one thing, you asked if it served such a temperament that was expressed here in further divisions. There are two honest divisions in the Republic of Croatia, this is all politics. There is a division of the rich, the hands of the rich, and most of the poor, to 2.5 million people in front of debt slavery. It's the biggest division. This is pure manipulation, pure manipulation so that it can't be seen, to hide it, to push under the carpet. This won't deepen the division between the right and the left because both the right and the left realizes what they're doing, but the division between the rich and the poor will get bigger because we don't do the job that we need to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49782	The replica matches Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49783	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, your objection concerns one committee. The parent board for this item of the agenda is the Committee on Justice, there are several members of that committee who are here in the hall and who can testify to how and how long the debate on these legal proposals has been. After all, it has already been quite a break in the time of discussion, and I think that there has been an expression of the fact that I can express very different and conflicting opinions. As for the division that you point out to the rich and the poor, it is quite accurate and I am not quite sure that this debate has reduced the degree of that division, but I am quite sure that such an observation does not concern this item of the agenda and the European arrest warrant. Because it concerns very specific things, not what would give this person or that person the feeling of being cared for.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49784	Second replica, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49785	Thank you very much. Prof. Cregar you said that today in a nice, quiet tone you were discussing and you said that heavy words like shame are being used, etc. And now you explain to us what word, which word would we use for something that was voted on June 28th, and on Friday, October 4th, will be otherwise voted, otherwise decided, completely reversed, so completely changed? Is it insecure or ignorance or not to say again that there's no shame or stupidity I don't know what it is? And secondly, in the end, you said actually and finally to ask why all this was done, why was the law that existed on June 28th that was in line with that European arrest warrant? And in the end, when we talk about this shame or I don't know what it is that you see many people in Croatia and outside Croatia waiting in fact to expose the shame of employers who in the 1970s and 1980s liquidated, so they executed many people in emigration. There are over a hundred and more of them and that no one in this assembly or in our politics has spoken of it, but they write various media, sheets under the grains, lists of people with different code names from some Greek birds from the Greek mythology of Homer’s epics, etc. We need to clear up once, in my opinion, with our past so we can build a peaceful future.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49786	The replica matches Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49787	Dear Mr Grubisic, I find it really appropriate to calm down the tone of the debate and it is good that we had a break at one point. But I'll look back at two things. First of all, I think and remain that this is not a matter of shame on reputation or face, but of Croatia and the EU's relations issues. My opinion is personally that this should show Croatia where it belongs in the EU, how it can and can behave and whether it has the opportunity to oppose what it is told. Many other countries have been through such cleaning and such exercise. Hungary, especially Poland at the beginning of its membership, as well as other countries. Not only the former Eastern European countries, even France, have passed such periods as have led to very difficult discussions with European institutions, especially the European Commission. Even in this lies the resistance of many and large European countries to further integration processes. So, if you are looking for what was the motive of this whole big case, he was in no way in the slightest thought of who did what to whom but in the great interests of who dares, and who cannot tell the European Commission anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49788	The last replica, colleague Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49789	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Kregar, we have heard from you all kinds of ancestors about justice and justice, the defense of the defenseless but we have not heard a word about the Croatian Constitution. You have not mentioned at all Article 9 and its specifics in which it is clearly said that a citizen of the Republic of Croatia cannot be expelled from the Republic of Croatia, nor can citizenship be taken away from him, nor can he be extradited to another country unless a decision on extradition or surrender has to be made in accordance with the international contract and legal gains of the EU. We haven't heard a word of that from you. A strict defense and presentation of something that cannot be defended. Now I'm going to tell you what an ex-fiancé says when he's testifying in the book "Man and His Shadow." Zeljko Kekić Spider says Croatia does not have you who have fought for it and died and jailed for it already have those former colleagues of mine who signed on to it 1/1. What do you think this testimony that visits Croatia and keeps saying that it was hired by both the UDBA and the Party to kill the fellow concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49790	The replica matches Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49791	I'm sorry, sir, that I didn't have the patience to explain the Constitution and what it says because I thought every citizen was famous, especially for MPs in the House. And I don't see any way to link that provision to the debate I've had or which is on the agenda today. Secondly, you have quoted and are obviously relying on the testimony of someone who declares himself a betrothed. I don't read such literature, I'm sorry, I don't believe in such literature. I don't believe that there are conspiracies everywhere and that the comforters have taken over our beautiful one. How's that? Well, the main argument is that definitely in 20 years the government wasn't able to make any result in the election. And the fact is, I guess the winners of the election ruled this country rather than the refugees.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49792	We're continuing to discuss clubs now. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Davorin Mlakar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49793	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First I'll apologize because today is the second time I'm talking about this subject, but here's what the Rules of Procedure will give me. At first we spoke as promoters, and now I'm going to speak for my club. I'm going to try to say it a little differently, though, not to repeat all those things, although there aren't 50 more of them that I've brought up before. For the sake of the Croatian public, I think that it is also worth saying because there have been different performances today, that when the law is being passed today, that one part of the MPs have been against such a law, and that our club has said that they will not participate at all in a farce about the adoption of such a law from the warning that there is a time from which the provisions of this law that are unacceptable to us and we are if you can remember it was not so long ago left the assembly. We also wanted to show you the ruling coalition and the Croatian public how deeply we disagree with such a restriction on the judicial cooperation of EU member states. Today it may be forgotten or used for various purposes, but we will just say that even today, on the correctional examination of this law, we are warning again of what is not good in that law. What can still be improved in this law even though it is close to 1700 hours and the debate is probably already enough for everyone if there is little goodwill in the proposings we could come up with a better solution than this is offered. We talked about accepting the principles of EU civilised states, we talked about how and when it comes to this law, some of the legal principles should be followed. One, I'll apologize to everyone, but perhaps it's convenient to use it safely the Prime Minister will at least understand, one of these principles is the pact of the sun servanda, which means that what you signed to have is to stick to it. Even some Latin sentiments say that the agreement between the parties is a contract that exists between them and that it legally obliges them, if not to third parties, then at least to each other. We signed a accession agreement with 27 Member States and became the 28th member of the EU. Among other things, because we have introduced into our legal system provisions concerning the European arrest warrant or any possible provisions concerning how it is handled in cooperation with other Member States. A law which, of course, is much broader but in this debate we have de facto in one or two articles, to the question of the time limit from which this law applies and to the question of whether some works have fallen into obsolescence or not and whose right is applicable in that case at all. However, what we have advocated and what we have spoken as legislators is also true in this address, which is that what we have signed is what binds us, that we cannot give up such obligations, and at least unilaterally by our own will, not taking care of all those who have signed such a contract with us. And we signed something that we changed three days before we joined the EU and, of course, accidentally, we believe that it was an accident, it happened just when all EU Member States ratified Croatia's accession treaty to join full membership. Today we listen to various arguments that want to defend the government's position, but unfortunately not only for us here in the hall but for the entire Croatian public, your arguments are extremely unconvinced. And it is true that there is a treatment of other countries' European arrest warrants, that there are some disputes about how to deal with it, that the question of how many of the orders have been issued is all true, but these are not remarks that have been put into the EU by other countries. But a complaint has been made to Croatia that it cannot unilaterally change the law of the obligation it made by signing the contract. So that brings us to the second principle of restitution and integrity or return to the former state, and that is why the law that we have proposed to leave outside the law which we have violated our contractual obligations. As the issue of negotiations between the Croatian government and the European Commission will be raised, this remains to be seen. You say it was on the table, it's all arranged, it's all settled. We from those statements in the media that we could come up with didn't exactly get that kind of security. We believe and hope that you are right, not us, but our experience teaches us that when we warned that what the government is proposing is not good that you disobeyed us and unfortunately proved to be right. Today we have dedicated ourselves to correcting your mistakes, correcting the wrong policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which it has led towards the European Union. And given this experience and this draft law again, there is doubt that you have not guessed now what are the obligations that Croatia must fulfil. First question we didn't get a valid answer to. If this is what you agreed on, why have you decided to enter into force on 1 January 2014. What should we wait for that law to come into life for three months to finally be applied? Who needs three months to understand one article of the law which says that the time limit from which the Law on judicial cooperation applies and to criminal offences committed in the Member States of the European Union is deleted. It doesn't take us three months to understand that norm. We've had eight days. I believe I speak on behalf of most Croatian citizens who can understand this norm within eight days and we see no reason why this law cannot enter into force within eight days. If there is a truth that you want this law to come into force, and in the meantime you change the Constitution, and we've already talked about it, so you need to do a little more serious work and debate than you did with this law. Your Prime Minister, when he represented the opposition, advocated a broad consensus of political parties, a public debate and broad negotiations before all parties' views could be harmonised so that the Croatian Constitution could be changed. He now tells us that we have eight weeks to understand eight words that are subject to the change of the Croatian Constitution. But we may have other visions in which part of the Croatian Constitution, if already changed, should be changed and should be changed at all every year or will be changed every time such an unhappy Prime Minister wakes up and comes with such an idea before the Parliament. We can conclude in the final debate on these laws that in less than two years of the term of office of this government, we have come from a random state to a country of a case that still fits or leads in the halls of the European Union and still is above our heads regardless of your convictions, and we are not saying that these sanctions are only the consequences of what you have already done. The damage was done to Croatia, and we warned about it when we talked about this law. Croatia doesn't have one today, I would say nice note that it has entered the European Union, it is not a small country, as popular as the 28th member of the European Union, it has become a problem within two months of its membership in the European Union, a country that does not meet its obligations, regardless of what you are built on such solid material and you can fight for the rights of the Republic of Croatia differently from those who once represented it. Since time does not allow us to have any further big debates, and in principle everything in this law has been said a long time ago, I will conclude with just one more note that I was saying and when we defended, that is, the provisions of the law proposed by a group of MPs. It's inadmissible and that's what's essentially in this law that you don't even want to think about, it's unacceptable that politics and executive power are imposed on the judicial authority when the constitution guarantees its independence. It is not only correct, it is not in line with international standards, and in particular with this Treaty of the European Union, that the executive authority imposes solutions on the judicial authority. That's why the law calls for judicial cooperation. And instead of expanding the frameworks for judicial co-operation where judicial authorities will cooperate with other Member States' judicial authorities, you are limiting them in the capacity of such cooperation because you impose regulations that cannot be applied in such a way as to professionally assess that it is best than the way the Government thinks they should behave. And that's the basic problem with this law. If you understand what it means to spread judicial cooperation, we have also used a framework decision to show you what motives were in its adoption and the reasons for judicial cooperation, so try to think about it in such a way as not to celebrate the fact that we can take different views here, as some say, and that we should be especially happy about it, but to try, in addition to our views on them, and perhaps with some of them to adopt. They show us exactly what happened with this law so that we could do much better if you tried to listen to suggestions, even if they came from the opposition side. The first time you missed that opportunity, let's hope it gets better this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49794	Thank you, too. We've reported several replicas. Branko Vuksic first answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49795	Dear colleague Mlakar, the basic question we have been repeating for days, and I'm guessing we're going to repeat and we're not going to get an answer because the answer was already said earlier in the claim that this was the rescue of Private Ryan. Why, why all this? Why three months of neurosis in the first place, why, as the Honorable Professor says, A cregar of hard words, although I have not seen that there are some hard words, shame is not a heavy word. And disaster is not a difficult word because this government is leading the country into a disaster at the edge of a break-in. And it wasn't a slogan. Let's move on as Sanader. We're moving on to the break-in. For the sake of the Republic of Croatia's dignity, it's been said. I mean, who questioned the height of the Republic of Croatia when we didn't get an answer to that question why? And the question is, what are we going to decide here? On what basis, for the last time we were told 28.06. Believe me, that's right. And then we said, and based on what, only on the word of honor? And the honorable word has already been trampled remember that of their 21 thousand times and we voted against, we didn't believe. We don't believe today either because the word of honor has been struck. There's another big controversy in all this. The prime minister says all those who do not believe in the Croatian judiciary recommend that they be written out of Croatian citizenship. But it is about the mandatory extradition of the provisions that says that the Croatian judiciary is not to be trusted. I even said that I am giving it the right, but a part of the government should be excluded from Croatian citizenship because it is in opposition to Milanovic's claim. Well, I guess now it's time to make up your mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49796	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49797	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Vuksic, you're right, but I'm afraid there's another stronger, worse or more dangerous claim, and I'm not going to use those hard words because today we've been very argumentative and politely interpreting the government's views, which is that this Prime Minister has said something else. That all those who oppose the amendments to the Constitution, and today it has been said, that they are actually committing a criminal offence because they are protecting the criminals to whom these changes are supposed to apply. I will order only for safety, I will say this and when I am not a parliamentary representative, putting on the dangers of prosecution that can direct the Prime Minister to his statements because I fear that our legislation is increasingly trying to hit his ideas and his words, however, these are too dangerous claims, and that they would remain just like this thrown into the wind. You may object, you have the right to a different opinion and I do not think that we should celebrate in the Croatian Parliament, it is the right to speak for what we stand for and how we think, not to celebrate the fact that we are allowed to talk at all. So are the changes to the Constitution. These are difficult words and difficult qualifications, and if we were to talk about a communication, first, the Government, headed by its president, should take care of who and what messages it sends.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49798	Thank you. Next replica, Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49799	As far as freedom of speech is concerned, you should go to the Croatian Parliament's website, see the archive of the 6th Assembly, see the unsettled acts and see what is there – the opposition's proposals. We do things differently. As for the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, I had the opportunity to read and listen to what Mr Hannes Swoboda said that the reputation of the Republic of Croatia had not been violated, and on the other hand, the European Commission was the one who acted hastily, and Commissioner Reding made statements that were inappropriate. The German ambassador yesterday, I had a chance to listen to him, he talked about the fact that Germany has no problem, that this is the situation between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission and that what Germany is concerned is resolved. And when our reputation is so bad, then I will ask you why the European Commission has given it what you call a concession from the Republic of Croatia that this law should only come into force on 1 January 2014 and not as you ask immediately? Here's so much for reputation. And one more thing to do. If you do not want the legislative authority to interfere with the judiciary then propose amendments to the Constitution, suggest that the legislative authority no longer adopts the Penal Code, that the legislative authority no longer determines what is a criminal offence, that it does not determine how criminal proceedings are conducted, that it does not determine what is obsolete, that it does not determine when it occurs. It's only then that what you're saying could stand. Until then, I have not noticed that we have introduced a presidential system into our criminal law in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49800	Thank you, too. Answer me, Comrade Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49801	My fellow coat of arms, thank you for your replica. You and I will not agree on much, especially in interpreting regulations. I've had opportunities to hear and be in the ultimate line of witness procedures you've conducted, and also interpretations of regulations by the Rules of Procedure and beyond. But it'll stay for another chance, I'll try to elaborate on how you're fundamentally wrong and how some of the knowledge you're legally missing so I can believe in your assessment. And as far as reading goes, you quoted a parliamentarian whose statement you so strongly believe. Unfortunately, you read very selectively. You have many others who have spoken completely differently from Mr. Freedom and not that they have spoken differently than they have sent us messages that what we are doing is not smart, that what we are doing is not useful and that what we are doing to Croatia. You're the only one who proves with these replicas that it's absolutely true that we live in parallel time because the only one who doesn't see all the damage caused by this work of government. Unfortunately, this government does not stand in its mistakes and performances and violent introductions of things that have nothing to do with common sense, so it is likely that colleagues from the position will become aware of what is happening around them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49802	Thank you. The next replica of Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49803	I welcome Mr. Vice President. I am new here and I am observing the situation in the Croatian Parliament I want to go through the replica here and congratulate Mr. Mlakar for this tenacity he performs here in the Croatian Parliament today, but I also want to say about this, here he is trying to convince us that nothing really happened, that it was some kind of change of the law for recreation, entertainment, and not that this refers to an attempt to try... and release the guilt of people who were in some past time, not so long ago involved or suspected of participating in the killings of people who wanted the Croatian state. Well, then we're being lectured here as a teacher in terms of these arrest warrants, so it's all expensive not to mention what we're going to talk about, so a European arrest warrant, so... we're talking about it like it wasn't about trying to get all these people to get rid of the blame. And then the strangest thing for me to say is that I'm new, so I don't know what I'm looking at here, our Bračans are very interesting and cute people, and I'm looking at this minister of ours as if he's on the Split Riviera and his colleagues who are here all the time, so there's a laugh and a laugh, a kick in the chair, a tip on his cell phone, a throwaway, and this colleague of his lives as if he's in some coffee shop and not here in the tall Croatian House, and I don't think it can serve you the honor of the Ministers and such behaviour on a subject that's very serious to the Croatian public and that many in Croatia are so much fun or funny. I'm very surprised and disappointed with their behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49804	Thank you, colleague, but you've replicated your colleague to Mlakar, and here I will honor your first replica of you, I don't know if it's been recorded before, but you're rephraseing it to the representative. And your opinion of the minister leaves it to yourself or alone. And the last replica of a colleague, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49805	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Mlakar probably the citizens of Croatia are watching this session today and they are wondering what they are doing in the Croatian Parliament, some act as if they did nothing three months ago, some constantly beating on the same and what they said three months ago are saying today. And it is very interesting everyone is talking about that Croatia has not suffered any damage. He who knows the rating agency is very clear to him why three weeks after the law was passed Finch took down the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia. And it's also very interesting to hear about what the politician said. A fellow Mlakar I now arriving two years ago at the Parliament I saw the whole order before the Croatian Government, came from the European Commission to bow down to the great leader and apologize that they misjudged when they said they were going to impose sanctions, that they totally misunderstood this law that was passed two months ago and that it doesn't matter what happened so let them not apply it like that but let the law apply to them until 1.1. because people simply need to be apologized because how can someone accuse them of doing something wrong? However, it is very interesting that the government's reaction at the moment as soon as the commission was mentioned that sanctions would be introduced that we would be left without these funds for the Schengen is very interesting that then the government reaction was different. There was no more pride, no more pride, and it went to a conversation in Brussels and look at someone in Brussels saying someone smiled and nodded their head and said in Brussels what he didn't even want to say a few days ago that he was going to do convincing us that something was going to happen. However, colleagues of Mlakar, look at counterpart Linic now that he's gone to America and these billions and a half dollars when he's in charge of this Lex Perkovic, the Croats will pay about 40 million dollars more interest in the next 10 years than they would have paid if it hadn't been for this. So let the colleagues on the right say what they want.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49806	Thank you. We have a colleague's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49807	Dear colleague Shuker, unfortunately, we will never know what we've lost to the fact that in the first months of our membership, we've shown ourselves who we are, and we'd like to be better. We've had the illusion that we're better than we are and that's probably the delusion of many. However, this issue remains that you spoke about in front of the Government, and why they threatened us with sanctions from the European Commission. Is it because of the HDZ guilt again or because of this law that we're changing now? And this law I'll remind you we brought it to you when the fat already coalition government this government was in power and when we proposed don't sign this deadline, it'll cost us nothing to do with our commitments. Today it seems as if we were talking about parallel weather as if we had dreamed, as if we had not come from the same group, and now suddenly we come back with the same findings, again the law is fully in line with the EU acquis, again this law is ideal. He only had no answer to the question, which takes three months for him to come into effect. And I would be pleased to think even to support that law if I had received at least one concrete, valid, reasoned answer why the law of one article takes three months to come into force. We are already a member of the European Union, and when we have delayed the application of the law until the entry into the European Union, that was still understandable, now that we are absolutely a member, it is incomprehensible that we should wait three months for the law to come into force or why this government, when it has negotiated so well, did not come with that law at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49808	Thank you. We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the SDSS club Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49809	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. In my four terms in the Croatian Parliament, I do not remember a law that has been discussed as much as this law has been discussed. I don't remember as much public energy as it was started around this law and sometimes man thinks that in Croatia everything else is more or less normal, everything works more or less perfectly, except for this law and our relationship with the European Union. Indeed, man thinks that we do not have more pressing jobs or greater concerns than is the issue of one specific law and one problem such as co-operation with the European Union in matters of justice, and things are not like that. But things have turned out to be what they are, which is that we really are, don't mind me saying it, I don't have any cover for it except what I'm about to say, but it's not with a grudge, which we allow ourselves to contaminate every bit of the situation in our own public, in our own society, that we don't live in real Croatian time, but live in former times, in former problems and in other people's problems, and not in our own. And that's the state of things. Ubossi became also in this assembly, maybe it's important to someone, it's not important to me, it wasn't when it was important, let alone today when it was irrelevant, it became the most important word. Who cares, I don't know. Why does it matter to him, I know something, but you know how much I hold onto it, how much to black under the fingernail because it's another enslavement of Croatia, its public and its problems. Did the government make peas at some point? At some point, it is. Were there any reasons why we should have done this? I don't see them. But that's where we were working. It is unacceptable for colleagues and colleagues, for the prime minister of a country to be as important as it is and as much as we depend on it, to be a means of denunciating our national prime minister, as much as I disagree with it and to realize that it is making mistakes and that it is done by national television and national media. What country, which political consciousness allows itself? And we let ourselves. We act as if we have absolutely no self-awareness about what we have in our hands and what is our responsibility to it. That after an agreement has been reached, one of our colleagues in the parliamentary life of European national parliaments is giving us a lesson, as much as he speaks to the dictionary of the dictatorship, and then we are still calling for this, and that motivates us to discuss here and deal with each other on the basis of who needs it. Croatia, absolutely..., to our children, to our old people, to us as responsible people for this country absolutely not. The release of transcripts of diplomatic transcripts and diplomatic notes, and that one stops to compromise its own country, while compromising the country our diplomats are talking to, is inadmissible. And we instead of taking care of it, we're hitting on lex Perkovica as a dead donkey and my colleague a good speaker, and I'm happy to listen to good speakers, Mlakar, today a hundred and several times repeat why January 1st, and not right away. Well, isn't January 1st right now? Yes, it is. It will go like this, as it will be two years of our term in the Parliament as well. Now let me say a few words about what I think is important. There is no doubt that people should be responsible for the misdemeanors they have committed, and then those who have done so in the past, in accordance with the legal assumptions that exist in us and in Europe. There's no doubt! What about the people in our home in Croatia? Should they be responsible for what they did? Are the lives of our people who have been killed also less beastly than the lives of our immigrants who have acquired themselves under some circumstances probably very complicated for interstate relations equally? Aren't the lives of 8 or 9 old people in Varivods important to the Croatian judiciary like Djurekovic? Wasn't that people? Don't those 7 lives in Gosic matter too? But that's not what we're discussing. That's not why we're looking for a reason for the judiciary to start working. Is it the question of those who committed crimes against members of the Croatian people in the war of '91? '95. and not sanctioned is not enough motive to find cooperation mechanisms with neighbouring countries, with Serbia and with BiH to finish this story? No, we've never been as involved in these things as we are with this. Why? This is less important to us when it comes to our European face, it is less important to us when it comes to our legal order and legal certainty and credibility that has been talked about here today and the trust that has been talked about so much than the matter of this case. I doubt it! It's only in some possible and factory story that's possible. But in some real dimension, absolutely not. These are our problems we'll be carrying for a long time. And I'm willing to wear them as little as possible, as soon as possible, and finish them as possible. And this problem is easily solved if we remove the ideological-political dimension from it. This problem, in my opinion, is easily solved if we remove it from trying to wage an ideological political war and campaign after the war that ended. And when I am in my time knowing and being aware of what mistakes the government has made, I say, the one who criticises the government from the point of view of cold war rhetoric has no right, even when the government is wrong because it makes an even bigger mistake. And do we need that as a country? I'm sure you don't. Next year, we have a huge deficit ahead of us. We already have a deficit this year. Part of it's been inherited, part of it hasn't been released in these two years. Perhaps after the next two years someone will say that he inherited from those as I listen to these four years after each convocation of the Parliament when the budget is done then we always say we inherited from those. Well, of course we inherited it, didn't we? We're not starting at all. Therefore, instead of worrying about what will bring us reforms in health and education, which will bring us further privatisation, instead of worrying about whether we can sit down and talk about stopping this dangerous trend that Croatia actually reaches some kind of drum and that it is going towards some kind of bankruptcy we have no more obstacles and more important things than to discuss about lex Perkovic or to deal with Cyrillic. And to accuse those who say it is, we did it. That's why my colleagues and colleagues imploded me to the fact that today's tones were not like in the past debates, especially what my colleague Mlakar said. But on the other hand, I think it's time to stop the erosion that started because no matter what it looks like after two years and who's going to sit in these benches, and who's going to sit here where Minister Milenic is sitting part of this time and these problems will be then. And if you allow me in the end, and there are not so many small nations in Europe who are constantly trying to strengthen their burden of the 20th century as Croatia does. There are not so many small nations in Europe that try to increase their historic burden of the 20th century rather than reduce as Croatia does. And the debate that took place in the Parliament and the public debate unfortunately shows that we have no awareness of what our burden is and how important it is that as soon as possible we take it off, whether we are talking about the end of the 20th century or we are talking about the middle or we are talking about the beginning. If the prime minister intended to show that Croatia wanted to contribute as a new member to respecting each member equally, if he chose the style that opened the areas for controversy was it up to us to deepen it? Was it up to us to add oil to that? It's not. I am not sure that I am in opposition to be happy that this government will find itself in a situation squeezed between difficult social opportunities and on the other hand by a European relationship to a deficit that has grown to almost 5% in a month. And instead of focusing on these facts and competing on who's going to give better solutions in this regard, we're losing days, we're losing months, we're losing trust and we're losing dignity here at home dealing with this as soon as we're dealing with it. And the 1st of January will probably come into effect and it will be the way it has to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49810	Thank you. We've reported several replicas. First responds Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49811	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Pupovac came forward for a simple reason why I could do the same to you guys why you mentioned this why we mentioned it. But I don't think that's gonna get us anywhere. I think anyone who's taken someone's life or anything else has to answer for it, I think that's the elemental thing that everyone here should agree on in this House and stop there. But we can't get past some things. Who imposed this story, the story in the evenings of Croatia's largest EU entry celebration? Who planted that story? We of the opposition certainly didn't make it. I would also give you the right and agree with you that you, as you have responded to certain statements that you do not like on this side, but today I am honored Vice President Stazic and the other day the Prime Minister said that the president of my party went to lobby for sanctions on Croatia. I don't know how I'd say that except that some people have a problem at some point with common sense, but I'm not going to say that because that's a hard word. But I don't know how a man could qualify that. After all, the party that you were part of in the coalition for four years, you know how difficult it was in the negotiations for these negotiations to end, the party that ended the negotiations, no matter what anyone tells us that someone tells us that we are lobbying today for Croatia to get sanctions. Well, that's just funny. But there's a folk who started it first. That's what people often say well and who starts first. What one should have done after our witnessed historical friend in all these 23 years in Germany after they had raised their hand in the Bundestag to make Croatia a member of the EU that in a cowardly wage way we passed the law. So why didn't we bring it five days before we were such faces and we were so brave and we weren't afraid of anyone. But I repeat, who started first?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49812	Thank you. We have a Pupovac colleague's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49813	First of all, as far as HDZ President Mr. Karamark is concerned, I do not believe that the reason for his encounter with Mrs. Merkel had anything to do with what you mentioned and what was mentioned, which means that he sought sanctions for Croatia. My experience of cooperation with HDZ is far from any kind of experience. I therefore agree with you that this was not a statement that could have a foothold in reality. And as for who the first one started, in this kind of business, dear fellow Shucker, the one who bad-ends that's always the first one to start. No matter how someone first started the bad ending, that first one started.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49814	Thank you. Next replica, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49815	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I can in principle agree with your principled views that it is unacceptable to discredit my own government that it is unacceptable to speak against official policy especially towards the outside, but the problem becomes, instead of going then, you further addressed it to the current situation and to current relations, instead of going to implement the principles and rules of the game that should then be valid. He has the right to think that's what Kregar said, and in fact it's who can't say anything in the EU, and Prime Minister Milanovic said the same thing then no one will wipe with us... but what follows. It's the first time it's ever started like that. So we still have a little longer memory, so we know that policy of the 1990s and 2000s, respectively, came with the thesis that Croatia was in isolation, and it went against the decisions of its own government, so this House adopted a resolution on the jurisdiction of The Hague over Bled and Storm, although the previous resolution asked not to agree to it but to declare the Hague tribunal of jurisdiction, jurisdiction. So there was no question to this day which, knowingly, was who had forged those transcripts that they had then proved, or had not proved anything, or had not proved anything, because both Generals and Gotovina and Markac and Cermak had been released. So what we need is rules of conduct. Well, today we're aware of the situation that every minister when he comes out the first thing he says is we, the situation is like that, it's bad because we inherited it. In America, the rule is that no American president has ever said anything negative about the previous government for 50 years because it's simply a rule. Because it's simply a rule that voters have made a new decision and are going with a new... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49816	Thank you. We have a Pupovac colleague's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49817	Well, I could easily agree with you, Comrade Tudjman, first of all, when you're talking about having a closer or further past needed, not to put aside, but to keep it very under control. But in these 20 and a few years, it's hard for us to say that we're an example of the country that did it. Well, we haven't been able to do that in the last three months. Therefore, when it comes to the mistakes of these or those, there is no doubt. I'm going to repeat once again the legal dimension of any of this case, any other cases absolutely need to be separated from the ideological political dimension. And that wasn't always the case. Well, it wasn't shut down here either, and neither was the debates we could hear. And I'm absolutely into making rules. And about what I was saying about both public discussions and what I was saying when it comes to document protection and what I said about the protection of institutions, even when people who act in these institutions aren't aware of their actions, it's very important that we know how to do it and that we know... And the rules are certainly of that kind, they don't prescribe overnight, but I am willing to make them together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49818	Thank you. Next replica Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49819	Dear colleague Pupovac, I think it would be best to establish an investigative commission that should determine who started it first. It's on that polemic trail you ran with your esteemed colleague Shuker. You are like us laborers we warned about having far greater problems in Croatia than lex Perkovic, but you also participated as we participated in the debate, you did not avoid that debate and you participated and you talked about the measure of things. We are all subject to this kind of pressure that one other profession would probably have the right to talk more about and analyze what it's all about. For three months, the media is full of headlines right here until other cases that really are hundreds of thousands of people don't come to the headlines. Now that before he's a chicken or an egg, who he imposes on, you often know that the media can impose or sly politicians impose on the media. And gray eminences to each other. You said one thing that burned my ears that I should first resolve the issue openly with the neighbours, you listed Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I agree, but there's neither sitting nor the other side of goodwill. There isn't. First, in order to resolve this issue, it is necessary to resolve 1700 more the fate of the people who have disappeared, in order to show good faith, to resolve it first. However, we are only creating themes here in the Assembly and we never have these thematic discussions in which we should take our views and offer some solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49820	Thank you. The next replica is Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49821	Thank you very much. Mr. Pupovac at the beginning of your debate when you were talking about the situation in Croatia, about the really difficult problems in which the country is located, about the total sale if I understood the total hall, about the difficult social situation and your spiritual flow of thought, and also the excellent stage of the show you managed to replace the thesis. You were talking about who compromised this credibility, who contaminated these relations between the European Commission and Croatia and what, in fact, there was a confrontation. On one unnecessary, I really agree with you on one unnecessary thing. Look at what they're confrontational about what's called aquis Hungary, Poland. Look at what Prime Minister Orban is confronting in Hungary, the Minister of Health in Poland who said there is no bird flu, and that's why she was baffled by Europe. Not much Poland has shown itself in this sense, but in agriculture it has shown itself. And we're confronting around on parole terms, Lex Perkovic, or I don't know what you're saying about the avet of the past. Was that what we needed? Was it necessary for the Vidovdan Law 28? Six, which you voted for as far as I know. So, where did we come from by confrontation? What have we been confrontationing with the European Union on? Well, that's bullshit. It sucks. And now that we've been discussing it all day, we're wasting precious time and what Rome says is burning up just like you said. Total sales, difficult social situation, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49822	Thank you. We have an answer, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49823	First of all, I didn't vote for this law, but even if I did, it wouldn't change anything, not my responsibility or my understanding of things. This thing with Vidovdan and the team, I mean, I'm not gonna... Yeah, that's exactly the part of the story we're talking about, so January 3, 28.6. etc., I think if you want to find a date you can always find, but I recommend you not to find them because there are a lot of other things that might be found on your jacket, but I'm not going to look for them. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But I wanted to say something to my colleague Vuksic about this story who first started and what was first, chicken or egg. That question makes sense when you still have eggs and when you have a chicken or at least some of it. But if you don't have one of those, or if you're close to having neither, then that question doesn't make sense, and my whole speech went that way that we're close to not actually having eggs, and the chickens are wearing weakly. .../Laughter./
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49824	Thank you. Next replica Josip Djakic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49825	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Pupovac, you said this was all ideologically colored. I would even argue that precisely by changing the law that was in line with the European Union, it is clear that one party was behind its former members. behind the ex-executors and the ones who committed the murders. I would even agree with you on that. The exact ideological colour and defense that comes from the party. I wouldn't agree with you when you're only talking about one crime that happened in Varivoda or somewhere else. You forget 12 monks in Bor's village, you forget Vocin, Chetekovac, Choiluk, Balinca, a hundred just on my county of executed civilians, police officers or soldiers for whom there is no responsibility. Ideological coloring stands in all of this and on your part when you only talk biasedly about one victim, and the other you neglect. Let's be honest, it should apply equally to each other. International legal aid, warrants that are possible, reds are not sent from Croatia to Serbia, but from Serbia to Croatia they are. Similarly, this European emissary stands for our Maric, 12 years in prison in Serbia, I prayed to the minister, I prayed to the state's attorney, I said in which bush lies the rabbit, nothing. I said a man is innocent, I said there are perpetrators. No one's doing anything. You did well to say that the judiciary is not doing enough of its work. I'd agree with that. I would agree that this is an unnecessary debate just because of one man. If he's an executioner, then there's no point, there's no need and there's no reason to... for so many years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49826	Thank you. Answer me, Pupovac fellow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49827	If it was just a discussion about one man, we probably wouldn't have led her, and if she'd gone as a debate only about one man, we wouldn't have led her. Unfortunately, it started as an ideological political campaign and is only now calming down. It's only just calming down after this has been achieved and I hope it won't be restored when it starts to act on that warrant. I'm not sure, but I hope not. I hope from this, as the Prime Minister has said, we've learned something, everyone for ourselves and everyone as a state. And as for the crimes committed, eight years ago when we entered the first coalition with HDZ, there were 5,000 war crimes indictees in the Republic of Croatia, in investigations, convictions, etc., 88% of the ethnicity of Serbia. Procedural crimes against those who committed crimes against Serbs were minimal. It was minimal. This does not mean when I mention it to belittle or that I do not care about sanctioning crimes committed against members of the Croatian people. Don't put that in my mouth because everything I do and everything I say and everything I believe is different from that and everything I did before the war and during the war. And in this sense, it is important that we deal with this and, in this sense, it is important to initiate, re-initiate co-operation between the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia because it has stopped.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49828	Thank you. Next replica, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49829	Thank you very much, Vice President. I don't want to talk about who started first, I'll talk about the part where you asked why we're even discussing this. And you're looking at us all the time because it turns out that's what we wanted. No, this is what the SDP wanted with coalition partners, the government put on the agenda, which is why three days before the EU's entry was adopted, so we are dealing with today on the first day of the tenth month. And we'll do more work. This isn't gonna end. But I was distracted by the part where you were looking for some crimes that should only be discussed with Varivod. And I remind you again of Goli Otok, 7 and a half thousand, 7 and a half thousand members of the Serb people who went through that camp with the fact that General UDBA is still alive today, that '49. founded that camp and established it there, and that the 50th was declared a national hero of the then state. Is that a normal fact for you? Are these facts that perhaps you, as head of the Serb minority here in the Republic of Croatia, should respect. You go to the Serbs without a problem, but you will not come to Goli Island on 23.8. bow down to victims of totalitarian systems. They won't, because people choose where they go. But they're very wide around here, and I think about everybody. That's not true! This is how you represent yourself in the interests of these minorities you represent in the Republic of Croatia, why don't you come and bow down there. Why, imagine that these people who come there every year and have members and the Serbian people that they've been out of time for 20 or 40 years. Ask them if they are old-fashioned, ask them freely, and they will tell you what they have felt and what old age has caught them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49830	Thank you. We have a Pupovac colleague's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49831	As far as Golog Island is concerned, first of all, about my speech. I spoke as Milorad Pupovac today, as I speak very often in this House, as one of the equal representatives in the Croatian Parliament, as it stands in the provisions of the Croatian Constitution. And when I think it is necessary, then I point out what I think is politically important, and that means those that I represent in the Croatian Parliament by election procedure. As far as the Google Island is concerned, the Goli Island is undoubtedly a big spot on the historical face of the former Yugoslav regime, no doubt. But fellow Boric, that stain is not nearly large when you mention stains like the stains of the regime that preceded him. And since you've already pulled me by the tongue, and I didn't mean to say that, those who today want to ban Cyrillic in Vukovar because they have a legitimate reason, allegedly, would have to be familiar with the legal provision for the ban on Cyrillic adopted on May 25, '41. the years and even more so should be familiar with the implementation of the legal provision for the ban on Cyrillics taken on the same day, the same year, and which was to be implemented by the Ministry of State then. I didn't mean to tell you, and I hope I won't have to tell you again. And that we won't have that debate in Parliament. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] But when I said we should take off our loads of history I thought I was clear enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49832	Time, buddy. Thank you. Next replica of Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49833	Thank you very much. Comrade Pupovac, it's good, and it's important that you hope this debate will be quiet. She's now in good shape right now, this afternoon but I'm sure she'll be re-breathing in the assembly room and beyond. But first of all, because we didn't need it. I mean, we're in a position to discuss something, to fix it now. The government was wrong that we absolutely didn't need it. But I agree with you that we should watch what happens by the end of this term. Two years will pass quickly. I'm sure and I'm convinced that the problems we're having a hard time dealing with today than the debt deficits and everything else won't be any less than it'll be bigger. I'm sure in two years we won't be able to get out of that vicious circle. And that's why what I've been saying for two years is important. So, the curse or blessing of the words we say, of what we represent, of whether we change attitudes will welcome us in two years or if the elections are before. And that's something to take care of, and it's good for you to mention it. I will also say because, here I remember my term as prime minister and last year when we were so close, and so far from concluding negotiations and winning this important strategic and historic goal for the state, and when both you and your party colleagues have been urging you to leave the coalition. All minority deputies in Parliament would follow you, the government would fall, Croatia would not complete the negotiations and we would not sign the Accession Treaty that year and we would not be EU members today. So nothing would happen on July 1st 2013. I mention it because no matter how big our differences are, what our differences should be taken into account when we do this job. That credibility is the beginning and the end of everything. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49834	Thank you. We have an answer, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49835	Mrs. Kosor, Mrs. Kosor, I don't really have much to add to what you said, except I'd like to say one thing. From your words I realized that you are standing on the stand, if I have misunderstood, please correct me, then it will be just my words and not yours, that Croatia does not need lustration right now as some advocate, and I am looking towards my colleagues from HDZ because from their ranks most often comes this kind of call, it does not need lustration but historic discharge and that is another story, it is another kind of approach. And that's what we need to be able to get into the pragmatic political state of the country, so that we can be committed as pragmatic political people to what this country needs, not to war lost wars, not to war other people's wars. Someone has an interest in continuing the big story, and we have this big story in many ways broken. We should take a break from it, too, that's what I think. And that's why I think this thing needs to be done exactly the way it's supposed to be today, and that means we're adopting this law in the changes that are proposed and that this story goes its course. And that we can devote ourselves to what is real, real, today, and that means tomorrow's things of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49836	Thank you. And the last replica, Ante Sanader. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49837	It's true that chickens are bad for us, and it's true that we're in trouble, but that's also no reason for you to impose the guilt that we're discussing other topics now. I understand you and I appreciate that you said that UDBA means nothing to you, that you are not burdened with it, but you must understand that in the Croatian people many mothers are stuck because of these UDBAs, many graves do not know each other for the sake of this UDBA, many have served hundreds of years when we add up the total prison for this UDBA. You're imposing that guilt on us. So let's talk about it. Because for also 45 years we shouldn't have mentioned Bleiburg, 45 years we shouldn't have said what we thought, and all those who said ended up either on the naked island or ended up underground. And now that the subject is this law and what we didn't encourage and what we didn't look for is the agenda point here, you're putting us to blame as why we're not discussing chickens and eggs, but we're discussing UDBA. UDBA is our problem and this people expect to put that point on and, and to clearly reveal all the problems related to both the UDBA and the victims that occurred at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49838	Thank you. We have an answer, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49839	I repeat again UDBA is not my problem, it won't be my problem. If you want UDBA to be your problem, be your problem. But I just want to remind you then you should have said that in '91. Then you should have looked and turned to each other and said listen UDBA is our problem, not to let the key people of these same UDBAs form a party and lead a party. Is that a problem for me? It's not a problem for me because it wasn't just a case in Croatia, it was in many countries post-Communist and it's today. If they hadn't worked, they might have worked worse than them. So if you want that problem, if you can't live without it, go ahead, but I can live without it and I want to live without it. I think it's good for this country to live without him. And for those who again want to carry out this country through the story of lustration, those who declare each left government to be unnatural and anti-national, who in all things sees the consoling team should be told, so I think there are relevant institutions where such things are being observed and then I think they can be at home, and now we are an EU member, so they can also be in the EU. Therefore, they can choose according to the family’s payment status.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49840	Thank you. I'd like some attention. On behalf of the HDSSB club Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49841	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. Don't mind me if I accidentally repeat something I've already said in these three months, or God forbid I may have denied myself in something, but here I wouldn't be surprised that some colleagues and colleagues, there's a lot of these, and in the Law on the advice of young people or the Law on advice for young people who will be on the agenda in which they don't find UDBA, partisans, Ustashas, brushes and the like. That I think the Croatian public and we don't really care. We are difficult, one of the hardest roads as a new EU member, and we are a viewing specimen for our neighbours and for the Republic of Serbia and for BiH and for Macedonia and Montenegro in the weight of the road that the Republic of Croatia had to go through in order to become a full member of the EU. I realized this, Mr. Minister, I know that you can't say everything that you negotiated and negotiated with Mrs. Reding, and maybe it's so agreed that we don't need to know, and it would be good, given that in that debate we still asked well-meaningly, and not maliciously not wanting Croatian sanctions or problems, whether we have the green light of Brussels and Berlin and you said in the final word then that until the amendment vote you would tell us. Then you couldn't do it because such a position was made by the Croatian government that it would not give up on the solution you made, and we were against it, we left the Parliament that Friday out that the law would enter into force on 28 June. I sit here all day and listen, I didn't exactly report for replicas, I didn't want to spoil the mood of those who dig in costumes and past because I see Croatia in the future as a European country. Anyone who wants good for Croatia, and I believe that most of us should at least want it if we choose between the past and the future each of us would choose the future because then we live safer and healthier. I have seen this problem as a purgatory where Croatia has found its entry into the EU as our purgatory we have protected our "national interest" and we have shown that we have our own attitude towards the European Commission but it is not good for us at that time. We told the Prime Minister in an annual report when he mentioned the problem with the so-called. The "Lex Perkovic" law, which was not supposed to be called "Lex Perkovic", no law should apply to anyone's name and last name, so it's probably for them and for everyone who's dealing with it now, and it's embarrassing because he's got this epithet that any law in this country is being passed by anyone. It's not good and it doesn't lead to anything. The agreement is certainly such that neither the Government's position nor the European Commission's position is harmed. It's a kind of a retreat or we'd say bonus for the Republic of Croatia. And we're all sure about it together and you're a lawyer and I'm not going to go into some width and distance right now but we supported what you did in your term in these two years, and we think it's good because it's one of the most important fundamental human rights and freedoms, and that's what's agreed in Chapter 23, it's important for Croatia. And all the other problems if we're going to spread it, then we can determine what's crucial today in all of this, that it wasn't a technical problem that we weren't lost in translation, that we weren't misread, that's proof that we were talking about this for three months today all day from morning till nightfall. So it was a political problem that was resolved by consensus and no sanctions for Croatia. The consensus is that the government has also withdrawn what it has proposed, but the European Commission did not want to offend the new member of the Republic of Croatia but is still monitoring what we are doing and following what we are going to take as further moves on this problem. Because in order to preserve the face of both the Croatian government and the prime minister, the EU and the commission had to pull back manually so that what we all said didn't turn out to be the prime minister's move towards our positions because we thought otherwise, and that's not good. We wanted good for Croatia and I do not believe that any of us wanted Croatia to be punished for this law right now that we have to get sanctions. We were just calling for order, discipline, right, justice for what we all voted for together because no matter what we said part of our sovereignty in terms of some future steps that we will take will depend on the concessions because we all wanted to, we wanted a European Croatia. And that basic agreement on the transposition of some of our rights to introduce a directive on the introduction of common law still has in one dose enough that we will have to balance some of our interests a little with EU policies and attitudes, and that is normal. If we are a European country everyone has been through problems, everyone has been wrong in the first steps, someone is wrong today and we think that we do not need this politically as a new member and in the first days of the EU. What will happen to punishing criminals, the crimes involved today from this debate will not be better or happier to live in Croatia because we have become boring and boring ourselves because as soon as you turn on TV every day on the news "Lex Perkovic", will there be extradition, as Germany says, what is said in the Parliament, who has been outsmarted more, who has mentioned more Ustashas, who has partisans, who brushes etc., etc. and most people have no idea what this is about, they don't know what the real core of the European arrest warrant is and what our obligations we have signed as the full member of the EU that I repeat went the hardest way. And that's where we no matter what we vote on right now, and that's how it's gonna go, who's the compromise and the deal. And well thank God there are no sanctions, but new problems will be created in the future, financial issues will be created, some new legal issues will be created, funds will be created, there will be a question of that, and we will ask it ourselves, and not our European representatives in the European Parliament who have gone to work for 6.7,000 euros. They are representatives of the national interests of the Republic of Croatia, who according to our political worlds and attitudes belong to certain groups and groups of political leaders of European politics, and therefore we have become a member of the EU, not because we are back in the Croatian Parliament and we are going to dig and capture people of 90 years of age for what they have done or will not be and we are all together in the Assembly, is now a semi-empty assembly, thank you to all of you who have stayed because it really takes a great intellectual effort to understand the whole point of this story. And the conclusion is clear that we didn't need this and that if we want good for Croatia that we don't repeat this again, because you managed to repair the damage, we hope in favour of the interest of the Republic of Croatia. I followed every performance of you both in the Minister's journals and in the statements you've made, sometimes it seemed that it wasn't like that right now. It was all like that and it wasn't necessary. But here's no sanctions, deal reached. It is not clear to us today why it is the date of January 1st, but if I am in a good track some history notes it, if I did not apologize, it still had to step down from one side and on the other, and for the European Commission it was a problem and it was not a problem to talk about it so much and it would not have raised that much political dust on this and on the other hand that it was all so nice and okay. If we're going to be honest with each other in a normal peaceful debate without any tension, I wouldn't be mad at anyone if someone needed to talk about the past, live the past. But if I have to choose both our party and the Club of Representatives, we 7 want to live in the future and make sure that you and I do not make unnecessary mistakes, but we all want to make a contribution to what we do in the Croatian Parliament benefit our citizens and God forbid we start discussing laws that will affect the better lives of all those who live badly in Croatia today, that is our mission and our future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49842	Thank you, too. We have several replicas, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49843	Comrade Salapic, you said this last sentence, "We want to live in the future."we'd be a little bit first in the present, let's say laborists we'd live a little in the present, improve this present. And it's hard not to agree with you, you need to look into the future. This is the cream on the cake your peaceable speech that I like, means to relieve these tensions that, if I didn't realize them, I didn't realize that today's edge in the Parliament, that there were incorrect statements, that there were misleadings, there were political struggles in many parliaments and in Europe, especially from Europe, is far more difficult to fight and harder words fall and these are countries with far greater democracy than our country. So I think we had nothing to be ashamed of and nothing to be afraid of. Because the level of debate is mostly, I say mostly, not every time is at a high level in the Croatian Parliament. That is, the second question is whether or not we are discussing issues that we need to discuss. That's what this is about, yes, no one will, as you said in your debate, live better than, after our debate and not with the fact that, you said the minister was able to fix what was wrong. And God forbid it's so that when it comes to the table, when we adopt the law that no one has a single line of remarks anymore and that we take it off the agenda and then we start discussing here in the Parliament or in the thematic sessions on problems that really affect Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49844	Thank you. My colleague Salapic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49845	I tried to assess that the minister was able to repair the damage because he would not have acted so confidently and defended the position that he had agreed with the European Commission because otherwise he would have threatened to ask the opposition to be replaced and we do not want to, so that's where he assessed the position that it was a confident act that made sense. And as for the culture of discussing it all, so I think we've heard this three months, we're all talking to people outside the Parliament, and a lot of people are following this, that it's a lot of it, that in every debate we go back to the past and we're looking for where the culprit is and we're going back to UDBA and Partizana and Chetnika and then the assembly looks so half empty, a few people who stay, a few of them who repeat one and the same, not insulting any colleague's attitude, if someone wants to talk like that, but a false picture of it is being created. We had a problem here that we all tried to solve together. Tomorrow we will try to discuss constitutional changes and demand, and we should also look for our votes. All of us are worth one vote in the election and our position should be a position that should interest the government, if support is expected from all representatives clubs on some important national interests and issues. And the Constitution and constitutional changes are if you agree with your colleague Vuksic, one of these important national issues. If someone puts a solution to our table in principle take or leave it and make us a number and a letter, a voice number, a letter to support the law, then it's not good. So some issues need to be addressed for a better future in Croatia. That's why I wanted to be calm and wanted to be reconciled because I want good for Croatia, and so do you, I'm sure we all do. And sometimes some of them go too far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49846	Thank you. Jadranka Kosor, replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49847	My first confession of patience and courage was that at 9.30 p.m. you waited until here after 18 o'clock to speak at all on behalf of the HDSSB Club, and I thank you very much for that because I am also one of the promoters. It has been said that we all wanted a European Croatia and that it is good. Unfortunately, it's not like that. And in this assembly there are representatives of some political options that spoke yesterday and today and say that Croatia is not ready to join the European Union, that we have entered on our knees, that the war has not ended, that is those who talk about guests and domestics etc.. Therefore, why I mention it, it is important that we who sincerely wanted European Croatia mean Croatia in the European Union, which we have worked patiently and hard to overcome and many obstacles not to make mistakes. That's what matters because I think you also wanted to point out in your debate. So, we didn't all work equally, we didn't all want to, but we who did, we must at least try to, and now that we're a member of the European Union, we stay as much together as we do, and that will be then if we don't make mistakes, if we don't change the laws when we don't need to change them amongst others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49848	Thank you, we have your colleague Salapic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49849	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Kosor, we have discussed exactly the problems that await us when we become a full member of the European Union many times in this House and in Parliament. It's one thing to negotiate, something to sign, and the problem will be to spend it all together. So I think that someone mentioned it today and the sacrifice that you submitted to the head of the government when you led the Croatian government, your key national interest was the conclusion of the negotiations, Croatia's entry into the European Union, and by doing so you put some other positions on the side that we see today what the situation is. If everyone were honest and well-intentioned and everyone wanted good for Croatia, we would be much better off. When we stop dealing with politics behind the back, when every bush is looking for the culprit for some mistake and when the credits are not recognised for those who have done much for Croatia, when such people are being spit on, it is something that no one normal who sits here and deals with politics should do. And all of this is followed by the Croatian public and I am sure that some of the moves will be appreciated in the future. Nobody's worth it. None of us, I have said this a hundred times, has a work book in the Croatian Parliament because we are employed here, our books are in the hands of our voters and every assessment, every move, every decision will certainly be evaluated in the elections, and those who need to know that I am 100% convinced that they know very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49850	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49851	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Salapic, on the trail of your debate that we should look to the future, the future of this House is this agenda, and if you find me here one point that tells me about Croatia's better future and one point with which we will help the Croatian people to live better, I take off your hat. Both you and everyone here for the MPs. Look, fellow Salapic, today is 1st, the point of implementation of the state budget is foreseen as 27th point. So there is no way to discuss it before 15.10, and according to the Budget Act 15.10., it should already be the first draft budget for next year, and that the first draft budget for next year would be brought to me by at least what the Government has set out some day, it must be passed, adopted in this House at least 15, 20 laws... The second thing, fellow Salapic, at this point is the deficit of the state budget of 13 billion, when we discuss it it will be around 13.5-14 billion, and I say a new budget should be made. So that we can discuss the future, so that we can discuss what we're all talking about, but more than once, unfortunately, with a fig in our pocket, then whoever makes the laws should put it on this table so that we can discuss them and conflict our ideas and our views. Unfortunately, at this point that we are discussing today, we have opposed our views, although frankly speaking to everyone normal in this country is asking themselves the question of who it was meant to be and why it should have been. I think what I was saying, and it's true, the one who went, talked to investors well knows what this means. Because look, when someone sells money to you, he wants it as much as possible. It came to all these international players as a golden lever to raise our interest by 0.1,2,3,4, or 0.5, as long as it will already be and that's true and that's a fact that unfortunately we can't escape from. Now how many scars will come out of this battle I think it is irrelevant, but it is important that Croatian citizens will remain without new....
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49852	Thank you. Answer, comrade Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49853	I understand exactly what you're saying. I am first sure that all citizens tonight after all the news and journals have passed away from this topic, that tomorrow it will finally be behind us. And if something had to change, that's why I said it in my debate and repeated it several times. If we as an opposition that we want to be in some problems and to solve problems are constructively given our hand, and every time we get a slap, then it's wrong and then we take responsibility for nothing if nobody asks us anything. I mentioned constitutional changes that await us precisely because of this law. If no one asks us anything, and if they don't appreciate what we're about to say, we're not going to support it, either, no matter how much we agree that this subject and this one should already be an ad act. It was supposed to be, not now, for this case of these crimes, of all possible crimes. But if we're going to spread out of the Croatian Parliament, a home chosen by the Croatian government, this government has emerged from most of this House, as has been the case so far. If we talk about the past every day, we dig through the corpses, we look for comforters, we talk about something that doesn't bring a better life to anyone, we spread pessimism in Croatia to our citizens, and while they live hard, we lose dozens, 15, 20 hours in discussions about the past because we bring down the dignity of the political and importance of the Croatian Parliament because they only look at the most persistent and by emails when you get emails, you see who's watching it. ...the people are sick and tired of it. And why would we be responsible now if you wanted otherwise, I want to do otherwise, we want to discuss some things that someone listens to us, and I think it would be easier for the Prime Minister to talk about the government's annual report when the responsibility for some key issues is passed on to everyone. Well, here's the deal, you make your proposal, if that's good for Croatia, we're all responsible, and that's not there. So what we say is wrong, and what most people suggest is good. Until that changes we live in the past, and I said I wanted to live in the future. That's my point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49854	Thank you. And the last replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49855	Comrade Salapic, you said that Mr. Minister whom I welcome and appreciate is always present at the debates in the Parliament and here today in this long course of this debate, that the damage has been corrected, that is, what could have been caused that the consequences have been prevented and that everything will be fine. So on Friday, when this law is passed and the conditions are met, so by voting this new one, going back to the old one actually turns out to solve the problem. But why, then, constitutional changes? I must express my suspicion that once again there is little peace between that one current or the thought of some who have truly not as peaceful as you have imagined and that in constitutional changes that will be very soon on the agenda of this Parliament, at least they say, there are new complications and new ones, or it is agreed with Europe. That's what we're interested in, and whether or not a maneuver has been performed, and we can't tell from Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49856	Thank you. Answer, comrade Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49857	Since we're from the same club that I do answer my colleague. I think the issue of constitutional change, that's what I've been talking about, shouldn't and shouldn't depend on just the majority in the House, but on all of us. That's why it takes a 2/3 majority. And what I said, neither you nor I will be a number nor a letter and no one will count us as a chair but as a representative and a man with a certain attitude. All the questions we need to discuss will be easier for everyone. This should not be affected by Europe's constitution, but by ourselves. All representatives of the Croatian Parliament should be responsible for the responsibility of Croatia, regardless of which club we sat in, and you, sir, were a colleague from the club who was an observer in the European Parliament and you felt best how European policy works. So all of ours who went no matter what side they were supposed to involve national interests, protect together. If they really went as representatives of parliament from the Republic of Croatia not to repeat history as it was in Hungary, I don't know where our Croatian representatives were considered scholarships. We can't say that again. But what's behind all this. I said by observing the work of the Minister and the Ministry. With confidence in what has been done well so far and professionally so as not to be so confident, that something is wrong. That's what you are, and we wouldn't allow it. And I'm sure when I talked about the fact that the conversation was such that no party in this case is still carrying a burden on the first days of EU membership. But I believe that we will be as responsible clubs in the Parliament invited to consult on the Constitution. If it's not that responsibility, it's not on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49858	Thank you, too. Next is Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, an individual debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49859	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. Since the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty in the European Community, a common area of freedom, security and justice has come to life. So EU citizens could then move smoothly under the Schengen Treaty. Unfortunately, wherever he has rights, he has and abuses of rights and EU countries have faced a major problem that a country cannot be a haven or asylum for criminals who commit crimes either in its own country, so they go to foreign territory or act on other territory and return to their home country or some third country. So that is the meaning of this very law that we have adopted, which we are now changing this minor amendment, so the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States. That's basically how the fundamental law came into being. So in that spirit, we should also observe it. This does not mean that the Member States gave up their judiciary. Finally, as far as justice is concerned, at least we have an acquis, especially in terms of the structure of how the judiciary is structured in one country, while for other areas there, which were the basic prerogatives of national sovereignty, we can say that they were even. Many countries, therefore, are already signatories before us and are still jealous of their own citizens. Why? Not because they protect criminals, not because they trust their judiciary, but because they trust their neighbours more than they trust their neighbours who are also in the EU. Unfortunately, we do not have such confidence, unfortunately, but this does not stem from mistrust with our own judiciary. This comes first of all from our one false plant that the suspect or the victim was, possibly, the victim, the suspect or some presumptive defendant. That's our problem. But the point to avoid punishment, to run away from prosecution is nothing strange and new in these areas, so in the course of conversion and privatisation, many have secured themselves the citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, although they have never set foot in the country before, perhaps just to take out their passport. This was later shown in the 1990s to whom Croatia and in which way, who abused the Croatian government and gave the Croatian passport all in order to avoid, not any patriotism, not that there people were fascinated by people and nature, but for the simple reason to free themselves from criminal persecution and where they did it – in Croatia and to hide there. So we know all that. Now, when, because we learned from such behavior at home, we also had a prime minister who is now here we know where, not to repeat that thing. But which is precisely in relations that have been quite this European. For what? Because he was a humble vase to them, and a pompous vizier to the house. And of course everyone liked it. How much damage Croatia has suffered from this should not even be spoken. So, what the minister is opening up and like he's been saying all this time, but in this cacophony because we're trapped and some have already named this law, and even if you name the law, then everything else is meaningless, then there's nothing to talk about but agree with it. It's just that I have one supplement to contribute to that tour of yours if you think that law should only be observed through one name, and then you'll get more truth than you wanted. When the minister says it's normal, so it's not even about, it's now interpreted as one whim, anger, and finally the Prime Minister said originally I might be wrong, but I deeply believe there's room and it's kind of unfair. Well, we see other countries, and I'm not going to count them now. They're very powerful, so in some arguments like that, and I witnessed it, when we beat them with legal arguments, then the last argument you know is not how we talk. So there's that. And therefore, a small country can achieve its respect even when it represents, and even when it is wrong if it thinks it is, if it is fighting for its principles and ultimately if it is principled in all its politics, above all if it thinks it has a right and is not afraid to say it. And that's what other countries do, and that's what we're gonna learn. I know this is only the first thing and it's normal that it's caused these reactions. After several times, the public who is therefore a good part and on the trail and the media may also have a different safe approach to it. So if we are considering this law that some have already baptized him, in fact, which many so called by a certain name, then they are prisoners and will not come out, nor will they answer for a specific case, let alone what this law provides. So it should be said to the public that here is when even a double-punishment check is excluded, so even if in our country, even though we have all of this covered by our criminal legislation, it is not checked whether such a crime is in a particular country. And these are important works, and for us, that is, for many, they seem dazzling works but are not exaggerating works. And I'll tell you what it's all about, you all know that, but here's for the public. Belonging to criminal organization, terrorism, human trafficking, sexual exploitation of children, illicit trafficking, illicit trafficking in weapons, corruption, fraud, money laundering, counterfeiting of currency, computer crime, acts against the environment, allowing unauthorised entry and stay, murder, serious physical injury, illicit trafficking in human beings, kidnapping, racism and xenophobia, organised armed robbery, illicit trafficking in cultural goods, fraud, racketeering, extortion, counterfeiting, piracy of products, counterfeiting of trade in administrative documents. And with us, many IDs and documents are thought to be some sort of personal matter of a certain official who, when he leaves, must take it with him. Counterfeiting means of payment, illicit trafficking in hormonal substances, illicit trafficking in nuclear radioactive materials, trafficking in stolen vehicles, rape, arson, international criminal offences, illegal seizure of aircraft, water facilities, etc., sabotage. So you can imagine, if one law and its amendments could only be considered if we were to move away from some obsession with concrete cases. I had one obsession with another case that Croatia condemned a man, and our court convicted him of a crime committed in conversion and privatisation, sentenced to 4.5 years in prison, and hid in Germany. Two courts are looking for him on a powerful charge, and we don't mention it at all. Is that how little we keep to ourselves? Don't we trust our justice so little? And please, every one of us here, every one of us, we're not gonna talk about citizens, it can be because, of course, as long as it's not just an application, but also an indictment doesn't mean that a man is guilty because the state's attorney and law enforcement are not a court, the court will say his own, but someone can look for us. What would we say about any of these acts? We'd say, and we don't prefer to be tried by a domestic court. Then trust in the local justice system would suddenly increase. And believe me, every citizen of every country in the EU prefers to be tried by the local judiciary even if it is even stricter, and has had stricter penalties because it is normal. And the state, I'm telling you, is how other countries behave, so when we look at how many people we're looking for in our arrest warrant, how many arrest warrants we've filed, how far it's been done, and how much we've already acted on the arrest warrant, what we've done is above the European average. And the stronger and stronger the country gives and pleases other members. You'll see exactly that. And so please don't if we attack the government, don't attack the local judiciary. It's only now that after years of release, since the '90s we know, so since 2000 it's been gradually stabilizing. And it takes a lot, a lot of years to stabilize it. And whoever gets in trouble in front of a criminal court likes to be tried by an independent court, and by his rights and duties in his property, by fundamental human rights, not by his street. And let's not disturb him like that. And I think with everything that's been going on in the public eye, we've given him the biggest hand in the country's domestic justice system. Maybe that's what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49860	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49861	Here, here's another sentence. And unconsciously and what my colleague Pupovac said all the countries outside were that the right hand, the left hand of the house debated very loudly. No one's discussing it outside, it's considered rude. That's why denunciating your country out there is not a question of this Lex, but of home education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49862	Thank you. We have two replicas. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49863	Thank you very much. My colleagues, you have indeed tried very hard to explain our faith in our judiciary and the desire to trust our judiciary, so you have set some examples. In fact, you know for a fact that we have also established in the Constitution that there is no statute of crime in conversion and privatisation, and you have even cited one case that has been tried for 4.5 years, you have said that there is an impediment to prison, right? So I'd like to ask you if you have another example besides one for this particular piece? Is that exactly why we had to put the Constitution on, or could it have been legally resolved without changing the Constitution? Just like we can handle this without changing the Constitution. And what you said about us judging the people of the perpetrators of these serious crimes, so let's say we know what Mr. Djurekovic's execution was like, was he killed with an axe in the garage. It's from the German newspaper you can easily find out. But you said it was an ideological omen of the victim. So I would ask you if you knew what was Mr. Djurekovic's ideological omen? And father and son? And not only Stephen but his son Damir? Furthermore, what was the omen of Bruno Busic other than Croatian? No communist, no capitalist, what ideological omen was that? What are we talking about? But it doesn't matter what omens or murderers are, it matters that justice is available. That's what matters.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49864	We have your colleague Anticevic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49865	So I'm going to tell you this another thing that we agree exactly that justice is available, but I agree with all those murders that were committed under the state or its one segment are the worst crimes. These are the worst crimes, but let's not fool ourselves that they only happened during Yugoslavia. They also happened in our recent Croatian past, which was spoken of by Pupovac, and this should be strongly condemned. Watch out for terrorism is terrible, and national terrorism simply cannot escape from it as some people have not escaped. That's one thing. And the other thing, as far as non-depreciation for economic crime is concerned, this is a criminal offence or this verdict is here when it's said that nothing has happened even before 2000 should be open. In 1999, it was not until after these other charges were convicted. But what is being tried today would not be possible without a change of constitution, and what will be tried safely.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49866	Thank you. Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49867	Thank you very much, Vice President. I answered because I knew that my colleague Ingrid wouldn't be able to tell us everything, so just to repeat the material. You said this was a domestic issue, and we've heard moral panic today, so we're discussing this law. These were debates on behalf of your club, if I recall correctly, meaning moral panic and the story of the Croatian judiciary is home education. And by collecting those two things, I'm just wondering what we're even talking about. Then are we unbred here? Are we really in some big panic that we would normally express our opinion of something that we think is still important for our country for some people? And then you found us to explain our trust in the Croatian judiciary in the conversion and privatisation and non-depreciation of the same, and it stands in the Constitution, here's a single procedure from my colleague Grubisic. Recently I look at the paper of 250 biggest shareholders who have let's say 250 or more companies with whom... and all the time all the media focus, policies focused on HDZ. You're reading names I didn't recognize one or two men who were tied up or were even close to HDZ. It's the only truth. A single process in conversion and privatisation was a serious crime, with some becoming presidents. And now again a major announcement of constitutional change, changes, and I guess now we'll bring everyone in, we'll bring everyone in because that's what constitutional changes are important to you. What's gonna happen? Nothing will happen, nothing, nothing like this prime minister said zero points.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49868	Thank you. Answer from my colleague Antičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49869	I can't say you didn't listen to me, but you didn't pay attention. When I was talking at the end about home education, it was on the trail of what your colleague Tudjman said about the Americans, never one government is invited to do what the other government did, so I wanted to tell you that in Europe the left and right or centre of each other at home are explaining, arguing, arguing, calling it whatever you want but you saw out there in diplomatic relations when you talk to someone and you know which group you belong to will never be gossiped about by an opponent of your political one, never because that's what you would think and it's so pathetic to hear. We need to learn about such things precisely because we are part of Europe and so they act that way and we have to act. We'll discuss it at home. I'm telling you, it's really a domestic issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49870	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49871	Thank you again, Vice President. Well, I'm not a lawyer, but I think I understand something in justice. I think my faith is enough that I'm not even in a moral panic so I can discuss this. I think we should discuss this even though it may be sadder in this hour, perhaps even sadder that it is our cathedral of the spirit, just before I was down there, and it's also transferring some sort of detachment show, so obviously this really doesn't interest anyone anymore. After a great deal of interest for three months. I used to be told by older people that politics is what we can't see, not what we hear, not what we write, not what we're saying, but what we can't see. And now on this very example of the law, it's very good and best obvious. And the fact is that the graphite that was written a long time ago, and there's still somewhere to be found "The marriage is our destiny" is always current and always someone reaches out for it. That's why I decided to argue because I don't really know how to assess a government that finds the democratic interest of the people in the defence of individuals or more of them who have committed one or perhaps more crimes in the area of this or another state. How do you evaluate those who are ready to show their middle finger to all EU countries on the eve of EU entry by pretending that they do not understand or understand anything much more than everyone else? How to even evaluate that middle finger, how to explain it, we've seen it in the past three months. I'll just make a few statements just so they don't forget. I already told the government today, but one more time, it's a technical harmonisation, we've actually made a technical adjustment, and now we have a law that's fully adapted to the EU. That's what the minister said. On 18 June, the government submitted a proposal to amend the Law on Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters with EU Member States to the Assembly without any hidden intentions. At the session of Parliament on 26th, late afternoon, he remembers and remembers us even less than today, says the minister at the end of the final address, consulted no one, you have a proposal and there is another small dilemma left to clear up, and that is that, you remember that statement. The 20th of June of the evening when this little thing started to fall apart here are the Croatian defenders. We want to protect Croatian defenders from possible persecution. 27th June Angela Merkel knows nothing about Perkovic. We protect sovereignty and once again Croatian defenders on June 28th, but then the prime minister says there are possible misunderstandings. Then came this holiday in Parliament and 23. 8th in the summer of the prime minister's statement. "What I can tell you is that none of the prime ministers of European countries are interested in this topic or know anything about it and Mrs Reding speaks as HDZ." Six. Nine. "We believe that we are not in any serious offense, we can talk about certain inconsistencies." Ten. Nine. "I am the guardian of Croatian reputation and not the European Commission, I am not such a man that I react to every threat and attempt to bluff. 17. 9. perhaps the strongest statement, "We are a country, a member of the European Union, not a bird reserve. There are ways of communication and those who are loud usually like to manipulate, have weak arguments. We won't, we believe in the Croatian judiciary and they'll do their job, but I won't let us wipe the floor, we're not a bird reserve, we're a state. No sanctions, zero, choose who you'll trust with a democratically elected authority or someone chasing after seven. mandate." And then 26. 9. capitulated the government "This is just one lesson we paid a little. This experience has made me rich, I have changed my mind with European leaders on the functioning of the arrest warrant and we need to get used to it, get our heads up and have a little self-respect.". These are such chronological statements, some ministers, some prime ministers, mostly more prime ministers than ministers, and that's a picture of things moving. How this map tower was carefully built and how it collapsed with 26. 9. It's the only fact that's true. Why don't you trust the leading people of this country, Prime Minister? To me, for me, this is blubbering, hypocrisy, untruth, attempts and deception. Perhaps the simplest word that could be used there is shame. A shame that will still be difficult to track or redeem for a long, long time. Because what to say about this policy where instead of a simple solution, a move... As was done in the other 10 arrest warrants, the authorities refer to the lex perkovic story. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In... It's an entire judicial apparatus, the DORH reaches out to the parliamentary commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Constitution conflicts with the European Union, coalition partners, professional public, intellectuals and ultimately with its own people. For what? That's what we've been trying to do for three, four months. Three months and more. For what? To protect possible perpetrators of crime? Or the ones who did it? What's this country's interest? Because if they're not what the minister said, what did the prime minister say to them and we see that they didn't because we almost got sanctions, so what's that interest? It is clear to me that it is difficult to accept or submit to the fact that your biological or ideological ancestor may be a member of a totalitarian system such as communism. That some in that system, many, have committed a crime. Some individual, some mass. But you can't get away from it. And that's why I asked for answers to some questions today, but I didn't get them. He says, there's no statute of limitations, so there's no statute of limitations, I was talking about the naked island case, ask the people who get there 23. 8 every year comes at least 20, 30. Is 70 years of crime over them, over those who have never been found? Ask them, their families. It can be legal, this formal, great because it's the interest of the state. Better yet, even more embarrassing. Is that worth it? I don't think so. Obviously, someone found a particular reason in that. I think we missed it completely. And this story with constitutional changes, with blackmails, I remember a lot of these constitutional changes already. I don't remember a single prime minister entering constitutional blackmail changes. Either you're in or you're in. Great. So we heard today what that means. Even we here can twist some kind of prosecution because we protect criminals and they don't protect them. So now we've heard conversion and privatisation. One single procedure, great, how many of them will be here, nothing, nothing. If that is the way to bring about these constitutional changes, let them be brought. And that's why I'm glad HDZ came out, said his opinion and went out for discussion. Went out for a vote. Perhaps it would be wise to fix what you've ruined and fix it yourself. Even though we warned you. But when you ask the minister so he won't tell you anything, he says he's not a fortune teller, etc., it's clear to everyone, only to those who don't want to understand that this was one right to all the democratic institutions of society and to reject all the moral scruples and rules of play that apply in the Western world. They say it's smart enough. And I'm going to conclude this in the end with one statement of the thought of the famous Polish humarist and philosopher Stanislava Jirzi Lec who said, "I was already thinking that I had reached the very bottom when I heard knocking on the other side.". I think we're in this situation right now. I think they'll knock on the other side one more time and I guess we'll discuss it one more time, then I guess we'll change the constitutions, and then I guess we'll do everything we can to protect the people who might have received the arrest warrant for, I don't know, if they're good works in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. For me, it's a crime, and there's only normal politics that's a simple pen move. There's not a lot of philosophy, like some...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49872	Thank you very much. Time. We have one replica. Comrade Craiger, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49873	I don't think that we should correct others in such debates, but a colleague of Boric would point to at least looking at Google or Wikipedia, which means moral panic. Moral panic is a concept that appeared in the 1960s, Thompson is the author of this term that shows that in society from time to time movements appear in which entirely irrelevant things are given the impression of danger, declares the general threat of society, strengthen emotions, and where there is no rational debate. It's a term called moral panic. It is a situation in which, in fact, the media accept the topic, for their reasons, disperse it. Political groups, parties in this case use it as their own way of arguing. But what's important is the fact that after a while, such currents, such phenomena and movements stop and then you can see how much that argument, the emotions that have been put in, how unnecessary they really are, even harmful. True, the audience, the citizens in this case got an interesting topic, newspaper headlines. But what we're discussing, and that's why I used the term moral panic, it's not such fears that are spread, it's not killers and murderers, it's not partisans and Ustashas, it's a very short law that changes after the agreement between the Croatian Government and the European Commission that we adopted here exactly at the time you said. Anything you have declared to be a sin, a lie and a hypocrisis could also be considered a necessary political stance in which Croatia is defended in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49874	Thank you. We have an answer, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49875	I've heard that expression from you, I've used it in my context, he doesn't have to answer what you said, but it's interesting and I don't know if that moral panic is on this side or on that side. That could be discussed if we're going to do it individually. Because neither HDZ imposed this topic nor insisted on it, it came silently. For 39 seconds, the minister explained to the government, here for a few minutes today, just a few minutes. If it hadn't been for that moral panic, the question is, where would we be today, would we have been ahead of the changes? And that we are such a law as the one that adopted 24.5. knowing that Germany has not yet ratified the accession treaty, for which this government did not have the strength even though it had everything prepared because 80 articles cannot be changed in seven days or invented in seven days. So that's what we're talking about today in a completely different context, and that's the only truth, and that's what we have to tell these people to do to get the truth out of them. Not... philosophizing, but true and admitting a mistake. We hear that there were parts of regret here, but so quietly, that all the winners in this story, that no one even embarrassed themselves, that it was all normal, and there was a great public interest because she didn't care. I think she cares, and that's why I said that this slogan "Udba is our destiny" is something that will follow us for more generations if it doesn't clear up and that's why she's the lady, I've already said it today, I've done a lot, no matter what you think and what you say about her. A lot for Croatian democracy. Those who can think a little deeper I think they know what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49876	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Vice President Nenad Stazic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49877	Thank you very much. So this law caused a storm in a glass of water. It is a completely irrelevant, marginal one thing that has caused one general attention in the media and in the public. Who encouraged that attention? The opposition and the media. The media's reasons are clear to me, they're filled with headlines with attractive headlines and they're selling newspapers. That reason is understandable, understandable. Which, however, is the reason for the opposition to attack its own country, to gossip about it outside, to call on sanctions for its own country, which I find unclear. Such behaviour by the opposition, so that the worst, I cannot understand. We are a member of the European Union and we need to get used to this, an equal member of the European Union, and we have the right, as any other member of the European Union, to defend our national interests, so let's not expect that the European Commission will protect our national interests. Well, first of all, we're the government, but the opposition is also here to defend and protect national interests, not to bow its head, cover itself with ears on its head, and pray that it gets sanctions, like HDZ did. So this is a matter of national pride. We want you to, Comrade Shuker, you're just showing how much you've been raised when you throw it like this. It won't bother me or stop me from telling you the truth. ... We want our people, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, if they have committed any crime, to be tried here in Croatia, not to be extradited. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is the government's motive, not to be tried by other countries under some general general jurisdiction, not by the government's protection of national interest. Instead of helping that government, you're attacking her, but completely incomprehensible. We don't want to repeat the Purd case, we want our judiciary to do it because if Purdu had done our justice in time and freed him of any suspicion that he committed any crime, a man wouldn't have ended up in a Bosnian prison. But we didn't do it, we missed it, and it was a shame, it was a shame for one of the defenders. The government wants to protect national interest, preserve national pride, does not want to bow its head against any request coming from the European Commission because we do not have to do this. Well, we're even there, we realize we're even. We fight together for these national interests. Sanctions. You say they threatened sanctions and are still threatening. That's what you said in the debate today. So the government controls this situation from beginning to end. It's a completely controlled situation. And now be careful that the sanctions really came into consideration, that they were threatened. So what's the problem with passing the law and agreeing to the law? Well, there's always no sanctions. That we stayed on this, even if there wasn't a deal between the minister and that Vivian Reding. What? That the decision remains valid, that the law applies from 15 July. So if there were any sanctions imposed on July 15th, they would have stopped. There wouldn't be any damage here either. And about any harm to speak of today forgive her but foolishly, foolishly, for there is no harm done. If it's a shame for you to defend national pride and national interest, that's already your problem. No one has any interest in protecting any criminal regardless of which category of society he belongs to, whether he's married or not. No one has that reason. Why would he have such a reason? So that's why we're proposing to change the Constitution so that they can be punished. Well, we have no other reason than to propose to change the constitution that you don't accept again, because you don't want to be punished, I guess. But we're suggesting something else. We propose an investigative committee on this, so that we can see who was working with the rescuers, with whom the refugees, who invited them to the Croatian government, how they cooperated, and we'll find out on this committee as we discovered in the INA commission what your boss Sanader was doing, as we did in the truck committee how you were getting military equipment, so here we'll find out who was protecting the comforters. You won't be comfortable listening, you won't be comfortable listening. Now, Vivian Reding. It was except for a joint conference with the minister, except that both said the agreement had been reached and what agreement had been reached said something else. The European Commission will never give up Cyrillic in Vukovar and give us a shower. Sound slap. What are you going to do now with Vivian Reding that you've praised so much? And the European Commission won't give it up, it won't give up. So what's the werewolf HDZ doing now? What are you doing with it? Here they are the day before yesterday, suggesting that Mrs. Kosor be lifted from her status as an honorary citizen of Vukovar. They suggested her to be an honorary citizen. Well, wonderful consistency! Mrs. Kosor, I think you did something wrong when these people suggested that you accept it from these people. You should have known what they were like and what might happen to you with that proposal. Too bad, Croatia's reputation has been violated. Now I'm looking at the Journal of both of these national televisions that have been shown so far. Sanader's giving his defense the other day, your boss. That's where you jumped the chairs, clapped, worked the hilarious after every word he said, supported him in everything and everything, gave him defense. I'm ashamed to see that the prime minister of my country, my country's former prime minister, is being tried for theft. I'm ashamed to look at it. It's destroying the state's reputation. You know how he defends himself? He blamed Jarnjak, another HDZ, and others admitted guilty in the process. They said yes, we stole, we stole, we stole for HDZ. It shames the state, it shames the nation, it is the destruction of the country's reputation, not the defence of the European Commission, not the firm stand in judging our people here in Croatia, not the determination to investigate co-operation with the refugees and the determination to punish all the grave criminals regardless of the crime they committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49878	Replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49879	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament was very convincing in his debate, such a theatre call it the unrepeated ease of life. Really, when we banalize everything like that, it's simple. What were we fighting about here? That's the question. Earth's reputation protected, we're all happy, everything's beautiful, flowering flowers. He's really asking himself a question, then a little bit about HDZ, then a commission on this, commission. Which was discovered by the Committee on Victor Lenac. That gentleman comes in and says I don't remember anything, he comes out. It's done, nothing. What kind of commission was that? Nothing, zero points. But let's forget it. You know why? Why did SDP forget that? Because he hasn't been in any important business for 20 years for this country. During their independence, HDZ led the country to war, in a peaceful reintegration of HDZ, in the reconstruction of HDZ. Well, then we have that episode in 2003. Nothing important happened at that time. I think we signed the document, I don't know, for stabilizing and joining. That's it. After that, the negotiations were over again, joined NATO, again the HDZ. Ended negotiations for the EU. It's hard to bear that one big party that is crawling with intellectuals can handle one such twenty-year-old let's say failure. And then we're looking at some individual again wrong. Well, he didn't avoid the judicial process, he's here. But they're trying to avoid it. Do you see what you're doing? They're trying to avoid it, and you say it's the state's interest, let's put it all together. And commission if you need the Constitution and the law. So he doesn't come where he needs to be. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49880	Thank you very much. Replication response, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49881	Ha, I'll try to answer what I understand from this replica of yours, I must admit I didn't understand everything. Viktor Lenac, the commission, the Parliamentary Research Commission was led by then-reputable HDZ member Sanader called it the HDZ pillar of this sort of Branimir Glavas. Branimir Glavas led the investigation committee for Lenac. It also contributed to the reputation of both HDZ and its own. What did the commission conclude? That commission sent all the documents obtained to the DORH. Did DORH file any charges, did he initiate any proceedings? Well, because DORH concluded there was no crime there. Because it was one of your noises of the constant, because when you don't have the arguments, then you're yelling. Just like you're yelling at one completely irrelevant thing to be a problem. So that's how Victor Lenac was your problem, and those real problems, those real illegalities that you've been doing for 8 years now in your last term, you see that was a little different to the court and a little different treatment with the DORH than your Viktor Lenac had. We want this man, we want him tried not to be extradited to Germany. If he deserves to be tried, that's where we judge him. So, man, why, what's your national interest in sending our citizens to Germany to judge us? So why don't we have the courts, don't we have the judiciary? So I believe in our judiciary and I want to believe in our judiciary. You don't believe it, you trust German justice anymore. And listen, you're such a patriot, you're such a patriot that you trust German justice more than Croatian. And my God, your thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49882	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49883	Thank you very much. My colleague Stazić, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, indeed in your theatre usual performance, you have reversed the whole thesis. You said that the opposition or opposition party one, I don't know if you said the opposition correctly or if the HDZ didn't hear it well, that it sought sanctions for Croatia. So who even thought about any sanctions for Croatia before 28 June when you, your majority, your government changed this law which is now so that I don't say quietly or this is how you try to change and bring it back to its original state? So you've caused this whole crisis. And you say media pumps. Well, we know whose media it is, it's not just HDZ. What do the other media say? Three months of people buzzing and citizens around this lex, I won't speak the name doesn't matter, and then you say, you're talking about national pride and our justice. It's a national pride to protect those who committed serious murders. Why are they so bored, you and your mandate from 2000 to 2004 then why didn't you judge them? You were in power. And when you talk about Mrs. Reding saying that about the Cyrillic what she said, well, HDZ won't, he's in Vukovar in the city council voting for Cyrillic as well as Mrs. Reding. Because they're going to talk about Mrs. Reding. But she didn't say that's what she said, so it's good that you did it, and she didn't say and ordered us to act like a state. Why now the SDP as it was in the City Council of Vukovar against the introduction of the Cyrillic is not against Mrs. Reding and has not said anything to the minister or anyone. In the city council, the SDP was against Cyrillic in 2010. And now you're bringing in the Cyrillic. Why didn't you tell Mrs. Reding our City Council in Vukovar and our members voted against it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49884	Thank you. Replication response, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49885	So we're proposing to change the Constitution so we can punish ourselves, and you're saying that we're protecting them and you're still saying that I turned the thing upside down. So listen, this doesn't make any sense what you're saying. The sanctions, the joy of sanctions. I didn't hear you say it, I didn't hear you say it, but I heard it from the HDZ, and I heard it a lot. They clapped, as they used to clap on Sanader so they clapped Vivian Reding as well as threatening Croatia's sanctions. They were looking forward to it. What I can do is I'm not glad they're looking forward to it, but they are. That's what we all saw. They were recorded by a camera. They made such statements. Cyrillic in Vukovar, look if we have constitutional law I would like the Constitutional Law to be implemented throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia as well as any law. The last one who did not want Croatian laws to be implemented in Vukovar was Goran Hadzic, he did not want to. Now that's not gonna be HDZ werewolf either.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49886	Tomislav Klaric, replica. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49887	Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49888	Wait till you get the word. Ivan Shuker, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49889	This is the home education you're talking about, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49890	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49891	Shame on you! Madam Vice President, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, all of his articles, because if I may say so, the vice president of the Croatian Parliament has compared the party headed by this country in the Homeland War with the war criminal who killed the Croats in Vukovar. I think it's scandalous and I think that Mr. Stazic, except for the nice haircut, you should've gone through some other... before this debate, so this kind of stupidity would never have been said in your life.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49892	No injured Rules of Procedure. You didn't say, not all the articles of the Rules of Procedure can be hurt, but in today's debate we heard that one party is protecting murderers and killers, etc. Here you go, buddy Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49893	Dear vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today I really didn't mean to argue on this subject, but Mr. Stazic, listening to today all day about the fatters about '41, '49, I don't know which criminals and murderers I expected, and I waited to hear the minister when he wasn't already Prime Minister here, that he would say in his short speech a single sentence, yes, we people were wrong, we shouldn't have changed this law a few days after Germany signed the pre-accession contract, it's our fault, we're pulling him off with a new proposal. That's what we expected here, and I'm sure the Croatian public was expecting. To identify a law like this with the name of a man, to speak of the credibility of a country a few days after signing an agreement, I think it's all said. Well, the fact that today's session of Parliament's agenda is this point and what's going to be like this law says everything. The government has made a failure, those who have passed such a law have made a mistake, and let's move on and remove this move of Croatian state's unbelief towards the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49894	The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49895	You see, I'd like the government to admit a mistake if it made a mistake, but the government did not make a mistake here. The government has entered a relationship with the European Commission in which it wanted the best for Croatia, to protect the best of Croatian interests. Viviane Reding stood up to it. The government negotiated and negotiated what it could negotiate, still more favourable than what you are looking for, still more favourable for Croatia because it delayed and for at least some time to allow the Croatian judiciary to examine things. That's the time it takes. I don't know how you guys don't understand such simple things. You say you called the law one man at a time. So we didn't call him, you called him after one man and then you handed it over to us and you handed it over to the government. Strange man.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49896	And Josip Djakic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49897	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Stazic would really believe you in some of your claims that you have crediblely said that you want to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. But it's not like that for you. I remember your debate when you discussed the law on the integrity of certain legal acts of the former JNA, the former SFRY and the Republic of Serbia. Clearly, you and your club voted against it. You were against it, today you are putting Croatian defenders in the context of protection by this act, which is absolutely against yours. Since '11, when the debate lasted, you have not protected Croatian defenders or national interests in any way. From then on, a sudden change in rhetoric has now seen you protecting national interests. You didn't mention Marić, who has been lying in Serbia for 12 years today, he's been convicted for 12 years, you haven't stopped at his protection, you haven't stopped at a hearing in Purdin, I haven't heard you. Today, when you compare HDZ with war criminal Hadzic, who is clearly arrested and transferred to The Hague by his Serbian authorities. Who is attacking national interests, who is attacking the party that created the Croatian state rather than you. You are the ones who, because of one... you want to put the Stigma on HDZ, the Stigm on Croatian defenders, the Stigm on all others just not on their party comrades. This is unnecessary today, this everything we say has no purpose or purpose, just to protect the public of Perkovic, and behind Perkovic another 23 individuals who have committed a crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49898	Thank you. The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49899	Look, the integrity of acts, therefore, of the law on the integrity of acts of the Republic of Serbia, is so powerful a law that it also helped Maric, he succeeded. You suggested one stupid thing. So how can you, by some law of the Republic of Croatia, undo someone else's law? Well, you can't do that. It's completely pointless. This is if you let me, if you're going to make a noise and I can stop it, and what the government tried this is a real attempt, this is a real wish for our people to be tried here if they're guilty. And you, you would extradite our citizens. So extradite, and you'll have to come to power to deliver our people, you will, to Germany, to Serbia, to whom you will. And as for Hadzic, he really didn't want the law of the Republic of Croatia to be implemented in Vukovar, so he fought against those laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49900	We continue the debate of colleagues Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49901	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will strive like a replica, says the government protects Croatia's national interest by amending the law on 28 June. if the Government protects this law lex Zagor has an axe, and if the Government is voted by the will of the Parliament's majority 28.6. to protect Croatian national interest then I wonder why there was no more tenacity for this Croatian national interest to remain fully, not to be broken by Europe and not to break our national interest, our dignity and our credibility when it was such a good law that we voted on, which you voted on on June 28th. It protected the Croatian national interest. Protected those who killed people both in Croatia and immigration with axes, sledgehammers and others. Do you want me to read to you the names of these people from those known to those who are far less known? Would you like me to read you the names of the victims? And the names of those who have disappeared, which are who knows what river Europe, America or Canada, Australia has thrown away those people who are of Croatian national interest, so they say here on this left. And it is trying to make a new farce, it was in negotiations and talks, as the minister and Mrs Vivian Reding said, and it is agreed to do so at the latest, at least until 1 January 2014. And here we are already this week the Croatian Parliament has been discussing it all day. But I have to say, we got here on the benches and therefore notices of constitutional changes that follow. I have already said in the replica of my colleague Salapic whether it will be a new farce agreed or not with Mrs Reding and the European Commission, I do not know, we will see when constitutional changes are adopted. Mr Boric precisely counted the statements that I have been saying for three months by the President of the Government, in which there were even very offensive tones towards Mrs Reding Commissioner in order to say to the Commissioners of the European Commission for Justice and Vice-Presidents of the European Commission, and there were statements that would have been so farciative in which they were not to say bombs dropped like this that we would remain in our position, how we are firm, etc., and to defend our national interests. Is the national interest then signed, though not the government has signed with Serbia and other Western Balkan states as the English call us, has not signed an agreement on judicial proceedings. So then the Belgrade Military Court has about two thousand Croatian defenders' names and the Banja Luka Military Court has about five hundred names. The war court in Banja Luka has 500 names on the list of our defense attorneys. There are people on the Slavon ship who can't make it to the Bosnian ship because they're on that list. That's what she did before the government, signed the former justice minister. So, I'm not proud of either one or this other. Because if a mistake was made out of ignorance says the translation was to blame so it didn't make sense, let me explain. There's a legal formulation that says ignorance doesn't justify it. That's what the minister knows best. He's a lawyer. So if it's done on purpose it's even worse. In order to be clear and loud, there is nothing else to think about protected by someone, one person, or all those in a chain in front or behind that person. Or in order to avoid many more large fish in the structure, I must say now here is UDBA, UDBA is our destiny as Boric said were and today take high positions in Croatian politics. And they were taken before they were 91. A gentleman who has already been quoted here by Djakic named Željko Kekic or by the name of Spider, a former Yugoslav spy sincerely admits in one newspaper. My colleagues are still shaking Croatia today. They volunteered to work as co-workers of political parties. Today, they are acting on the duties of the mayors of the municipalities, city councilmen, and all the way to the MPs in the Parliament. And the director of public companies. They are still shaking the system today because they are compared to ordinary politicians who come from the people in a privileged position because of the information they read. Somebody say it's a yellow print, somebody say it's some kind of ham, but given the situations that have been going on in this country, given everything we've had a chance to track and who's keeping a close eye on and I wouldn't say it's not, if there wasn't at least a shred of truth, and there is, it's for sure. And then today when we discuss this who discussed everything and how we discussed it then we can actually see what we are on and that in those years after the war that the idea of the late president was a comprehensive unification of Croats of all options, ideology towards independence and independence of Croatia, and that because of that and because of the war and later it wasn't done as someone says, said my colleague Salapic purification or as he said so, here we have purgatory, so, purgatory we have what we have. Now it's not clear to me, I know that someone loves friends, my friend Drmic and I personally love our friend Branimir Glavas whatever Stazic thinks and says, is our friend and we will do everything for him. That's what the law in question, lex, this one now, has the same friends. He has friends and highly positioned since he was also in the government of President Tudjman and Mesic etc.. We need to speak out loud and clear here what's going on. Therefore, having strong and friendly relationships, my God and all things are clear. This law will be amended as it was said, agreed, whether it was a shame or not in three months to change the law by the dictatorship of Europe, the dictatorship clearly, threatened by sanctions, it is quite clear. And it's not true that we stayed on this until July 15, 2014 to get our sanctions off then, Schengen and... they wouldn't have lifted our sanctions because we deserved them. Well, it's not like Europe can pull itself together. If you sign it and respect it, if you don't respect the term in which it's signed, then you'll have sanctions. But if the sanctions were withdrawn on July 15th or July 1st, we're late with Schengen, we're getting monitoring, are we even aware of what that means? We agree on a lower level because today we are worse than Bulgaria and Romania because they are longer members of the European Union than we are. That is why we will clearly be because we were not the first time for this law that is still in force for a day or two, we will be in favour of the law, but we are afraid that the constitutional changes that follow will lead to such formulations that we will be proud that the Croatian court may then judge Perkovic, and twice cannot be tried for the same work in the Croatian and German courts. That's right, gentlemen, it's a possible scenario, possibly. I don't say what's gonna happen, I can't, but they were alive and saw. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49902	Replica, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49903	My colleague Grubisic said a lot of things about how he was willing to do anything for one war criminal and more, but I will concentrate on the part where he spoke about the terrible crimes committed on behalf of a former state and where the national interest of the Republic of Croatia is with those criminals. So our interest is not to protect these criminals, the perpetrator of these terrible crimes. The interest of the Republic of Croatia is exactly the opposite, that the perpetrators of these crimes will be punished, whether or not they have committed them outside the Republic of Croatia, e.g. in Germany, for this reason Germany has committed criminal proceedings against them or committed them in the form of '60s. and some here in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, no other state has launched their punishment, and neither can we, because it's out of date. It is our interest that all those without the name and last name in the debate, rather than all those who have committed such crimes, be brought before the court, and if their guilt in legal proceedings before the Croatian judiciary is found to be also convicted. That's our interest. It's easy to hide behind a European arrest warrant, it's easy to leave it to another country to fight your battles. No, we have a responsibility to our country to have all these criminals sanctioned here, and it seems to me that a good part of this assembly that is here in this late hour is empty, afraid that such procedures are being conducted in the Republic of Croatia and that it would be the easiest thing to do is to move it under the carpet or if the carpet for it is too small to send it to Germany or anywhere else. So your colleague can't agree with your thesis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49904	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49905	My fellow coat of arms, I haven't been able to agree with your thesis for a long time either, so I don't understand when you're already saying what you just said, why did you change the law on June 28 if it was your intention to judge those who committed such terrible crimes. And in the end, Germany didn't condemn anyone, she's just looking for a gentleman she wants to question and determine the facts. There's no predetermined verdict. Therefore, I don't know why so many three months and the media and the citizens and everyone else and we're all going to be stuck here with that kind of stuff, just because you voted 28.6. Nothing else. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49906	Col. Ante Babic is not present, so he loses the right to debate on this point. In conclusion, on behalf of the promoter, colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49907	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary with a colleague, the other MPs and MPs. My colleagues and colleagues, thank you very much. I speak as one of the motions for amending and supplementing the law. I just have to mention one technical or technical remark that I don't think is negligible. So far, it has always been common for the Government to submit a written report on the proposals of the law of the parliamentary benches, i.e. its written opinion taken at the cabinet's session, so that by the end of the debate, it is already too late to conclude, but certainly until the vote, this written opinion of the Government on our amendment and the addition of the Law on judicial cooperation is expected. Mr. Minister, I continue to suggest that the time and moment, the day on which the law will enter into force, be immediately or eight days after we vote or publish in the National Journal. Our proposal is to make this right after the publication in the National Journal because three months means nothing special. In those three months, and I am sure of that, and I am really saying this here, in those three months until these amendments to the law come into force, we will continue on different occasions and in this assembly in many other debates when it will have nothing to do with judicial co-operation, with EU countries. This is to be potentiald as one of the topics that we will meet again, and since there is obviously no reason why the law does not enter into force immediately, I suggest that you change your decision until the vote. There's something else I'd just like to mention about, there's been a word here about the law of nothingness. Of course it has nothing to do with this law. However, what is the main idea of this law, and it remains, is that the Republic of Croatia said by that law that the neighbouring state, the Republic of Serbia cannot extend its jurisdiction to the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And I think that law is very much in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In the end, there was a lot of words about whether we lost anything, if we learned anything. I'm not sure we learned anything in particular, and if we did, we paid a certain price. And here's what I'd like to mention in the end is an interesting thought of Prime Minister Milanovic who said the other day, and the more I think about her, the more I think about her, the more I think she's right about what's going on and who's laughing at the end. He said who laughs last at all is not laughing at all. And there's something, colleagues and colleagues, in that mind. However, that subject will continue to return, and even when the law comes into force, it will return. I don't think this proposal that we've been fighting so much was necessary. And as for the commission that has long been announced, and here is the Prime Minister's announcement in his report, I'm not sure there's gonna be a commission, because everything needs a teaming. When a certain moment passes, when that moment passes, it no longer makes much sense. So once again, my co-workers and colleagues, I suggest you vote for, of course, our proposal to amend and supplement this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49908	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Justice Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49909	Thank you very much. Here's me thanking everyone who's here. So, from this debate, maybe I'd just look back on a few things that have become current and that are highlighted. He was often mentioned as an example of the Glog of the island, as I recall. Here we are in the debate, so I'd say, and at the same time it's said it won't support the change of the Constitution. So, all those who killed on the naked island will eventually not be able to be processed without a change of constitution. So it's your choice whether you want to process or not. And that's a simple question for you. Tomorrow will be before you. Those people you're talking about, they're gonna ask you why you didn't raise your hand for it. Your problem, but that's the way it is. We mentioned, you were very accurate and correctly quoting all our allegations. I thank you for that because I stand behind everything I've said, just as the Prime Minister stands. It's true that we also mentioned the defence problem here. We did. And you will think about it when it happens, and it will happen sooner, which will be funny to you and what you have advocated and who has spoken in this law and who has protected whom. And be careful, unfortunately, it will happen sooner or later. Someone will end up because if you want and when we needed some consensus about some things you did what you did, obstructed the maximum, advocated something else in Brussels, so when that happens, you answer to people why it happened, and unfortunately it will happen because it's just the next thing. History teaches us. This has already happened in other countries, and I'm afraid of us too. We spoke, you mentioned the law of integrity. So I think the law of nothingness is too high. Well, I'm the minister who sent the charges from Serbia back without your law on nothing. So, he's completely out-of-date. We brought it here, there's talk of him. You're talking about Maric. Well, Maric may not be able to decide to come here to support the sentence. It's exactly what you swear. So, you need to get in trouble, see what's going on, what's going on, who's doing what, who's behind what's going on and what's going on. I am always ready here to come and answer for everything I have done and from Marić and from the defenders and from the indictments if you want from neighbouring countries etc. I'm just saying this because it's been going on all the time in the debate. This government puts things on the line. Well, I'm willing to put on the scales of what the former governments did, what we do, so let's see what we are and what we are, but let's talk to the arguments. So, the law is proposed before you, the result of the deal. We're going to a date that is and that's one story parallel and unrelated to it is the story of a change in the Constitution. When the Constitution is changed, all who vote for it will be determined whether they are for heavy killings, whether they are no longer protected by old age or not. Not just political. You're talking about one person that someone allegedly wants to protect. So where's the logic that we want to protect someone, and at the same time we're going to be the only protection all these people have, and that's obsolete and that's in the Constitution. So how can that be logical? So we want to protect some perpetrators and political killers, so I've put a burden on myself, and at the same time we come and say we're going to remove the statute of limitations for those people right now. Well, it's the only thing that protects them. It doesn't matter which persecution in Croatia, Germany or anywhere. Well, the other day, there was a list of 68 political murders. You called the law here once. So there's another 67, if only one person committed it. If it's done more than a few hundred then. We want the few hundred, and you're saying we're protecting this one. I mean, it's absurd. I can't figure it out. They're completely facing thesis. As far as they're concerned, there's been talk here somewhere about taking down sanctions, when they're stripping, when they're not stripping. Again, let's talk about the documents. You have EU documents, the European Commission, a draft decision, item 23, I have already quoted it. The sanctions are lifted when this deadline is lifted. It says black on white. That's not ours, that's what they wrote. And after all the Member States, including us. Well, I think, and we're in some sort of story, we're looking for conspiracy, we're just going to read what's written and what's said. There's nothing under the table and it's not gonna be under the table, it wasn't there. It's all public, everything is visible, everything can be read. We've been talking for months about something, so I'm going back to our quotes, so what we're saying all the time if something goes wrong with the acquis, we're going to fix it, period. Did we challenge this debate, did we go three months with this topic, talked about what will happen, hundreds of millions, billions of Croatia will disappear. Here's where I hear some stories about how many tens of millions again because of something I don't understand, it doesn't really make sense, but I guess that's not how some people see it. What, who was that talking? Who actually advocated this happening in some way? And now we're here, that won't happen. All the time we've been talking about all the acts of sanctions won't be. There will be no damage and consequences for Croatia. And that's what happened. And why now to be disappointed, why not support it? Here, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49910	Thank you very much. Replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49911	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here, Mr. Minister, everything would be fine if it were voted on Friday and in eight days, it would be worth it. There would be no dispute over the adoption of the Law on the Non-Aging of War Crimes in the Change of the Constitution would absolutely not be asking any questions from the HDZ club. There would be no debate at all today, you'd be in front of clubs, and it would be the end of the story. That's all the reason. So, immediately remove the possibility of any sanctions that is the fear that exists, that's what floats over Croatia, that's what's already being launched and waiting for Brussels to accept this deadline that you put up by 1.01.2014. or you and the prime minister together will be invited to talk again in Brussels or you won't be able to see it, that we are having another debate. But I'm telling you honestly and honestly, HDZ is only for changing the law on non-depreciation if you put this thing to go on Friday and it goes right away. We'll all be in. Everything else is utopia, everything else you can't convince us that you're helping the defenders, everything else isn't standing. Everything else doesn't hold water, everything else is as transparent as fly paper. There's no such thing, my dear minister, that you can convince us that we're going to help the defense attorneys, there's no such thing. If you wanted to, you could. Both the State's Attorney's Office and the Ministry of Justice have the possibility for all those accused of being absent to send hundreds of red Interpol warrants to Serbia, you have not done so today or those before or anyone else. That's what the Croatian defenders are looking for. Then there's legal certainty in our hands everything else is utopia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49912	Replication response, Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49913	Thank you very much. So, I've come forward several times and I repeat here the sanctions will not be. And you don't have to be afraid of that or anyone. So that's not going to happen and that's guaranteed by this government. And there will be no harm, so primarily no harm for Croatia from this will be done. She's gone and she won't be here. And that's where the story ends. As for what you're talking about, we can do it once, but I'm going to tell you one thing right now is that I've found in the ministry a number of warrants that were supposed to be called out, but that's not going to go to this government on the soul. We can talk about who worked as soon as possible, but it's also true that we activated and sent. I can give you a regulation against who. So that's no problem at all. So that's something that it is. I don't know why it wasn't working but we do. We're not doing any selection against anyone who, against whom not, those who are going outside and going to an APB. And whoever we can get, we'll judge him. That's our job. Just as our task is to ensure that, through cooperation, because sometimes you can't without cooperation with other countries in the environment, that issue ends once, and that this extended jurisdiction that they're carrying out, but we, if you want, we opened it up, we first put it on the table, this government. And with them they insist that some things start to change and some things will change. And here we are. So, I suggest you don't open it now. If you want the data, you'll get how much of it we've found and how long we've sent out and how long it's been waiting in the ministry, not under this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49914	You can't get a replica because this is the answer to your replica. ... Well, the answer to the line, yes. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the proposals all three laws later. Tomorrow we start at 9.30 with a debate on the final proposal of the Law on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient vehicles in road transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49915	The following is the final proposal for a Law amending the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 480. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Croatian Labour Party Representatives' Club, the club of independent representatives of Jadranka Kosor and HGS representatives. I'd like to request a representative of the motionary. ... Are you looking for a word now? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Sure, go ahead. Wait for your esteemed deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49916	Thank you very much, just to finish the sentence. Mr. President, because of everything that is of particular interest to the Croatian public regarding these three laws that are in the agenda and events, some new information that we witnessed yesterday on the subject of these laws I am asking you for a break for the HDZ Representatives Club for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49917	Okay, you have the right to do that. We'll give it 10 minutes. That's enough for you. I'll see you here at 12.35. It's 12.20 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.30 HOURS]] Time's up for a break. I call on the president of the HDZ Club to explain the request for a break and what they decided at the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49919	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. We have three laws before us concerning the same thing that deals with the same question or the same matter, judicial co-operation in criminal matters with EU member states. And on the suggestions, I'd say there's a lot to be said in the House. It's said a lot, maybe the accentes that came out of our sessions aren't entirely the ones we wanted to send, so we'd like to talk about something else on this occasion. And as you like to say for the complete information of the Croatian public, I would like to present the position of the HDZ Club on this whole problem. Unfortunately, today, the Croatian government has shown by acting as a parliamentary majority the intention it had since the beginning of treating the issue of judicial co-operation, which is the fact that it will mostly implement a law that we believe is less bad than the previous one, a law that had to be changed because of the European Commission's mandate as it was given. And that order was to move out of the law a deadline from which the law applies to all crimes and the government did so. She did, of course, the last day of that deadline because her deadline was set by 1.1.2014 at the latest. You have not accepted all our arguments and today you have entered the agenda on the subject of this law into the agenda on the establishment of an investigative committee on the determination of facts in the case of the murder of Mr Stjepan Djurkovic. I will also warn you on this occasion that if no one else, but then at least the Croatian Parliament should work legally. This kind of violence and the establishment of the agenda is unprecedented in ours, but I would say a brief democratic history. So I will warn you of the provisions of the Law on the Research Committees which, in Article 4, states: "The investigation committee cannot be based on the questions on which the court proceedings have been initiated so long as the proceedings are pending." The notorious fact that Mr Đurekovic's murder proceedings are being conducted in the Federal Republic of Germany is the notifying fact that Croatia has received a request or a European arrest warrant to hand over those involved in the case to the German judiciary and the notoristic fact is that you do not want to do so. With these acrobatics, legal smics and machinations, you give up on international commitments, we have already talked about it, and now you are additionally pressuring the Constitution on an independent and independent judiciary to the court and act as is the policy of the ruling majority. And what's a missed accent I'd say in our earlier appearances is what we want to talk about again today about the same problem. You have yesterday's news of judgments and decisions in this case of the Supreme Court commenting on decisions concerning the same issue, which is the implementation of a policy or fulfilment of the conditions assumed for the execution of a European arrest warrant. We've asked of you, and again we're pleading, don't impose a policy on the judicial authority. The judicial authority is independent and independent and therefore we did not engage in detailed discussions on certain issues such as the issue of limitations but we asked you to allow and allow the judiciary to carry out its own function. In today's act, you have re-injured the laws of this country, you are establishing committees that have no basis in the law, not to mention how in the title you have narrowed down the subject to be dealt with so that it is not at all spoken to now but to the famous Mr Perkovic, but to the murder of Stjepan Djorekovic and you are taking over to Parliament for judicial functions. It's inadmissible in a civilized country. That is why it is our appeal that you give it up and act in accordance with the laws that you yourself have brought.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49920	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Deputy Minister of Justice, Sandra Artuković Kunšt, to be shown on the amendment of the Croatian Labour Club to article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49921	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and respected MPs. The government does not accept the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party, which is proposed to "1st of January 2014" in Article 2(1). They replace the words "in the eight-day period of publication in the National Journal" for reasons which as you know, the Republic of Croatia has now reached agreement with the European Commission as a full member of the European Union and agreed to make the change happen on 1 January 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49922	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers, the applicant of the amendments, the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49923	As far as we were told in the Parliament, the agreement with the European Commission on amending the law was to bring the amendments to the law into force by the end of this year at the latest. Not on January 1st next year. No later than the end of this year. We have offered an amendment that has been agreed with the European Commission between what the Government has proposed and that no later than the date or time. We didn't get it three times, although we asked no reason why the government would suggest one. 1st year is not the end of this year if we are already playing with dates. So no reasonable, understandable, reasonable explanation has been given why we delay the application of the amended text of the law. And for that reason, I have the right to suspect that the delay of that deadline has direct ties to the announced constitutional changes. Yesterday, the government re-emerged because of a decision by the Supreme Court, in the same law interpreting the disputed, application of the European arrest warrant. And now we are in a situation where the legislative authority has one position, an executive second, and everyone is calling for the independence of the judiciary. ... I will quote Prime Minister Milanovic: Anyone who does not trust the Croatian judiciary should request a release from Croatian citizenship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we don't trust the judiciary, they'll judge fair and square and enforce this law that we have to believe in. I request a vote on this amendment and the adoption of this amendment could raise any doubt that the constitutional changes that are on the agenda and this Law are interrelated.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49924	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers which the Government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to the amendment of the Club of Independent Representatives of Jadranka Kosor and the representative of the HGS. I'm asking the Deputy Minister to be made aware of this amendment. Something's a little different.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49925	Thank you very much. The amendment refers to Article 2(1) and is proposed to replace the words on 1 January 2014 with the words "in the eight-day period of publication in the National Journal.". As for the above reasons, the Croatian Labour Government does not accept the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49926	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49927	Mr. President, Madam Deputy, this amendment does not read as you quoted, not eight days after the publication in the People's Newspaper, but the first day since the publication in the National Journal. So, this amendment proposal is different from the proposal of fellow Labourists. I'm sorry you didn't read here what the meaning of the amendment my club submitted. It is, in fact, the same amendment that we have submitted when the law was passed and when the amendments to the law were voted in June. And then through the amendments to the law that we passed in August, and here we are now in the amendment to the law that the government has proposed. So, I will repeat everything that is said and just before is said, if the Government of the Republic of Croatia has agreed with the European Commission to remove the restriction from August 2002 at the latest by 1 January 2014, then it can actually mean that if it has a good will and that all doubts are really removed and all doubt can then mean it immediately. So, we propose it to be immediately, immediately after this law is amended by the law that finally removed that objection is published in the National Journal. By 1 January 2014, we will continue to deal with this law, we will continue to doubt here in the Croatian Parliament we will continue to deal with this issue because the government in the debate on amendments to the law has not offered any, none of any acceptable or unacceptable but no relevant answer as to why the deadline is 1 January 2014. So, of course, I'm asking for a vote because this government is reopening its flanks on all sides and we're going to continue to deal with past issues instead of starting to deal with the 2014 budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-01-0.u49928	Thank you, thank you very much. Please state the amendment of the Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS representative whom the Government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I don't think he's got the right majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please state who's in favour of the final bill? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 83 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 8 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we continue to work in the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament according to the established agenda. This is a debate on : - Final proposal of the Law on the promotion of clean and energy efficient vehicles in road transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 456. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the bill by mail. in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall include the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received reports from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zdenko Anetešić Deputy Minister of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. Your Honor, Deputy Minister, please be my guest.
