ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28565	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. So in front of you, there's no draft amendments to the law of law enforcement. I'll just give you a brief explanation of what this is all about. Thus, the law which was passed in 2007 at that time received very good results, however, over time also saw numerous shortcomings in its application. Let me just give you one example, for example. The number of growing objects means that it increases from 10 to 12 thousand items per year, so much the backlogs increase. Also in the period from 2007 to 2011, only about 12% of what was imposed were executed or charged. So these are also the shortcomings of this law that have now led us to this proposal for change. What we start with and what's very important and is very often in front of you, it's narrowing down the definition of a violation. Namely, we now have a very broad definition so that many behaviors that can be sanctioned need in another way, either through tight procedures or through some sort of civil-legal responsibility etc. At one point we started, we crossed 500 laws that contained the provisions of the law, and then we stopped because we didn't know where we were going to come from. But this is all I'm telling you about the number. So these are laws, and the provisions are about thousands. So the idea is that through this in the future and in other special laws it narrows down, not to narrow it down but to use it differently and more effectively, that criminal responsibility. Next, one thing that has been seen in practice is that there is no insignificant violation. It is absurd that you have an insignificant crime and it applies, and you have no insignificant offense which by its nature is much easier. That's what we're introducing now. What does that mean? This means that a court and an authorised prosecutor is given the possibility when the essential traits of a misdemeanor are achieved that they are not being prosecuted for any kind of threat or damage to a protected good that is in itself insignificant. I'm saying we've got it in Penitentiary. We didn't have it in Crime. A lot of things go, ends up and shouldn't. What we want next, we want from our authorised prosecutors, so from one side of the country to step up our activity. We want one extra responsibility. That's why we're prescribing a whole series of actions that authorized prosecutors have to take when they commit the offence. We are bound by certain directives of the European Directive, but that is what we think we should do. From what may seem obvious, which is to determine the exact address at the beginning, and not to give the case when it comes to court then the court asks the same prosecutor several times to establish the address and so the case takes a very long time, up to a whole series of warnings to the defendant who must be given immediately at the beginning. This will put the defendant in a more favourable position but will contribute to the significant effectiveness of the procedure. At the head of the opportunity and the particular principle of conditional opportunity is something we think is very important in the offense. What does that mean? This means a particularly conditionality in the opportunity that you can reach an agreement to remedy the damage done by a breach. I was talking about graphites, for example. It is an offence, it may also be a criminal offence, but why not condition it by correcting what has been done and then eventually seeing whether or not it will be pursued at all. Because first we actually realize the effect we want. We want damage repairs, we want it not to happen again. Of course, there are conditions, it must not be about someone who has already been punished for these offences, etc., so there are a whole series of ways of avoiding it actually befitting ordinary offenders. I said agreeing too, I got it in criminal, it gives good results, we didn't have it in violation which is absurd. So you can agree on eight years in prison, you can't agree here on 5,000 kuna,...the situation, now we're introducing it. Very important, the flat-rate cost of the second-degree procedure. We have now had a very frequent appeal due to the capture of old age, going to the High Court and actually the party that did it, the defendant who did it, I won't say that he didn't bear the penalty, but he didn't pay any expense, which is completely unusual. That wasn't so far, that's what we're introducing. Of course, one who is released will not pay anything, but I am talking about those who are convicted means a second-degree procedure. Dissolve the High Court in a way that certain proceedings will be resolved in a 4 major criminal court, that they will end there. It is cases which are not legally more complex in nature and are, as a rule, legal medicines only for sanctions of the costs of the procedure. So that's where it's not about the metrics, so it's not about whether someone committed a crime, it's just whether it's 5,000 or 10,000 fines. So far, it's been going to the High Court of Justice. It's burdened him terribly. It's absurd. That means now we're putting on these four major misdemeanor courts. Also, one thing that's in front of you but which we won't mean by it right now is that we're giving up, that's what we're considering is the restriction of filing a complaint. So I'm saying if someone wanted to discuss it, there's no need, we're kicking it out of the law. It's just some 5-6 thousand items that we wanted to limit, and we don't think that's the number we should go with that institute for. We wanted to limit it in those cases where it's only a fine for very small amounts, again not to burden the entire judicial apparatus, but I say we give it up so it won't be in the final text. This is the result of discussions on committees and public debates at all. Next. So when we gave this all one more thing, it's out of date. Now we're four years old, we're turning out to be 3 years old plus 1.3 years old, it's 1 year old when it comes to appeal decision-making. Why did we decide to do this, because we introduced these entire efficiency institutes that I was talking about before and because when a citizen puts himself in a situation to be prosecuted, the state bodies must be more active and faster. The court will be quicker with this, and that's why we're going with this institute. Very important, the expansion of the Institute of Penalty Facilitation. So far, the law here has been extremely inflexible, and you couldn't really ease the sentence in accordance with economic strength and the actual committing of the offence, you couldn't bring it down to one appropriate punishment. Of course, it would be ideal in the perspective of determining that economic strength, but we'll talk about it another time. At this point, what's the matter? With mitigation you have practically come to the fact that a small economic operator, craftsman or anyone will pay the same penalty as a very large firm or that the same penalty will be paid if you haven't done anything at all or if you're just too late. Now we're extending that possibility, so we're giving one greater possibility of individualizing the punishment not only to the person but to all these parameters. It's in the hands of the court. So we're expanding the possibility of easing the sentence. In particular, it is necessary to take into account a whole series of special laws where the minimums are 300,000 kunas and now you, with current mitigation, can reach 100,000, and it may be something that is a violation of a deadline or is not such a mark. So we're not reducing the fines, but we're giving the possibility to adjust the sentence. We've already talked before about the billing system, so we encourage the case not to come to trial. What that means is, what can be paid at what is said to be the person of the place, or at the place of initiation or within one period. Ideally it would be that the payment card, not that the cash transaction is being made, will actually be able to be tempered to some half. It's only about mandates, so those penalties that are normally milder in nature, so it's not about major violations. Also during the procedure when a first-degree decision is made, we give the possibility to pay immediately, means that it does not go into further proceedings for 2/3. The idea is next, not only to discharging court proceedings but the idea that punishment in a criminal must come as soon as possible. When she gets here fast, she's effective. You know, when you have a stretch, actually, she loses her meaning. The register of fines which are not paid by an institute which is well-known, and we actually apply it in other things, for example in public procurement, are not penalties but unpaid liabilities cause you to be unable to participate in the competition. He predicts here that citizens wouldn't have some of their own, of what the state gives them could gain if they didn't pay the fine. Of course, it is not about documents that are essential, which are important for the achievement of those fundamental human rights rather than for others, but it is the idea to introduce it as of 1.1.2014. We just need some time to get him in. There are a whole series of other things, from preventing a double procedure of criminal and criminal, different definitions of specific obligations that can be imposed under criminal sanctions, etc. There are also institutes that I won't explain in detail now, but which will affect the speed of the procedure because it's about delivery, it's about what I said in the previous warning of the defendant, and then his behaviour is different from the whole process. So the law on the one hand will contribute to the discharge, increase legal certainty, that's for sure. And the most important thing is to go towards that conspire of infringing these numerous provisions. So, there will be a better impact of the infringement procedure. Our assessment at this point may only be that, with the law in force, the High Violent Court will immediately unload over 6,000 cases, that it will be subsectively unloaded by about 16000, which means that the average will fall by 50 percent. That should be the effects on the High Violent. About these effects of a number of objects that will not enter the system at all, we couldn't predict it at this time. But we expect them to be significant, too. One line, we're now on about eight hundred thousand cases, court cases. That's about 300,000 cases of misdemeanor. So now we see what we're talking about. We're talking about over one-third of what's in front of our courts or about one-third of what's in front of us. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28566	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. A replica of respected representatives of Anne Lovrin has been reported to your presentation. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28567	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I'm using the replicas institute to explain maybe something we don't understand either. Now you said, and in the media it is mentioned that the proposed changes are actually shortened. That's simply not true in my opinion, because so far there were two plus two. So a relative limitation period of two years, and an absolute four. Now it's also practically absolute four, and yet the one where you can run the procedure and run it for three years because so far you haven't been able to initiate the infringement procedure after two years, and now there's a theoretical possibility that even after two and a half years you can start the procedure, then you can illegally complete it for up to three years and extend it by one year until the final absolute age. It was a very similar situation or the same now with practically now a relative time limit, i.e. the possibility of a procedure being extended beyond both theoretical possibilities and over 2 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28568	Here's the Minister's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28569	Thank you very much. Yeah, maybe I was inaccurate. So, canceling a relatively outdated that's true. So there's going to be a long time in which a criminal trial can be initiated. However, the principle is three-year-old. Only an extraordinary one can be extended by one year. Which means in practice. In practice means you can run it, it is true that there is no relative procedure can be now and after two and a half years, but it must end in three years. Exceptionally, if it's a complaint procedure, then it comes to this one year. Here it is. This is where we approach the decisions of the Penal Code, where we have also similarly solved the relative statute of limitations. I'm saying, if I was inaccurate here it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28570	The debate will show. Do the representatives of the working bodies want to take part? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We're going to debate the club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The club of Croatian Labourists and the respected representative Branko Vuksic is next. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28571	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. There's no shoplifter or shoplifter who hasn't heard the expression, you get two. Especially that rule applies at the time of the sale. For cash in almost every store you can get a discount. Soon, these consumer butician rules will also apply in traffic, roads and courts. As much as it'll be legal. That doesn't mean it's bad if it is, it's not all buty bad. For two violations, if you take the cash out of your wallet, you only pay one, that means two for one. It's worth it! Although I do not understand why in this law or the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Code of Breakdown was not discussed in that pre-nuptial package. It should be said that there is yet another reviewed, impressive text with a simple eye even easy solutions. This practice so far has not been feasible. Its application was only partially successful. Are there arguments for this claim? There are. That the current Criminal Code applied from 1 January 2008 was not effective, that it did not relieve the High Court of Violation of the Republic of Croatia, that it was not effective in the enforcement of enforceable criminal acts testifying to unsolved court cases. Instead of reducing the number of pending cases, it's growing. And it grows from day to day. A year ago, more than 58,000 cases were pending in the drawers of the High Court of Violent Court of the Republic of Croatia, and at the end of last 2012, it is assumed that the number of pending cases exceeds 70000. The tax administration paid only 12% of the fines from 2007 to 2011. They only paid for the big suckers. If it's just a percentage of 12%. And the state should at least hand out thank-yous to them. In 2009, there were 233,000 requests for forced payment at about 200 million kuna. Of these 200 million kunas, only 47 million were charged. Which means it's not a quarter. Without a doubt, we need to find a more efficient, more stimulating model of collecting fines and relieve the courts. However, when we accept such solutions, it is proof that something with the rule of law is wrong. How do you accomplish that? The law offers new measures. We need to achieve this, it is said, by new legal solutions that will relieve the courts, and lead the offenders to carry out their obligations. And the transgressors would rather execute them, for the penalties are also on sale or are milder said on discount. And not just any 50% or 30%. Doesn't mean that if you don't have cash, or cash, you'll miss your chance to save. If you pay the fine in time, you'll burn one-third of the value of the fine, which is also not to be thrown away. The only question is how are you going to do it in time, whether you're going to determine that one-third yourself, whether it's going to be accurate, you're going to write off that pardon or someone else is going to do it to you. So I'd like the minister to explain to us how one-third of it will be written off. The state will also allow a settlement for offenders who recognise the misdemeanor. Probably the same thing about someone who confesses half of them are forgiven. The law shows such good will that many will be tempted to break the law only to feel the gentle hand of a repressive apparatus on their backs. Infringement law also provides for adapting to the financial opportunities of individuals of offenders. The newspaper is also the introduction of registers of penalties imposed, and of fines not charged. You didn't pay the penalty for a traffic violation? Well, you won't get your ID, you won't be able to extend your driver's license or you won't be able to get your passport. And what do you do when a criminal punishment cannot be charged with a commission? What if the offender doesn't have the money? It's the ones who have the money. The Institute of Labour will be applied for the common good. And what about when the Institute of Labour cannot be applied for the greater good? Then the new fine will be clearly replaced by prison. If the proposed amendments and additions to the Criminal Code increase the effectiveness of the collection of fines, and if the proposed amendments and additions to the Criminal Law dissipate the courts, that is to say, shorten the criminal trial, it will be a sign that credible messages have been sent that we are all obliged to comply with the laws and to bear responsibility for our conduct. Respecting a model of two violations for one sentence definitely seems to be worth it. The law is democratic in this respect, there is much you can agree on. The minister says if you can agree on eight years in prison, why can't an agreement be reached on criminal penalties. First of all, I'm sure it's not good that I can negotiate eight years in prison. What's under five is still understandable. But I don't know what it's going to look like in Croatia, in a country where the elite is agreed on, in a country where there's a lot of things common to bad law. In the end, it should be said that indeed this law is one of the clear ones, I would even tell me in some parts of the witty, unmistakable proposals, a law that hides nothing behind the scenes and Croatian Labour Party will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28572	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have reports of replicas. The first replica and respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28573	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleague, first of all, I am pleased that you have recognized the value of this law and that you will support it, but I still have some way to oppose my opinion of what you have stated in terms of calling it "butting." It's about an institute that's known in criminal law that hasn't existed since yesterday, which exists in the Penal Code, which is the institute that when someone admits that we say that in the spirit of the common language, half of them are forgiven. And you know why? Because if he does so reduces the pressure on the work of the court, he reduces the pressure on the operation of the repressive apparatus. The man confessed to his guilt. He's aware he's made a mistake, he accepts responsibility. It does not have to be activated afterwards, the judiciary does not have to be activated afterwards, unless the penalty has been paid, the IRS, the Criminal Sanctions Centre, etc. must not be activated afterwards. We have it in the Penal Code, we have it in the Penal Code, even a lot more than this. In some situations, recognition can lead to a release from punishment. If we're going to call it shopping, if we're going to call it butting, I agree, it's okay, let's call it. It's only important to produce the effect that we have more sanctions and less procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28574	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28575	My dear colleague, you said this is what we're already talking about in criminal and criminal law, I didn't dispute that. You actually used this replica to show dissension with my rhetoric and they interrupted you in fact my qualifications of words, but we talked about the same, so let us differ in something in the Croatian Parliament. We just said it's one funny thing, it just means it's a smart law because funny people can only be smart people and they shouldn't be all right mortally seriously, as lawyers think there should be dark looks and words that those dark looks just confirm.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28576	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28577	Well, I wouldn't say like Mr. Vuksic said the violations pay off. As we just heard, we read ten to twenty thousand items a year, and about twenty thousand of these fines are charged. The system works, I won't say it doesn't work, how the system works should change not because of Europe but because of us. It is certain that this law is an agreement, what Mr Vuksic is about, which the minister said in eight years' time someone can agree on for a fine or a fine of five thousand kunas, you simply don't have that option. I'm always for another principle, however, to keep the sanctions as low as possible. The economic situation is painful, the economy is extremely uncertain, the citizens live as they live from day to day increasingly difficult and therefore should take care of the amounts of sanctions and, in my court, they should be much lower and therefore this easing institute is certainly the best thing this bill knows or what this proposal offers. I'd also be in favor of reducing the fines with the Institute's parallel mitigation. Every new law introduces a whole range of new criminal penalties. The fines are constantly in the Republic of Croatia, which are more difficult, the penalties are higher and they are bigger and it is simply not good. I think we need to have a measure, we need to know how the economy lives, we need to know how our citizens survive, and so once again I'm going to say easing punishment plus this agreement, it's the best part of the law, and it can't be shopping in my court, it can only be turned into a single word's effective tomorrow into easier carrying out a misdemeanor procedure and easier to collect criminal sanctions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28578	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28579	Dear colleague Cain, so that the prices of electricity are going up, at least the new prices are going down, and we agree that we should fall and that we are certainly not in this House and there will be no citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially when it comes to violations that seem more to me, I would prefer that statistics as many people as get serious punishments and how many people, I think that we are here somewhere near those 12% manage to avoid jail. Whether violations are paid, so I didn't mean to make it worth it to break anything, we should be pushing for respect for the right. I tried to encourage people to pay, I tried to encourage them to comply with these laws that will be, which will ease the penalties and suggest that they pay immediately, and so the state's register will be charged.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28580	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. Now it's Club time, I apologize to my esteemed colleague Petrovic. On behalf of the promoter, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic. Here's to the pay phone, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28581	Just three things that came up so they wouldn't show up afterwards. Therefore, who will determine the punishment will determine the body that he normally pronounces. So if it's a cop, then he'll, it's known that it's a 2,000 kuna violation that he would normally assign to you, so that's half of it in the process of those two-thirds then it's pronounced in the verdict and the defendant was warned when and what, purely because of precision. It is also not a matter of IDs, passports and the like because these are documents that are important for the achievement of certain fundamental rights of citizens. So, of course, you can't limit it. And that's what a citizen always has a right to do. It's about other documents like traffic, driver's license and stuff. So clean for clarification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28582	Thank you too, Minister. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the Social Democratic Party Club of Croatia and the respected representative Sandra Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28583	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Violent Law, the applicable Infringement Law of 2007. The year that came into force. January 2008. Years. The fundamental objections to the effects of the applicable law are currently too much of a suppression of the High Violent Court by over-excessive cases of appeal in a high criminal court and the problem of the enforcement of enforceable infringements. These are problems that the existing law of law did not properly address and which in this domain of justice as well as in each other where there is a more significant number of leftover cases we must deal with more seriously. Considering that a number of nearly 70,000 pending cases has been mentioned, with the tendency of their growth in the High Violent Court of Alert bell and not only in the order of judges. We want and we are obliged as legislator to do what is in our power, to facilitate the work of the courts and to prevent further accumulation of cases and the resolution of residual cases so that it is an acceptable number that will not interfere with proceedings or be of such a great influence on the average duration of the proceedings. With regard to the enforcement of powerful judicial decisions, the existing problem of non-payment of fines could be if further scaling is ignored. If it has been found that as many as 88% of the fines remain unpaid, it is evident that this problem must be approached in a different way than it seems so far. In Croatian law, the newspaper would be this if the state, for example, could be guided by the saying "Whoever admits half of them is forgiven!" already several colleagues before me said so, and it would be true if a person did not dispute the committing of the offence and decided to pay a fine on the spot. Only half of the fine was paid, and it would be thought that it was paid in full. The ministry also completed the old People's Proverbs as follows, which proves that he should be forgiven 1/3, according to which a citizen who decided to pay the fine within a period of time would have to pay only 2/3 of the fines imposed and would have been considered to have paid the full amount. I would like to stress here that we believe that the purpose of this legal solution is not to charge the budget but not to give up filling the budget but to correct the wrong pattern of conduct that has been present so far in our criminal law, or with our citizens. The same effect is also sought by the establishment of a register of fines, not fines paid, which will surely encourage convicts to settle their outstanding fines but not since 2014. We believe that this solution will encourage citizens who are aware that they have committed an offence and do not dispute that when they collect the costs of the procedure and its duration and eventually the penalty for which they are expected to be charged or paid half of the fines imposed or prevented and the problems solved. It is also important to encourage citizens' awareness of what it means to engage an entire judicial apparatus in disputes where each of the parties and the defendant, for example, The representatives of the redistributive authority who have directly observed or otherwise established the initiation of the offence know that it has been committed and who is its perpetrator. Such a dispute over the dispute has led, among other things, to the stifling of the second-degree criminal court in appeal and, in the end, to serious objections by the EU Commission on unsolved cases. The introduction of a lump sum for the second-degree procedure should also help to assess the profitability of the appeal for the defendant, if he himself is aware of the conduct and the evidence of the infringement committed after the first-degree decision. Furthermore, the problem point of the current infringement procedure is also forced payment of fines. The amounts charged in relation to those requested by the Tax Administration are devastating and suggest that the efficiency of the collection must be increased urgently. If more efficiency were to be achieved and the general prevention in terms of deterring from committing an offence because of the awareness that the final punishment would not be possible to avoid, this would be the effect of these newspapers I consider better. If the fine is not even charged by forced payment, it will also be easier to apply for the replacement of fines by working for the general good, and only at the end of the day will the prison be replaced exceptionally. The introduction of one convict in prison for 2,500 pounds of unpaid punishment is extremely expensive for the state and requires the re-engagement of a judicial apparatus and a prison system for only one person for a few days. Also, what this law clearly seeks to achieve is the greater exclusiveness of the infringement procedure. In fact, the offence was also the weight of the impediment and the degree and severity of the injury and the threat of the good that is protected by a misdetermination provision has so far been quite a wide range in Croatian law. First of all, infringements are contained in a series of laws and the basis of these laws are also processed, which is logical because there is an innumerable number of life situations related to different areas that regulate different laws that can result in such an infringement requiring prosecution. Second, not all works with their weight and intensity as such are as difficult. In view of the circumstances of a particular case, therefore, some misdemeanors may also be declared insignificant. If we bear in mind that a violation is a violation of injury and a threat to some good so intensely that it requires prosecution by a state apparatus, but not so much injury or threats that it would require prosecution, then we believe it is a good thing that an authorised prosecutor has a discretionary right to assess that a criminal act has caused such a minor injury that he should not be prosecuted or that he should give up on criminal prosecution because of his insignificantness. It is not logical that the right to qualify for an act insignificant have parties in criminal proceedings, and in the offence they do not have as it has been so far. I believe that authorised prosecutors and courts will be careful and objectively, and, in accordance with the law, use this opportunity to provide them with a new law of violation. And I believe that this will also encourage the legislator to actually prescribe such acts as a violation of their laws that they deserve by their weight. The same logic will certainly be applied when applying the principle of opportunity by giving up on criminal persecution which is also more detailedly governed by this law. What will also represent a particular newspaper in the infringement procedure are its provisions on limitations. As we heard earlier, and as the minister explained to us, I think it is correctly noted that the state cannot afford, let alone by law to prescribe or extend permission for its own failure. Therefore, the period of limitation for infringements is now three years with the possibility of its exceptional extension for a year if the case is in appeal if, before the expiry of the limitation period, an inadmissible decision on the infringement is taken, or a first-degree decision. In this way, the provisions on limitation are in line with criminal legislation, it is important to stress, and in practice the courts will have to become faster and more effective in the first-degree procedure and we believe that this will not lead to a mass obsolescence of proceedings because it is something that no conscientious and honest judge will deliberately and knowingly allow. Among other things, one of the news is the expansion of the possibility of judicial mitigation because there are very high minimum penalties that have not been adapted enough, but have not been adjusted to the severity of the offence, or the severity of the injured goods. Not all citizens are equally economically strong and one small craftsman is facing 50,000 kuna fines minimum does not mean the same thing as a large company. As for abolishing the right to appeal, we welcome the fact that the minister pointed out the withdrawal of this provision in the second reading, i.e. in the final draft of the law. If this is about 5 or 6 thousand items, we don't think it's a large number compared to this terrible number that's mentioned in 70,000 items, so maybe it's not because of the number of 5 or 6 grand that should be played with the restriction of the right to appeal. My colleagues and colleagues, the newspaper presented is a taste of amendments and additions to the law of the SDP club that we consider a very good proposal and we will certainly support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28584	Thank you, too, Your Honor. A replica of the respected representative, Zoran Vinkovic, has been reported to your presentation. Take out the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28585	Dear colleagues, and this law often mentions the principle of economicism, efficiency, etc., and I would like to remind myself again of one decision of the former government, and it is about the abolition or transfer of municipal courts that are related not to criminal proceedings but to criminal proceedings and then I get an answer that is not the competent ministry, although it says there that in the next period, it will be further considered and seen, etc., although in my explanation and the question is precisely the system of economics and efficiency listed. Thus, the criminal cases were transferred to Nasice by one foolish decision from the Municipal Court in Djakov. The state's attorney's office also moved from Đakov to Nasice, and Nasice has had significantly fewer cases all the time in the last 5 years and these items have come from Đakov, Osijek, etc. So those judges can have work to do there.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28586	That's not the subject of a colleague. Violent law, not a judicial organization.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28587	I'm talking about the principle of economic and efficiency and even in a misdemeanor procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28588	Let me not. Go back to the misdemeanor procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28589	Look, I mean...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28590	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28591	It really doesn't make sense how you run a session of Parliament. It really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28592	Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28593	So I'm asking for an urgent review of that decision and I'm saying it on behalf of citizens who don't even have a bus line from Djakov to Nasic, not to mention the state road he's in. And I demand that this decision be reviewed urgently in order to ensure the principle of economic and efficiency in that part of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28594	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Sandra Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28595	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am pleased to see that you have recognized one way, one new and smart way of economics, contributing to the economics of the infringement procedure, and that you have recognized this as one smart provision, unlike those of some new rules that you pay the flags for the orderly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28596	Thank you, too. The next club is the HNS club and respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28597	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS will support the amendment and addition of the Criminal Code. We believe that the purpose of this law is to raise the efficiency and efficiency of the judicial system in the segment of infringements, so that we believe that a whole series of these provisions that are in the law and the newspapers that are proposed are considered very good and I will in my debate highlight some of them that we believe should be highlighted as good newspapers. So, above all, changing the definition of a violation requires a higher degree of injury or endangerment of a protected good that justifies the infringing sanctioning of their perpetrators. This is a very good proposal since we are becoming more flexible and certainly more efficient and flexible. The introduction of an insignificant offence institute also allows the court and the authorised prosecutor to consider certain behaviours to be a violation, if the degree of threat or injury to the protected goods is minor. This should also ultimately result in the disbursement of the bodies leading the proceedings, i.e. infringing courts. At the very beginning, there was, of course, a lot of discussion about the introduction of a discount if the fine was paid within the deadline, or the possibility of half the fine being paid if paid on the spot in cash, and it was certain that most of us who studied this law had just come to mind this famous marketing proverb you pay one, you get two, and if you translated it into this law, it would be two, you pay one. However, I think it is indeed such a message that has been said here banalises the proposal especially if we look at this proposal in the context of data that we manage to collect only 12% of the penalties and we at the HNS club think that we should try and, in this way, in accordance with the good practice of some other countries that also have similar provisions in breaking laws to go and with this let's call it a marketing measure, that means that if something is paid immediately at the place, it is allowed to be significantly cheaper. Then the provision that continues with regard to the discount, i.e. the payment of the fine, means that the fine not charged will be charged by force, i.e. by working for the greater good if it fails to charge. And that unpaid fine will only be replaced with the penalty of prison. We also find this very good because unfortunately, our citizens have been very often manipulated by this, or speculated in a way that this prison sentence will never, in fact, survive, or have committed themselves to not paying the penalty and that this prison sentence will never actually work especially if we know that our prisons are unfortunately overbooked and that there is no hope that we will soon expand these facilities more significantly in prisons. And of course, that way they completely escaped the sanctions for the crimes they committed. There are no data which is precisely the number of such persons, i.e. the number of such offences that have never occurred, and prison sentences are set. However, if all of this can be replaced by the provisions of this law with the general good, allow me to make a little joke. I think we can immediately start digging a mainland-Peljesac tunnel with voluntary work of all those who have tried to avoid and have avoided paying for a criminal sentence, i.e. that they have received a prison, and have not accepted voluntary work. I think there's a lot of them, but maybe you could tell us how many people there are. Furthermore, we also welcome the introduction of the principle of opportunity, which allows an authorised prosecutor not to initiate a misdemeanour procedure because its launch is not intended or for the same reason does not continue to take place. It's also something that will raise the system's efficiency level. Also, the possibility that the prosecutor and the defendant may negotiate a plea of guilt and agreement on sanctions and measures and may conclude an agreement on what they have negotiated. The register of fines, not fines, should also be a tool which, if there is nothing else, will surely bring some shame to our citizens and their presentation to them, and probably by which they swear more into our budget, as did the other registries, when we decided to publish them publicly. In cases that are not more legally complex in nature, the actual jurisdiction from the High Violent Court of the Republic of Croatia is transferred to local competent courts in Osijek, Rijeka, Split and Zagreb. It's the same good newspaper we welcome. In the second part of the law, i.e. there are a whole series of provisions that are nootechnically regulated and brought into line with the practice of criminal trial in the Republic of Croatia, the acquis and the legal views of the European Court of Human Rights and the Council of Europe Directive, which, of course, we welcome in the Croatian People's Party, we welcome the speed of work of the Ministry of Justice. And as I said in one of the previous discussions on the subject of the judiciary and the judiciary, I think we've done a lot in the last few months with a package of judicial laws. Therefore, the Croatian People's Party will support the proposal of this Act in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28598	Thank you, too, Your Honor. At your presentation, he reported the replica to the respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28599	Dear colleagues, why do you make a claim to two violations pay one banalizing to me that's not clear to me. If the law allows the principle of two for one, then, by your understanding, it would actually be a banal law that I haven't at all hardened. On the contrary, I claim that the law is not banal but is smart, good, the law is life-threatening, corresponds to reality, respects the possibilities of offenders and the state of things and it is desperate in Croatia. Let's just say I'm sorry that the violations are not charged in accordance with the financial weight of the offender. Remember when the cops caught Mr. Kerum flying low on the highway, because he was driving so much that he could call it a low flight, that's when he took out 2,000 kunas and said so little. The legislator should also bear in mind that there are citizens in Croatia whose 10 thousand kuna is a real thing. And you know that in many countries violations are paid as much as the financial power of the offender, so that is one idea to try to apply it in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28600	Replica response, respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28601	My dear colleague, I have not said at any point that the law is banal, but I was encouraged by the fact that, among other things, your discussion said that in some way, it was trying to banish that provision. And as far as banalizing is concerned, it is in general that you colleagues present most of the topics in this House in order to please the voters, and it was definitely not my intention, but it was your intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28602	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28603	I'm sorry, I think it's 216. We don't have any consolidated texts. The colleague insulted her primarily by qualifying me to banalise all topics in the Croatian Parliament. I think it's an insult and that's not how you talk. In the future, if you don't give a warning, then I will also qualify every performance of my colleague and the HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28604	It could be a factor of opinion, and we're not punishing it for now. Let's go, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, don't be angry, Your Honor. Let's go to another replica. Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28605	I don't want to talk about the banalization of my colleague Vuksic, but in any case, I will advocate efficiency and economics. So a series of these violations can also lead to a crime. I may say it from experience so that, but here I repeat this request and I'm going to hand it over to the minister, I don't know if he sold everything, to change one crazy decision because here are all the arguments. Even 2010. The Supreme Court appointed as the second Court of Nasice, given that the Djakova State Attorney's Office and the Djakova Municipal Court were buried in cases as well as in Osijek, and since Nasice had no business, it is proposed that one part of the case go to Nasice so that judges there would not be fired. It was also with the State's Attorney's Office. I note that a citizen who doesn't, and he has to go to that Municipal Court for some potentially petty crime must be raised in Djakova at 420 hours and no car, no bike, no bike, only a shoe, can be returned from Nasica only at 22:30. So that's enough talking about justification and this number of cases that have been tied to both courts, even lack of space in Nasice, the number of residents of Nash and Djakov. But that also doesn't mean that I'm trying to end the State's Attorney's Office in Nasice and the District Court in Nasice for exactly the same reasons. Because then we would be citizens of Nash, who would have to travel in the same way to Djakovo. There's a similar problem with the White monastery.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28606	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28607	Thank you, Mr. President. I mean, I don't know, probably all my colleagues listened to this replica, so I guess the replica was supposed to go to my debate. The replica is how much I can understand what my colleague was saying to Mr. Minister, that is, there was a discussion on a topic that he is opening here completely beyond the subject that we are talking about today. However, this is a case that appears on a daily basis especially in the morning discussions of the fellow concerned. I have nothing to replicate but to draw attention to it systematically and that, with this practice, the honourable Mr. President should stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28608	Thank you very much for your warning. Each representative must have responsibility for himself and for the whole. Thank you very much. We're going further into the debate by the representatives' clubs. It's the HDZ club and the respected representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28609	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. So here's the HDZ club supporting the government's and the promoters' efforts to make it more efficient and efficient infraction. Namely, the Infringement Act, which was passed in 2007, and was then spoken, dealt with insufferably ineffectively by the 2002 Law, above all in terms of an enormous number of cases which fell into oblivion and, above all, because of the suffocation and unresolved cases before the High Criminal Court and unresolved issues and the arrangements of the Institute of Labour for General Good at Freedom in the event of criminal punishment. The 2007 law sought a legitimate solution to make that happen. Here, as we have heard today, the progress is determined. First of all, I think in the discharge of the High Violent Court by introducing a mandatory violation order which has stopped a good part of the offence at first-degree criminal courts. However, reading here the presented data of the ministry is obvious that this legislative framework has not been obtained in the application of good enough results, primarily in relation to the efficiency of the collection and execution of criminal penalties and also in relation to the number of cases, still a large number of cases before the High Court of Justice. This proposal therefore proposes the introduction of some new measures, this is the first reading, we can discuss them they are welcome in terms of solving some of the observed problems. We will make some remarks, and we hope that the Proposer and them will take them into account. So these changes go in the first row towards the discharge of the High Criminal Court, the reduction in the number of cases in general in front of criminal courts and the effectiveness of the collection of fines. The minister said the concept of a violation is redefined in a way that is now defined as that violation of the public order of social discipline and other social values protected by the constitution and by a law that is not protected by criminal law and whose protection could not be achieved by other measures rather than by criminal sanctioning. It's all nice but we've heard that here and 500 laws are about to prescribe criminal sanctions without talking about other regulations of units of local self-government which are also authorized to do so and I'm asking which mechanism is therefore only this definition of a violation is how it is now in a breaking law or how it is here, but nothing is strictly obliged by the proposer of these laws because each one will, by his own assessment, assess whether it is possible to do so by some other measures and will conclude that it is those who have to protect their territory that determine the criminal sanctions. Therefore, according to my assessment, if the Government does not have a single review of the adoption and proposal of laws at the state level, a single review of the criminal sanctions prevented, and if it does not somehow balance it out from this very definition, there will be nothing. The Institute of Insignificant Violation and Opportunity is well introduced as well as in criminal law. The jurisdiction in certain cases transferred from the High Court to four courts in the Republic of Croatia is good for the discharge of the High Criminal Court, however, it is not quite clear why there are also other courts in the larger areas that could form councils that the judge who made the decision does not participate in them, so it seems to me that this is another quiet regionalisation on that principle that the ruling court has imagined the administrative political division of the Republic of Croatia, and it is systematically doing so and ultimately will be factually through certain divisions, so it happened before the possibility of public wide discussion and decision-making was opened in the future administrative political division of the country. As regards the introduction of a flat-rate cost for infringemental second-degree courts, it is also one measure that will in some ways discourage those who would really be hanged to say so. The minister said not to mention it, and I will mention it because I have overlooked that it is definitely inadmissible and unconstitutional and unacceptable to prevent citizens from making a complaint against the judgment of the first-degree court, which has only been given a fine of up to two thousand kunas, deeming it insignificant. Of course, we do not live anywhere else but in Croatia where we cannot believe that the fine of two thousand kunas is insignificant and that the citizen would not have the right to appeal for such a decision punishable. Now, something about the efficiency of the execution of a sanction. There was a lot of talk about discounts, two for one, etc., that sounds good-looking, but let's face it. One country when it imposes sanctions, therefore you have 500 laws that have been prescribed by someone who regulates one area that a violation of the public order of social discipline of a protected good must be protected by sanctions in some amount that the body involved in the area provides. But you're saying now if someone pays it right now, if a lucky man has money and pays it now, it'll be 50% to him. That means you're reducing the fact that you're reducing the penalty. Conversely, the term punishment is such that for every citizen must be equal, for every legal person, for every craftsman, regardless of whether he has the money at present or not, but can be stimulated in such a way that, as so far as it is, it is then that if he engages in the procedure he handles and the costs of the proceedings, and even some additional penalties beyond that. But in this way the de facto of this provision is reduced and the Priory reduces the penalty, so good is no longer protected so much as it is estimated to be. Likewise, the state says in advance, the state is incompetent, so the body has determined that something has to be paid within a certain time limit, but then it's said in advance if you pay within that time limit we ordered you to do, then I'll pay you a little less, and then we'll figure out how much less. So exactly the opposite, and that's where we come to that place, so in our legal system, for many years now, one of the weakest link is the tip. Therefore, the enforcement of the enforcement of state and public law authorities that have the right to impose something. We also see this daily in the implementation of decisions by the state administration and courts. And the only thing we can say is that it's an effective execution, which is the execution of a prison sentence in as many criminal spheres as it is. So, now we've said that after it can't be forced to charge itself within six months, then they'll replace the fine of over two thousand kunas by replacing first work for the common good, if it's not meaningful or if the defendant doesn't agree then with jail time. And now I ask the promoter, and we've already talked about it in the criminal sphere, let's say 2,000 kunas if someone doesn't pay and can't be forced to charge, then it's going to be replaced by 300 kuna, so someone who doesn't pay 2,000 kuna or something more can do for a general good six hours, great, but at the same time will go to jail for six days. So why now, I don't understand why 300 kunas cost one day in prison, and 2 hours in work for the common good. This results in the following, if you are punished by a fine of 1,000 kuna and will be forced to charge you, if you are not charged through FINA, and let's not think that FINA is a magic stick in charge because here we have seen data from 2007 that the Tax Administration has charged about 12% of the fines imposed, and when we talked about the Executive Law, we saw data that FINA paid about 30% of the fines or other charges. And for the simple reason, not because of its ineffectiveness but simply because these people don't have money in their account or have not at all many who will be punished, for example at the same time we have in the parliamentary procedure, let's say the Law of Public Orders and Peace, which we are punishing the vagrant with 2 thousand kunas and we will certainly be able to charge him with it. So, if you're fined with a thousand 500 kuna it won't be possible for you to be replaced by the work for the general good, so you won't be able to determine 2.5 or 3 hours but will go after the inability to collect from the account will go to the IRS, the IRS will then charge you from other means, let's say, they'll collect your movables and... it can go to you with a real estate charge. So the harsher penalties are prevented, the execution is stricter for penalties than for those over two thousand kunas you'll get away with very elegantly, if you don't pay, you'll do six hours of work for a general good that probably no one will know where you'll do them. Further coercion to say so, i.e. encouraging payments of fines imposed, is the obligation to cancel the issue of individual documents. Until now, however, such an option has existed to prescribe special laws, but now the Criminal Law rules as a mandatory short notice of issuing a driver's license, registration of a car, registration of a trade, registration of records, participation in a public tender. I really don't know first this should be considered from a point of view also of citizens' rights since you remember that in time there was an obstacle if you didn't pay taxes when that tax was during Yugoslavia, real estate tax over 40% and up to 45%, but you couldn't get into the garnery if you didn't pay the tax and it was said that it was unconstitutional and it was out of the law, thank God in this new Croatian state. So I'm asking the question of implementation, which means banning participation in a public competition. Which one? In the competition for work, for scholarship, public procurement, concession, so there's a whole series of public competitions. Whether each citizen will have to bring a certificate, and it says in another article that the citizen is not obliged to prove to anyone that he is not being punished. Who's gonna have access to the register? Will it be public data or will it be accessible to certain persons to data from criminal records or unpaid criminal penalties? What are the capacities of all these bodies to check it every time? And about that it would encourage someone to be ashamed, so I guess we've been publishing some data and registers and we've seen as we've been saying that there won't be any effect and that a really serious state doesn't have to reach out to the pillars of shame to help people collect something. After the publication of the taxpayers, it seems to me that about 1% of the tax debt has been charged. So much for those effects. But I don't think that's the point of this either, but I really do ask the Proposer, and I point to these provisions to sort out until the second reading, because this is really going to be impossible to implement, or it's going to be selectively implemented, which is even worse. The same as I warn at the end and it is not the subject of these statements, but it is the current application of the warning measure where it is now said that if some of the conditions are met, the police may give a warning measure, they should stand, because now it's done to whom and when they like. [[Intruder: Bring the end.]] Some kind of warning measure, someone immediately punished. And so the law that leaves such opportunities is not exact and good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28610	Thank you, too. Now we're going to the pictures. The first replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28611	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister. My colleague Lovrin, when it comes to the fact that something is about to change from the root, not to analyze the existing situation, but to do the flat-rate evaluations, then the chance of success is very low. So this assessment and the assessment of how much the IRS has charged in recent years, you need to know why it is or is not charged and all the failure of the judiciary to transfer to the IRS is simply ridiculous. And when you see that these are fines of 200, 300 kuna, which are ultimately to carry out a full procedure of forced collection, the full procedure of forced collection is far more expensive than those 200, 300 kuna, then as you apply the provisions of the General Tax Code and you are here where you are. However, if those who carry out the infringement proceedings gather basic information about who they are punishing and deliver it to those who need to carry out the exercise because, unfortunately, most Croatian citizens against whom the exercise is done somewhere are working and receiving wages and the most effective way of doing it is practically a pay seat. This has never been agreed, achieved with a mistrial, but simply you get a solution and then whoever performs the tax administration sends you several times recommended, this course does not receive it because he knows what needs to be received, we know how it goes, let's not pretend it doesn't work that way and the situation is what it is and that's why I'm telling you that you haven't analyzed the existing situation. The second thing, several hundred laws predict some kind of criminal punishment and don't get carried away, it's terribly strange to me, when I was here discussing, when there was a report of the FINA where this government gave a negative opinion on the FINA report, now you expect that this FINA that doesn't work well for you, and you haven't changed anything except members of the administration, you expect it to make some kind of show for you in those charges. It's just impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28612	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28613	Comrade Shuker, that's clear, but what I was saying was that the state is not one wheel, the other wheel, so now the tax administration is going to say it's not our fault, it's the ministry, it's the courts' fault, etc. I think state institutions must act in accordance with the final political objective. In this case, the ultimate political objective is to protect public order, social discipline, well protected by law and the Constitution, and how this is implemented through state institutions should be fully resolved. So I said, neither FINA is now a magic wand nor is the IRS able to carry out the performance and should be systematically dealt with. It turns out that in this country, the best people who obey all the laws, those who do not comply with court decisions and decisions by state authorities do not pay their obligations, are ultimately better off than those citizens who behave neatly in accordance with Croatian laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28614	Thank you very much. The next replica and respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28615	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues, you were talking about the problem of billing and the price of work provided for in that criminal act when you refer someone to community service. But in the previous sentence, I'd like to say that this is not supposed to be banalized, I mean this point of the agenda. These are laws that actually regulate our mutual relationship in the communal environment, in interpersonal relations on the road, and that is how we admired how in Germany can be neat, how in Croatia can't, how in Slovenia can be orderly and can't be in Slovenia. So I was taught in elementary school that Moscow was clean because there was a severe act of punishment there, when I came, it was unclean. But we tend to really arrange our life and this is a very important sphere of life. Here's my little contribution, I suggest to Mr. Minister two things, I support this law, I'm not going to go into detail now, with some things I disagree, to allow a card to be charged on a list of places because you would realize it anyway because here, as far as I've read it, I haven't seen it, it can be considered as cash payment. And secondly, the price of working hours in community service should be the price of an hour of average Croatian salary. That's my suggestion, because there's no point in sending someone an hour into a hospital circle to clean the grass, it's more expensive than that hour. It must be about one diary minimum in my opinion. If it's 100 kuna, then that's it, you understand me, the price of an hour's average Croatian salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28616	Thank you, Your Honor. And a reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28617	Well, my colleague, even though you spoke to the minister, but you've replicated to me, so I'll tell you. I agree with you, of course, that it's actually the best and most expensive reward when you're turned into a fine for the greater good. Then you earn six hours' work, 2,000 kuna. I think there is no such wage in Croatia and therefore I ask what is the logic of the 300 kuna sentence changing with the day of the prison, and only with the obligation of 2 hours of work for the common good. As for the card, so you know your colleague says that the biggest hunters don't carry cash in their pocket, but cards, so I guess the minister will have it in mind, but then again, we get the punishment for whoever has the money to pay right away, whether it's out of their pocket or with a card is going to sting 50%, who has the money to pay at 8 days, that's going to sting 1/3. And there was talk of whether to pay off the misdemeanors. It is also possible, since for legal persons and for persons who carry out their own activities and craftsmen, the penalty is up to 15000, or 5, and they can go half if they pay immediately, so it is possible for someone to calculate that they will commit an offence because it is cheaper for him, so if they catch him, he will pay half, and it will eventually be paid to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28618	Thank you very much. Now's my chance to say something for both you and the public. Many colleagues and colleagues use the replicas institute to present their own debate, their own position, do not replicate. It can't be arranged by regulation. This must be regulated by the responsibility of each of us and the correctness of the rest of our colleagues. Now my colleague Anna Lovrin told me you reported a replica to me and you didn't replicate what was true to me. Thank you very much. The next club is the HDSSB representative club and respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28619	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the law in the first reading of the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law. First of all, there is a need for this law to be modernised, to bring this law into line with the times and situations in which the High Criminal Court was firstly found, and to achieve the effect of the Violent Law, which is to sanction those who break the law. So far, the existing 2007 legislation has proved not to be effective enough because a large number of cases have been overly burdened by the High Violent Court so that the number of cases is around 60000 with a growth trend of 10 to 12000 in 2012. So, in this year too, this trend of unsettled cases would be huge, which is not good for the efficiency of the Croatian judiciary, is not good for parties in the process, and it is not good for justice and justice as a whole. What we think is good, in our opinion, of the HDSSB Representatives Club, is that what would be considered a violation under the existing law of the Institute of Insignificant Infringement is really some legal solutions and opinions so far, what is considered a violation in a given smaller or larger form really needs to be arranged. This will also relieve courts, as well as persons who have committed these minor crimes that have elements of the offence but are not in that area to endanger, therefore, the general social and legal order. This should indeed be regulated legally, and this will primarily contribute to the dispensation of courts, but it may introduce for these offenders some institute of warnings or warnings that the offence is no longer repeated. And that's good for us. These considerations shall be taken to ensure that two-thirds of the fines are paid in accordance with the judgment of the Criminal Court within the time limit laid down by the court's decision to be deemed to be paid in full. This may need to be considered until the second reading, because what is the purpose of then adopting a solution to a breach of the amount given if a person is considered to have paid a fine in full within that period. Well, then no one's gonna have to pay that fine in full by us, because then you pay 2/3 of the fine is thought to have paid the entire sentence. That may be a good intention, but I don't know how much she's in this case the decisions of the Criminal Courts question, because then why is giving up that full sentence if the time limit laid down by law is that the time limit to be paid is 2/3 of the penalty that it's okay, that there is no longer a obligation to pay the fine. So, we're not against it, but it's a little bit like that, I don't know if that provision is needed or if it can be improved. Maybe we should think about it together until the second reading. As regards the principles of the procedure, the principles of economics, the principles of opportunity, the principles of the application of the Institute of Mild Penalty, that is all that in this scope of the law in the first reading, and the second reading should really support our laws should be effective and aim to achieve the objective of the law, and that, without the necessary long-term delays in the procedure, it does not question the effectiveness of the judiciary, and thus the purpose and purpose of this law, as well as the other laws that this House has passed. It also provides for a division which falls within the law of law, which falls within criminal law. So you can't be tried by both procedures. It's also the solution to the law that's good. You also told the ministers that he was giving up this way and the possibility to limit any appeal to the court's decision by law. That's good. This is not to be considered, so it is absolutely absurd for anyone to make it impossible for them to complain in any of the proceedings and in this criminal procedure. As far as the possibility of forced payment is concerned, we've seen this with the IRS doesn't work. The possibility of maintaining the sentence by working for the greater good, then the punishment of the prison. There are problems, and the important thing is that there is a good basis to solve the problem. We therefore have the opportunity to improve this solution in this reading and in the second reading of the law. The aim of the law is certainly to sanction the offender of the law, so that the criminal and legal sanctioner of the one who violated the law of violation is sanctioned. I believe that these criminal acts, i.e. infractions, up to two thousand kunas, need to really make this flexibility to make legal decisions effective. As far as the register is concerned, it is also not quite clear what the register and the keeping of the register is, if it is not publicly available, what is the purpose and which are therefore the certificates or what are the documents which the person may request and the registration in this register that it has been recorded that it has committed an offence, that it has not paid the penalty that this certificate or document cannot be obtained. This should, above all, be legally clarified and seen for the very purpose of it. So, under the law, the instruments for forced payment are provided for, therefore, for instruments to be effectively done what we propose by law. We do not see the purpose of, which are confirmed, which are the ministries and how this will be closely monitored, how it will be able to get into that record and what it specifically means. This is definitely questionable and we need this here if the ministers can explain what it is about, which is the legislator's intensity when a solution like this is proposed. As for paying the fine on the spot in cash, I believe that this is about the most ridiculous, the lowest violations and the lowest amounts of punishment because it would be kind of stupid if it were some high-infringing penalties, that someone could pay it on the spot in cash. So it's probably about these minor offenses, what they say about excruciating misdemeanors. It is also good that it is our European obligation to comply with the practice of European courting and with EU directives. So that's what we've implemented in this bill, and that's what as a future EU member, and so we have to implement it, we have to support it. It is also good to extend the catalogue of special obligations provided for by the Criminal Law, giving up these safeguard control measures has proved ineffective and we agree that such measures should be expelled from the law. And this whole principle of proportionality, economics, opportunity, the principle of agreement between parties in the process is something that will lead first and foremost to the effectiveness of the Criminal Law, and thus to the effectiveness of the judiciary. And we, in the part that has talked before me about some of the misunderstandings about this law, should, until the second reading, be able to comment together and make this bill a good offense law that will serve the citizens of the Republic of Croatia first and foremost, so that, within the framework of the illegal legislation, those who have not committed more serious crimes, and that both the judiciary and the courts who will be relieved, therefore we support this inclusion of the 4 Infringing Court in Croatia to dissipate the High Criminal Court. First of all, for the purpose of efficiency, economics and thus the quality and the quality of the mistrial but also the general trial in the Republic of Croatia. These are all the laws that should first and foremost serve our citizens, and we are here to make these laws available to citizens, so if there is something good a legal proposal should be supported, and what we can do together we suggest that we consult on this together until the second reading. In this first reading, the HDSSB Club supports these fences, and we believe that by the second reading, this legal solution will be improved and thrown out what therefore left a trail of doubt. I believe the new Criminal Code will be much better than those before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28620	Thank you too, dear colleague. We're moving forward with a debate of individual representatives over 10 minutes. The first is the respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to discuss this item on the agenda. The next is Honorable Representative Damir Cain. He's not in the assembly, he's losing his right to debate on this subject. We have thus exhausted the list of registered clubs for discussion on this subject and the list of representatives. I'm calling upon the motionary's representative. Honorable Justice Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28621	Thank you very much. Here's just a few things that opened up during the debate. There was a mention of a supercharged prison, unfortunately a very inefficient institution now. We had a little over 1,000 in 2011, about 1500 last year. That's why we're introducing, expanding the ability to work for the greater good. Not only that, but the work for the common good is spreading because we don't want to favor only as some have implicated and imputed those who have money and others to go to prison. That's why we're introducing work for the common good. What I do, I thank for all the suggestions, but what may have gone one way in the debate, let's just say Mr. Shucker's IRS is now gone. I'm told by the presidents of the courts that they were sending a box to the IRS in his day and the same box is coming back unopened with these warrants. So why is that? I don't know, but I'm saying if we open those questions, we can talk about it. You're talking about half the punishment, whether it's this or that. Well, you know, in your day, the CARDS project was also in the ministry, and you've been recommended to introduce it. And it was introduced in Slovenia with phenomenal results. They're extremely happy with that. There's Germany, there's a whole series of countries. So I don't see why the question is now being raised about what exists in other countries, which we know exists, we got it, we talked about it, and now suddenly it turns out to be a problem. And that is a solution that has given very good solutions elsewhere. You're talking about who's got money in his pocket or not. Well, you know that's not regulated by this law. Normally, if the police introduce those charge machines, they'll be charged with a card. We put it here that it's possible with a payment. So it's not about those who have money in their pocket. I mean, it's all there. That replacement you're saying prison sentences, we can talk about whether working for general good is two hours, it's not, etc., but the minimum is six. So we don't send someone in two hours, so you know how much they spend and how much money they spend to send someone to work for the common good for two hours or send him to a super-jail prison for three days? That's why we put it on 2,000 kuna to make it a minimum of six days. So, that's some stuff. The register of fines, so there's a clear record of what's going on. We're all aware of the problems, primarily driving and traffic permits. So do we want people who do these crimes not to have to pay for a possible prison means nothing to them or doesn't mean what else they need to get the documents now? Well, they won't get those papers, they shouldn't get them. It is also a solution that exists in other countries. Public procurement, so everyone who participated here and here some and I participated, and today if you didn't pay the state I don't know and 10 kuna you can't participate in the procurement process. So what? Someone didn't pay 10 kunas of something else, a liability, and here they don't pay several thousand kunas of fines and we'll say it's okay. Well, that's the purpose of the register. The registry isn't a register of shame, he doesn't write anywhere, and he's not public. It's about networking. So when the MAP issues traffic permits or anything they check, fines are paid or not. And of course the one who didn't pay won't get it. It's a bill of law. Because it has to be paid. Those who don't pay and who don't get paid through other mechanisms so we don't want them in traffic. Why would they get it and maybe do another violation that knows what the consequences will be? Well, it's a way to eliminate them from traffic. But it all says so. I don't know why things like that are opening up right now. So the charge on the spot was mentioned. It exists and now, it's not a new mechanism. Today, a police officer tells you how much you pay and pay him. We've just prescribed another way and a certain mitigation here. So of course all remarks will be taken into account as we have so far. I thank you for everything, but I don't think we should put things like this into place that have nothing to do with the law and don't write in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28622	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We have a signed replica, a respected representative of Anna Lovrin. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28623	Mr. Minister, I don't know why you're angry. We're just commenting on the text of the bill, suggesting some solutions, we weren't angry, I was talking about the pillar of shame because Mrs. MP who spoke on behalf of the HNS Club said it was very good to put people on a pillar of shame, so we're going to increase payment, so she said, I commented on that statement. I agree that what the state prescribes under the law must be paid and that all measures must be introduced to achieve this, so does the serious state. That's exactly why I warned about the indeterminateness of the provision. You said you couldn't get a public procurement bill if you didn't pay the state what it was supposed to be, but it doesn't say public procurement, it says a public tender. The public tender is a tender for work, a tender for enrolment in study, a tender for scholarship not to list any possible public competitions, and so I warned that the law is not accurate and that I try to specify it until the second reading. Both in that and in other provisions. You told me angryly that the work of realising work for the general good cost. I agree, it costs a day in prison the same state. So now I don't know why 300 kuna is for prison day, and 300 kuna isn't enough for a day's work for the common good, it's only for two hours. That's exactly what I'm telling you. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28624	Is there a response to the replica? No, I don't. Thank you very much. We thus exhausted the list of reported and the list of persons reported for replication and discussion. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, first reading, PZE No. 226, the debate on the draft law is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I find that the proposed conclusion has been unanimously reached with 129 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28627	Thank you very much. So here is one of the laws that also applies to this previous law, actually most citizens, and all sooner or later, come into a situation that needs to be resolved in front of land-marked courts and in a land-based procedure at all. The current situation is such that objectively large shifts are made. We've had a situation where averages, I'm talking about averages now, cases have been solved for a few hundred days. We're on average for 34 days now. So I speak at national level. But of course what's one of the problems is that unfortunately we have courts where it's over a hundred or over two hundred days, we have fortunately those in which to solve the same day. So it's a picture of Croatia and it creates one legal uncertainty among citizens. Another thing that's also bad. The feudalization may be too difficult, but the fact is that we have a system in which a citizen is working, that there is no court that evens court practice in different areas can get a different solution to the same problem. It's also unacceptable. Historically, we all know it's the result of different regimes that have ruled in certain areas, but I think it's time that we finally establish our national regime, that we don't depend on the past as we have so far. So I said today we're on average 34 days, one of the objectives of this law, and through certain other measures that I'm going to talk about is to come to some 7 days, or so far, 60 thousand objects, we're going to narrow down to something more than 10 grand, which would mean some kind of weekly tide to solve so much. I say it's always about averages. It will be unfortunately those objects that may be more complicated, so something will last longer, but these are the averages. What we have through this law is the introduction of new certain institutes, some that exist, but unfortunately were not governed by the law. They were more governed by the custom and certain sublaws and we are going towards a level playing field and according to equating means of legal certainty and we are introducing assumptions for transition in a different way, meaning for full digitisation. First, the High Criminal Court exactly the difference I was saying, you today when you have any solution of the municipal court going to County, it can't come to the Supreme because they're not cases that come to the Supreme and you don't have a way of unifying court practice. I therefore foresee the introduction of a High Court of Land means a court that would balance judicial practice. Through this, we will increase the legal security of citizens and contribute to the same resolution of the same things, meaning in the country as a whole. The whole law is being passed and is linked to this to fully electronic bookkeeping. So now we have a parallel, what does that mean? This also means a national electronic land book, which means that in a perspective you can solve something that applies to another court or to another area. One of the things that we even have is double books somewhere. I think it's headed both to Korčula and somewhere else, to take it to two places. So that's the situation we have today. We're going to introduce a national land book, there's no reason for it to be as partial as it is now. This, here is also a framework for the future we are working on and you see that, for example, you can now follow your case in court where, where, in order to solve it, etc., there is an assumption that you will first be able to obtain certain excerpts so in one court for all other courts, so you won't have to travel without knowing from Osijek to Brac to get an excerpt for Brač but will be able to resolve it worse. But assumptions are being made for what we want, and that's also taking submissions in one place that doesn't necessarily have to be a court and then solving again the centralized gathering of these U.K. departments. So that's what's the future but where you create a legal framework for this. Institutes of the proper process for the renewal of land books shall be arranged. We all know that even in practice they differ, we edit and simplify them here. The Institutes of Delivery, you will see we approach it differently because we know that delivery is one of the problematic things throughout the process and that often it is actually needlessly delaying it. We're sending a message to the citizens that they're obliged to carry out the papers in the land book because it binds them. Too often one of the reasons for the bad condition, and we all know it, is that we allowed practice, not now, but over the decades, actually did not allow, but it encouraged the practice not to implement the contracts. And then you've got real estate traffic outside the land books. We here now prescribe that whoever doesn't do it in 60 days will pay a five-time fee. It's also tax-related, it's also important for the introduction of order. We can now talk about the implications that will have on these perhaps and contracts that are fictional in order to reach some real estate etc., no, let them be implemented and that is an obligation. We're setting up a different way and what we've been saying and in some other laws you'll see the same thing here means the judge, we want to do an exclusive part of the job, and we need to do the references as planned and now but we're expanding that and the court advisors. These are simple procedures. The judge has to keep an eye on it. That's what we're going through, and we're going through this remiss, so the judge is changing certain things right now, and we don't have to go complainingly up because it's absurd when you have to solve something, and it's not like I know what a mortgage or anything like that is supposed to be, and now, even though you're right, the judge can't change it, but he has to let it go on appeal, to the County Court and wait until he gets back. Now we change that, so now this process will end in a simpler way. That's what I say through an objection that becomes a fundamental legal.... I told you about the delivery, the electronic ZK... What's important here is we introduce both the possibility and the way it could be done to solve those cases where the land books were destroyed. We know that they have been destroyed in certain areas and that they are citizens living in total legal uncertainty even if they have no one to sue to resolve their situation. This is where the mechanism is introduced so that they can come to a solution to it. So where there are these charts they're turning into a land book, where there isn't going to be an RH, but then the RH is someone who can be sued not actually sad but in a peaceful procedure, a citizen then can come out of someone's right of ownership. Now he can't, there's no one to run towards, there's no one to turn to, there's no other side, and he can't register and he can't do anything about it. And we've got out of traffic all over the complex where it can't happen. What is also important to us, we facilitate temporary and permanent transfer of employees. I'm not talking about judges. This is important through individual projects, and we all know that in a particular area, there is a need to solve something that takes a short time. Why? Because there's some kind of big project coming up or the problems just got bigger. But according to the current solution, we were supposed to basically hire people permanently or take them for a certain amount of time, and then keep them as they were for years. Now we're making it easier to move temporarily get rid of the thing and people are working somewhere else. I have already spoken in this House we have tried this on the example of Makarska, which is being solved from Zagreb. People are appointed to a court in Makarska but they sit here and handle cases. That makes it easier here now. Next thing you know, we all know that we have a whole series of measurements we can't take in practice. We're introducing here the possibility of something that's happened so far but now through means we know what it's going to be, which is that local communities, local self-governments can be involved financially. We have demands from the field very much where people would like to contribute to getting rid of it sooner. So here we are now saying how it can be done. An agreement will be concluded, it is precisely prescribed in the law in which cases, with whom and how. What matters in all these cases is important to the general interest. So it's not and we don't want a situation where someone's gonna pay to get rid of his real estate, no. Real estate is being disposed of in the area of the entire Catastrian municipality means to everyone. We are also introducing options for partial resolution. We've had so far I don't know I think Senja's a good example, but well, you, in order to arrange Senj, you must also arrange Velebit because we have to edit the entire municipality at once. We are now introducing the possibility of partial resolution, precisely because somewhere there is an interest greater now not to wait for a total arrangement. It's all going to be a turn, but we need to act quickly because we're wasting our time waiting for that total. Not us, they lose citizens who can't exercise their rights. So these are the basics of this law. We expect that what I have said is more up-to-date and an increase in the legal certainty of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28628	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the representatives of the working bodies, the committees want to take part in the debate with their reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we go to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament first. It is now the club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28629	Thank you, Mr. President. The situation in land books and in the catastros are indeed radically changing in Croatia over the last few years. I remember when that reform started, I think that she was the Minister of Ms. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt who hardened here three months went by and everything was fine, of course nothing was wrong at that moment. However, procedures and the possibility of exercising rights in land books have really improved, primarily thanks to a more reasonable system, but then also to the computing of work and digitisation of data. But it should always be borne in mind that both computerisation and digitisation are not a solution in themselves. Computers are about as smart and valuable as the people who serve them. So if there is no system, if there are no educated people willing to work then computers can freely be excluded from the wall. For decades, the system has actually ignored citizens. I happened to have a chance to see the cadastrian books of a catastrian municipality in Kordun. The last entry inside was in German, about 917th, 918th. At the time, these bosses made sure that things were recorded in both the cadastre and the land books, and until then it seemed to be more or less. After 918, especially in those rural areas was mostly ruins. The property, the land was sold, bought by contracts that weren't signed anywhere in 2000 when we, which wasn't even important actually there from 1945 to '90, basically it didn't matter because nothing entrepreneurial or anything like that happened. If the state had to intervene then it intervened with the strength of the committee and it was resolved in a moment. '90s. We of course found ourselves in ruins and in unsettled property-legal relations which the main obstacle was actually to run an honest, law-based and smart business. The law combines the data of gruntovnica and cadastre, a prerequisite for normal business and a prerequisite for the functioning of the system. In fact, if the systems in the cataster and in the land books differ in the garter, it cannot function in any way. You may have a specific land to use, but you cannot carry out any financial or similar transaction if it is not in the land books. A great progress would be what the minister mentioned, a one-stop shop, so the possibility of handing over your request at any counter, anywhere in the country, and that things are decided, no matter what the field is, that things are decided centrally. Of course, it assumes central land books in electronic form and communication between these offices. ... These books are going to be in electronic form, I know that protection is huge, that there are systems of protection great, I know that there are back-up systems spare if something happens, but I also know that there are electromagnetic pulses that destroy databases, and we know that there are hackers that hack into all living things and the Pentagon. [[You don't understand.]] Those who break into the Pentagon don't believe that they can't break into our system, and that's why it's kind of scary to me that those giant bookies are not going to be anywhere anymore, that it's all going to be in some imaginary virtual space, in networks around us, and no paper anywhere. I'm a little scared of that. I'd be happy to be unconvinced, I'd be happy to accept the fact that it's absolutely safe, but I'm afraid so. The High Land and Book Court is established to level the practice which is good. Practice really differs radically, especially as the minister said in parts of Croatia that have different traditions. Practice in Zadar and practice in Karlovac, therefore with one Italian tradition and with one Austrian tradition is definitely different. We have to have our own practice, and that's why this body is good, to establish some common ground-book practices. Of course it's going to cost a new court, it's going to cost already for the organization, possibly new people, space, for I don't know what. And well, it should cost. It's a good job. What I might notice on behalf of the Labourist in the system is no money, money is saved in all ways. Okay. Here they are spent rationally, and whenever there is a need to spend on something rationally, the money is spent except for the working courts that we are from this pay phone I know that I personally have one, six times appealed to the establishment of working courts and my colleagues from the Croatian Labours are also not thinking about it, there is no money for it. For workers, there is flexibility of the labour market. It's a beautiful syntagma behind which we know what's hiding, and justice is obvious to others. Simple jobs are entrusted to land-book reference officers and court advisers, which is also good. Most of the jobs that take place on the garter are not so complicated that experienced judges have to do so. The judge has to supervise, the judge has to decide but he doesn't do the job because he has someone who can do it without a very expensive judge. Article 18(6) speaks of a decision concerning the appeal and the appeal and the law, the draft law states that this decision applies directly. So, without further ado, without further ado. I don't know if this means that a person, an interested person, won't even get notice that the complaint or objection has been adopted. I don't understand how it's going to work to apply this thing directly, so I'd like to ask the minister to either answer it or to come up with a different formulation in a law that would be clearer to the layman. State database, this central state book is a prerequisite for successful investment. It is not true that investments in Croatia do not come from outside, because Croatian labour is too expensive, because workers have huge rights. If they had such rights, eight hundred of them wouldn't be out of work every day. That's just not true. It is true that investments mostly do not come because of the messy legal situation in Croatia. This could be a step if it is achieved by the end of the settlement of at least one segment which, of course, is extremely important for entrepreneurs to come to a clean situation that they can see in one place. They do not have to travel to places of god behind their feet to get some information, but I can get it in one place in Croatia I suppose a central register in Zagreb. That's how it's gonna end up when it's all taken care of and everything works out. You'll know who the owners are in the land books, you'll know we've seen from the previous hearing who's been punished. They'll know we've published a list of defense attorneys who was the defense attorney. I guess you'll know who's abolished. I guess that list's coming together, too, I hear. It'll all come out. The only thing we won't know is what this country has? A list of state assets can't be made. It's been going on for God's sake, ask you how many years. It'll probably take that long or a little longer. And even less is known what the state intends to do with what it has. The state property management strategy isn't even trying to be built. The government definitely turned that down. We make parts of the functioning of the state extremely transparent which is good and what is in the spirit of some smart world tradition, and what is most important to us, which should be the most important thing we have and what we do with it. It's not there. Nobody knows, nobody does, and actually, you could say almost nobody cares. But let me go back to this law. This law was made with good intentions. It seems to me as much as I can judge with good solutions and how much this is achieved in a relatively fast time, we will have a much better situation in land books in Croatia and Croatian Labourists will support this Law in their first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28630	Thank you. Thank you. To this replicating exhibition rises dear colleague Anna Lovrin. You didn't sign up? I'm sorry, but then they told me wrong. Drazen Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28631	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. I would refer to, therefore, your observation of the introduction of information into the land-book system. You've expressed your skepticism, concern and fear. I can kind of understand your fear of it, but I don't think he's justified. There are many and more complex systems that are already using a fully informed business system because some banks that have billions, billions of capital, are more certain not to use a paper trail of each transaction. So I believe that technical standards are being reached to remove these possibilities of destroying such data almost entirely. I got up with this because I worked at the City Administration where I testified that the fear that I had experienced in some way was better, more efficient management business and, in some ways, allowed certain things to continue to be introduced into... a form that allows abuse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's just say now in the land books, someone could have destroyed a particular document on purpose, possibly by accident, and done some damage. Here we will now be ensured by such abuses that some documents disappear, and I would like such a way of doing business to be applied to administrative procedures and to avoid the possibility of some administrative items with sensitive data disappearing. So, to be destroyed because they were run in paper form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28632	The replica corresponds to a respected colleague, Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28633	Thank you. My dear colleague, I'm much older than you and probably more conservative about that. The fact is, it scares me when there's no paper. In this electronic revolution is there somewhere in the mid-'80s more or less I've been able to figure it out and I've seen the systems progress, so when they've made progress, then it's only seen how far that system has actually been rupees and dangerous. I didn't say, I didn't think the system was going to crash, that someone was going to steal it, but it seems rational to me that in the back up system we have at least for some basic documents and papers. It seems rational to me, it seems safer than having an electronic system and back up the electronic system. I think we might have some insubordination. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28634	We continue to discuss clubs. The position of the SDSS club will be expressed by a respected colleague of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28635	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary with his associates. For us at the SDSS Club, this is a very important topic, it is truly professional in its topic, and by the very character of the debate it should primarily be a professional topic. We appreciate the proposal's efforts to address this problem, we have some kind of stronger interest because it exists here, I will later in the debate point to a series of examples of life, our particular category of Croatia's citizens and because of its refugee status is in an unfavourable position because the mass of documents that are the foundation of ownership and today is inaccessible. So gone, destroyed, etc. But we're good, sometimes in college, they teach us that we own the foundation of acquisition and the fashion of acquisition. So the method of acquisition means the way to acquire ownership is to enroll in the garnery of the land book. This is why the basic postulate and because of the principle of public and trust in the truthfulness of enrollment in land books, we think that this is a very important even important topic for ownership relations. Because, in our opinion, modern societies, and I think that this is a general opinion of all, requires certain trust and security in public books, and also in land books, looking for certain regulated ownership relations and a clear and clean one ownership environment when we are talking more and more about some kind of investment arrangements, etc. Then we'll see that because of this crummy-owned ambience in certain areas, this very investment climate, or investment intensity, can't liven up. The reform of land books in the Republic of Croatia has been carried out in several projects and for many years. Work on the project to establish a common information system has been going on since 2007 with the support of the World Bank loan. This project was preceded by a project to update and arrange land books and catastras, and the project was conducted for 10 years with the loan of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, where 617 million kuna has been spent so far, and the facts of 336 Catastrian municipalities, i.e. only 5.5% of the area of the Republic of Croatia, have been arranged by this project. Otherwise, there are about 3 350 catastrian municipalities in the Republic of Croatia in total, and for 219 there are no land books while for 64 catastrian municipalities the restoration or establishment is currently under way. We think this bill is going to settle a certain matter. So, expectations are that a truly unique system of registering real estate that combines data from land books and catastras, introduces what we have so far spoken about electronic land-booking, introduces the High Land and Book Court of the Republic of Croatia which would decide in complaints in land-book cases as a first-degree body that we think is very good. The power is also given to handle land-book cases independently to authorised land-bookers and court advisers, and therefore we believe that the resolution of the case will be speeded up. So, there's going to be some updates. The creation and addition of land books is also arranged, which is very important for us and, of course, the land-book commissioner is also introduced as one for us as a very good model. So these are the reasons why we think this job is on the right track and that is why we will mostly propose and support it. In order to try to help solve all this I need to look at a few things that point to the other side of this whole situation to something that is even... So far, so long. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, in the context of Article 36, the establishment and renewal of land books. I must say that the absence of land books in the area of mountain Kotar, in the municipality court in Ogulin, for 17 floors of Serb municipalities, Dubrava, Drežnica, Plaški, Saborsko, Ogulin, Jasenak land books were placed outside you know 95 more. Years and years since then, he's been stopped by the fact that there are no land books active. Economic development has been halted, the interest in investing in this area to a new cadastrian measurement and the restoration of land transport books is carried out through land cardboard and we have a number of examples, so practical examples where people from that space have come and complained. I just can't get into any financial individual engagement with banks, with institutions, because I can't prove my property on my property. The digitisation carried out did not solve the main problem, the non-compliance of land books with the real state because digital forms, data that do not reflect the situation on the ground were transferred to digital formats. The process of harmonising cadastars and land books has led to a new absurdity so that we have a situation on the ground that many farmers, I am talking here about the facts that are available to us, so it turns out that they are members of the Serb national minority and are mostly in the areas of northern Dalmatia, Korduna, Banije, Like and the hinterland of Zadar have lost most of the agricultural land and forests that the Republic of Croatia has entered in the land books. We note that the land that has been inherited for generations has been available to humans for over two hundred years. It is true that owners are obliged to regulate their property rights, but we have no need to lose sight of the fact that it is, that the population is mostly from that area that has been talked about, and that they do not have information about the Justice Ministry project, nor does it touch the call to settle their ownership rights. Those who are returnees have another dimension, which is that social category. So these costs that are now being re-imposed to them are very high costs. Locals of several villages, consisting of the town of Nina municipality of Vrsi, i.e. the owners of the land from the Catastrian municipalities of Poljica, Briga and Gerava without their knowledge and warning, were registered the right of ownership in favour of the Republic of Croatia. The same examples were recorded in the catastrian municipality of Glina, Gornja Cave and Donja Selište. We are here to warn about the application of Article 43 which speaks only in the first paragraph if it is not possible to determine the owner will be entered as owner or co-owner of cadastrian particles. We say that on this topic we talked to the relevant people in DORH, drew attention to this matter, and the DORH remained bound as an institution, not to mention the names that in enrolling changes in the land record when it comes to the Republic of Croatia's books give themselves the obligation of previous catastra checks to establish the status of the property, so that's what they should do to you. It's kind of their promise to this article 43. And for some constructive intent, I'm warning you of these things. I will say one more thing, therefore, in a particular area of the land book has not been arranged since World War II, so we point out the example of the return village of Otišić municipality of Vrlik, which, due to the same, had a difficult or slow rebuilding of houses. It's a special problem. The renovation was carried out without the necessary documents. It is now questionable how these renovated houses will be legalized or entered into their ownership rights when we know that it is one poor category of population, so not only do they not have documents but they have now been restored to their ruined homes, they must be legalised again and all the costs of books and enrolment fall on them. So that's something that we think can be arranged differently and better, that society should sort it out differently. I reiterated these examples because we want to contribute to a better solution to this problem, and we think that we can be satisfied with this legislative proposal solution, as proposed by the Proposer in this reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28636	Thank you very much. The SDP Club's position will be presented by a respected colleague Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28637	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. So land books have been established in the territory of Croatia still based on the Austro-Hungarian OGZ, the general civil code, the provisions of the grant order since 1855 and the Law on Land Books, and other land regulations of 1931. During that time, the system of land books was extremely well-organized and guided. So who ever saw those books? It's in the garret shop... in this area, the efficiency of the state and court apparatus half 19. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For centuries. The biggest cause of today’s problems is the fact that after World War II, real property rights were not recorded in land books. At that time, the book of changes to social property did not significantly alter the real situation and often all changes in terms of real estate were not even recorded. It is clear that in time there has been a discrepancy with real conditions with land books and has become bigger and bigger and it has come to the construction of entire settlements and roads that were formed on these cadastrian particles, they have often had no connection either on the surface or on the shape of what was on them. So far, efforts to reform this land-book law have yielded certain fruits, and these proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Land Books, which the SDP club supports, I would say a continuation of this reform aimed at more efficient data-recording recorded in the land-books. The importance of editing land books is extremely important for a number of reasons. In the first instance, there is almost no investment of any public or private sector that can be realised without first resolving property law relations related to the real estate on which the investment is planned. The regulation of land books is a condition without which it cannot, if I want to increase competitiveness in attracting investment or if we want to speed up the realisation of certain projects at all. Of course, the issue of land books is of utmost importance to the citizens. It is exceptional to protect your property over real estate if it is out-of-book ownership or to exercise certain contents of that right. Unsettled land books make it difficult to achieve the right to build, threaten Croatia's competitiveness, cause legal uncertainty, prevent efficient real estate traffic and increase the potential for abuse. Despite previous attempts at reforming land law and efforts and resources made to bring land-based books together, the situation in the segment is not yet satisfactory. Therefore, further reform is indicated as necessary and necessary. The most significant changes relate to several areas, primarily to the introduction of a high-level land-based court institution, and to nationalisation and increasing the flexibility of the work of courts and the organisation of the work of officials who handle these cases already being discussed by the minister. A high level of inequality of judicial practice could be observed in the work of the land-marked departments of the courts so far. This led to legal uncertainty and reduced efficiency of case resolution. That's how it is, for example. different interpretations of the construction rules to be delivered to the land-marked court in order to enroll the right of ownership in the real estate, e.g. houses or flats have led to unequal practices in certain land-marked courts. Unequal interpretation of the rules by different land-based departments of courts has led to legal uncertainty, difficulty in real estate traffic and left negative consequences on the economy itself. Therefore, it is necessary to welcome the introduction of this appeal by a high level of land law in order to bring practice into line by a highly specialised court. The second most significant change relates to the full transition to the land book management system in electronic form. And in the previous versions, the intention was obvious to go into as much digitisation and information as possible of the land-book system, and this time I commend went a step further. These proposed amendments finally allow the entry into the land register to be made on the basis of an electronic document and that the application for registration can be submitted by electronic means. All of this we predict will significantly speed up and facilitate the process. This means, in particular, that at all times almost every place, contracts can be concluded and property recorded, without having to break the thresholds of land-based offices, lose all days of travel and waiting in rows, savings and time and money are large solutions like this. The direction in which the land-marking information process has taken place here should also be a guideline in other areas. Furthermore, a series of amendments aimed at rationalising and increasing the efficiency of the work of land-based departments have been made. This expands the circle of people who are authorized to make a decision in the land-marking process, and this can now be done by judicial advisers, which is of course logical because it is about persons who have completed the Law School and passed a judicial exam. The delivery provisions appear to be more efficient and also allow for the use of digital media and delivery. But to the greatest extent, it seems to me that the rationalization made in terms of... the court's authority which logically referred to the practice so far in which the proceedings and the greater burden of the courts were delayed than it would be according to the model that is now being proposed. So far, the parties have been able to face a real wall that they couldn't skip because they just didn't know what to do. This model is far better, and even though it will contribute to a lower burden on secondary courts, they will be more protected by the parties themselves. I'd say it's here and protected to a certain extent and the principle of protection... the parties should now be given what is clear instructions in which their submission was messy and what should further be done to resolve their case to their satisfaction. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the quick reading.]] Even some parties who have had certain legal knowledge in the present system have been prevented from exercising their rights because of this ignorance of what is really wrong and what should be done to enroll certain rights. Further rationalisation of contributions and efficiency is that each land-based court will be able to issue an excerpt regardless of where in the territory of the Republic of Croatia real estate is located and even public notebooks and... legal persons who have public authority to do so. This will immeasurably strengthen the process and mean savings and time and money for both the state and the parties. I believe that technical opportunities will allow even a certain step further. But I will talk about it in an individual discussion as my own personal proposal and because of the limitations of time. Further logical changes have been made in Article 179, which allows for the gradual establishment of a land-based book, motivated by the observed difficulties in practice in the establishment, renewal and addition of land-based books containing a number of cadastrian particles. This proposal for amendments and additions also accepted the law to include and good practice which has been observed in certain courts, such as the provision that the land registering court may be appointed by one or more court commissioners with well-known local opportunities. This is a good example of good flexibility and life-forming, I would say in the legal text that should certainly be welcomed. Significantly greater flexibility has been achieved through changes and additions to the renovation and addition of the land book. As extremely important, I would like to assess the introduction of changes in the regulation regarding the individual... procedure. That procedure has so far been said I would have been subjected to different court proceedings in this procedure one of the most obvious examples of different case-laws that led to, and I would say even a completely different application of law by different courts. This naturally led to a high level of legal uncertainty. Some courts carried out effective correct procedures and made a significant contribution to the state of play in land books, facilitating real estate traffic and the exercise of property rights. The correct procedure is an extremely powerful tool, which unfortunately many courts in the Republic of Croatia have hardly used at all because it was not a good practice for me. I, for example, was a mid-term trainee at the Municipal Court in Sesveda where this institute was used and where it achieved significant results and certainly hopes that these changes will contribute to the greater use of this tool. And with regard to these provisions, there may be some remarks that I will also make in an individual debate. In conclusion, I consider this proposal to be a significant step towards addressing the land-book situation as an acceleration towards the rationality and efficiency of the land-booking process. We believe that this law will make a significant contribution to making citizens' rights easier, strengthening Croatia's competitiveness, removing legal uncertainty and making real estate transport far more efficient and faster. This is a basic condition for almost every economic activity and for facilitating investment, both social and private. We welcome the fact that this law goes into two readings so that all proposals can be considered to get the best possible solutions on this extremely important matter. For this reason, I repeat, the SDP club supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28638	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on this exhibit. First honorary colleague Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28639	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Pandek, here I agree with you that indeed a major shift has been made in terms of land law and procedures in Croatia, of course, and that it should continue to persist and amendments to the law in order to continue to do so effectively. But you mentioned it the same way, and we all know that just since '45. The year until '90. The majority of citizens did not implement, registered changes in ownership in land books, of course not because it was their will but rather because they were such regulations. So you know that nationalizations, that the land was built within cities, were nationalized by the decision, so by law, that it was forbidden to traffic such land and the rights of use that the previous owners had on those land, but that the traffic was actually happening, and then it was a common syntagma that everyone used and recognised, and it was called outside of the book property. It's about rock iron. So we all know that the right to property on the property requires a modus and title, so legal and public or private law and registration in the land-book register. However, all further proceedings were then recognised as evidence of both building permit and all construction documents, etc. Which put this aside, and the other reason was the sales tax of real estate, which was up to 45% in certain periods, and you had to bring in a tax certificate to enroll in the garnery and people simply didn't implement those contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28640	Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28641	We came to this state in the '90s, and I mean that many other countries, richer, have spent decades of these procedures and arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28642	The replica matches the esteemed colleague Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28643	Thank you. Of course, these are some reasons for the unsettled state, but they are even deeper, perhaps even going to the point where there may be reasons in our particular mentality. Unfortunately, today we face situations that especially in some rural areas, the transfer of real estate that is not legally valid by simple agreement will be mine, this one of yours. This one reflection of this mentality is unfortunately that many houses have worked without permission, regardless of whether the land-booked state has been arranged since the '90s. in here, even in the '90s because... we had this kind of illegal building of houses and the availability of properties that were not in accordance with the law, and that was even after the '90s, so we have the causes of the current disorder in the land books. It's the kind of situation that is. I think that these renewal proposals, the additions of land books, will help to better fix the land-book situation that will probably not be solved for a while, but obviously this is a good way to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28644	The replica also brings up a respected colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28645	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Pandek, I agree with your presentation in the section that you confirm that the records of the catastra and the land books are one of the most important state records, that it is good and that you support that further digitisation and information is made available to citizens through digitalisation and information. But we will do so by this law and by all actions, but we will only allow citizens to come up with a faster, simpler, or easier way of saying bad information, and this bad information is an unsettled land book and an unsettled land cadastre or a cadastre of real estate when it is established. In order to make it possible for citizens through this law in a simpler and easier way to get to the good data, it is necessary to systematically approach the state scale and create a catalogue of real estate and new land books. I am therefore surprised that the government is going with this law and it is to be welcomed, but at the same time the State and Geodetic Administration, which should carry out the work on making a new state measure, reduces the funding in the state budget by 8%. For example, only for the production and restoration of catastras in the Neretva valley is 32% lower. On Croatian islands for the production of new state measurements, the production of a real estate cadastre decreases by 50%. The national programme for the establishment of a land particle identification system by 53% has been reduced. The maintenance of land cadastre and the establishment of a real estate catastra by 28% and the management and maintenance of a common information system of land and catastra by 21%. So, what I'm saying. With the normative arrangement, we will contribute to doing this, but on the other hand, by cutting resources, we will prevent a systematic measurement which is the only solution for providing the best service to citizens when it comes to their property, their property.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28646	The replica matches the esteemed colleague Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28647	Thank you. So there's an old saying that says that a man is covering his debt. So in these things, obviously, we have to go to the most rational solutions possible. We need to look forward, no matter what we don't have in all areas of the possibility of taking a quantum step forward immediately. For example, here's the situation in the Sesvets. There were reconstructions of several land-booked municipalities. It went essentially with the priorities that are the evaluations, which is more important to rebuild. It was done very well and efficiently. There is no reason to stop with all of this because we have not yet completed the cadastrian measurement, and I believe that despite the reduction of funds, we are not going to have to stop until the end, but obviously we will have to gradually, gradually speed up and improve the situation in this area as well. But I believe that this law should not stand because of the situation that certain financial resources do not allow accelerated work, for example on the measurement of property catastra in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28648	The time reserved for the HDSSB club will be shared by colleagues Igor Češek and Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28649	Honorable Vice President, Honored Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I am pleased that this proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Land Books goes into two readings because I believe that the profession will be able to reach certain conclusions and that the minister will respect the word of the profession, although I would be happier to have this law, that it be a completely new law, because this proposal shows extensive changes. Any bill that we believe can promote a more favourable investment environment, and help citizens to manage as easily as possible and get out of the entrenched network of bureaucracy as soon as possible, we will in HDSSB and support it because we believe that this is why we are here in this House so that we can do everything in our power that investors do not turn their backs on investments in Croatia, and we know that they are bypassing us in a big port. So the economy minister admits that no one in their right mind wants to invest in the Republic of Croatia. It should also be one of the main objectives for us to pass laws that will make it easier for citizens to deal with their affairs related to state red tape because it is clear to all of us what a nightmare it is to fall into a network of legal breakdowns and walking from office to office, from court to court because of a seemingly simple document. Compensation of land books, harmonisation of the cadastrian situation with the land-based state-of-the-art and more efficient work of the grantovnica must be a priority in judicial reform and the assumption of a more efficient functioning of the economy as well as of the state administration. Legal effects of enrolment in the land book are of exceptional importance for citizens and legal persons including the state because it enables them to protect, achieve, change and cease real rights and to publish and protect trust in legal traffic. The Institute of Land Books in the Republic of Croatia has been old since the time of Austria-Hungarian, and only a few years ago has experienced a positive shift, according to the motionary himself since the time in which the citizens waited for days only for the submission of submission of submission or insight into land books, and for the solution in the book it waited for several years. Today all land-booked data are transmitted in digital form and every available via the Internet. So certain shifts are visible and that's for every praise. In his explanation and I personally agree, the minister points out the need for new access to the land-book system legal framework based on new IT technologies with the aim of creating a modern and transparent land-book register base. Electronic application, electronic solutions, file and digital archives create new possibilities for rationalising the network of land-book courts both in the first degree and in the appeal procedures. It is also proposed to amend the part of the Land and Book Act, which introduces a common information system and a land database. The land data base of the Republic of Croatia is an organisational and technologically pooled set of data at the national level, consisting of a land-based paper led by electronic data processing and a real estate cadastrian data-handled digital cadastral plan with relevant cadastrian data. And all of this here is supported by what the minister wrote in an explanation, however, an assessment of the necessary means to enforce the law. You did not mention that the implementation of the law does not require the provision of additional resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, it says that the proposed Institute of Digital Archives and Land Books Scanning as an electronic business of land and book courts is financed through defined World Bank loan projects for the renewal and development and donation of the European Commission. So it's some kind of loan after all. If that loan brings any entrepreneur to the Republic of Croatia, then that loan will certainly be justified and we will certainly support it. The problem is extensively related to land books, tied to the grantovnica, bound to the cadastre. One of the problems is the purchase of land based on the ownership list. Such a contract may only be implemented through a land book if the contract details fully agree with the real estate data and the owner of the land book. But it's a very common case to, for example. Real estate purchases according to the condition of the land cadastre or some previously drawn up public or private documents, and after that the purchase contract cannot be implemented in the land book. It is possible that the owner and owner of the particle are different persons or that land data may vary in the number of particles or land surfaces. In view of the fact that the proceedings before the Land Book Court are strictly formal, and the court is obliged to ensure that the real estate data and the owner that are entered in the contract are identical to those contained in the Land Book, so it is possible to distinguish such data from the request for the registration of ownership under such a contract to be rejected. So it's one of the problems that occurs in the Republic of Croatia and the citizens have felt it on their skin. Ministers must be encouraged to correct such a system as soon as possible so that citizens can purchase their property legally and enroll in land-booking. And yet my remark is that, unfortunately, on the basis of an excerpt from the official website of the Justice Department, it is not yet prescribed that such information has the evidence power of a public document. So, and this is the proposal precisely because of this digitisation to go that such a document has legal validity. Ministers, I've listed several problems related to the Land and Book Act, and I hope you can solve all these problems. But something more about a land-book problem will be said by my colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28650	The debate on behalf of the club continues, a respected colleague, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28651	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Here is what my colleague said we will support this law, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on Land Books, but here I, on behalf of the club, want to warn about a series of things that happen in everyday life, which are not only burdened citizens of the Republic of Croatia but also all units of local self-government, regional self-government and even the state itself. There is one practical thing about implementation, i.e. not conducting a state geodetic measurement. I recall that several years ago, for this purpose, it was raised on several occasions and the World Bank's credit for state measure, that many were signed for geodetic measurement, that many contracts between the State Geodetic Authority, regional self-government units of local self-government, were signed, so that in the course of the implementation of these contracts, the state itself was practically turned and instead of the measurements that were to go through certain catastrian municipalities that would cover the entire land in the whole of the country was determined for. Some units of local self-government did not accept it there, especially those with strong local self-government leaders such as Djakovo, so they did not accept it, but demanded the implementation of the whole contract and did not accept that it was only going to measure state agricultural land in which the programmes themselves did not invest the funds but was transferred through the Geodetic Authority 40% in these total contracts. And local and regional self-government dropped 30%. The next problem that arises here, therefore, even after such measurements for lack of funds, in order to lack the structure that would enable the implementation of the Geodesy Administration and the enrollment of land books and many crossings have not been implemented. Similarly to the statistical processing of the last census with all those elements because we witnessed that a series and one large majority of the materials had failed in certain wet rooms. In any case, it doesn't have to be particularly smart or bright here, all those who go to the garter or to the cadastre know that in many environments, I'm going to rule out all those rows now, giving those numbers, etc., but that the biggest problem is precisely the discrepancies of the catastrophe and the garland. And normally, a country that wants not only to be in the EU but which wants to attract certain investments must understand that it is one of the greatest priorities that lies ahead of this government, but also before this Parliament. So it's particularly surprising that here after not one of these laws that really goes I wouldn't say a step but a step forward is reducing the resources in the state budget precisely for those measures that should follow not only this law but which should have followed before this law, and this primarily refers to the overall geodetic measurement procedure of all the catastrian municipalities that have not been implemented and in many catastrians and grants you still have and all of them have to be aware of the data but still no one will be angry from the time of the Austrian-Hungarian Maria Teresa what the Turks as conquerors left in these areas and on the basis of these data and should not be seen as just conquerors but they had regulated land books based on which the tax was 10%, they had no VAT of 25%, such as this government, or this Coalition. One of the following problems that arises, and it especially arises, and even when the state has certain investments, I'm not talking about a regional, local self-government that we still don't have an efficient system, I don't mean that socialist-Communist or communist-Socialist system of authority from certain particles. We had this case and the highways, we had a case with a series of other investments. I believe that there is a need to work on a law that will define what is general, which is social interest and thus provide a fair market fee for those who practically cannot and in a certain way prevent long-term court proceedings, which was not the case in certain procedures where highways are prevented practically and certain investments. One of the following is immediately related to this new Law on Legalisation of Objects, this is also the price of extracts, so all of those services that you receive either in the garter or in the cataster but also geodetic services where these prices, the measurements of certain particles exceed several times the monthly salary of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. So what I certainly appeal to is that already in the budget rebalancing practically all of these items without which it will not be possible to implement the quality of the entire programme and the geodetic measurement system and what we are certainly up to, and especially because we have seen certain things that often electronic records are not safe enough because hackers are also entering the Pentagon, I do not believe that given our protection and security systems I appeal to that, in addition to the electronic form, this is being conducted and in the usual way because very quickly they could be left without all possible records. Here I hope that this law, but also the system of measurements, will help us to have fewer of these statements from Croatian ministers as follows, and probably man had in mind the lack of geodetic measurement. No one will normally invest or live in this country, no one normal will be treated in Croatian hospitals because they are probably not listed either, many are still oracies. No one will normally send children to Croatian schools because many schools are probably not enrolled. And says another minister no one normal will seek justice in Croatian courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28652	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Dear Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28653	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Vinkovic, you mentioned that a few years ago certain works that are being carried out at the moment have been made possible by the World Bank's loans, which are the harmonisation of data and information and catasters and land books. In order to make good thorough work, great resources are needed. These are really work that are expensive, which consists of examples of changes in the field, exposure, etc., etc. You also mentioned the legal process of illegally built buildings, and I must say that the law of 2011. For years, therefore, the first law meant that the fee collected and the revenue of the state budget for the retention of a particular building, the building in the space was also a third for funds that would allow for a new state measure from... Real estate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it wasn't small funds. In particular, they are significant at a time when there is no funding in the state budget. So, I then and in the debate suggested that this new law that goes towards curtailing illegally built buildings, part of the funds that the state collects are just intended for a new cadastrian or new measure in the Republic of Croatia because we are witnessing that there are no funds in the state budget enough to speed up this process, and I am surprised that the state of these funds that are, which are harvesting for the law of these buildings, are not used for the purpose. Because in large part, the culprit, such a large number of unbuilt, illegal buildings without a building permit, is the fact that we have an unsettled cadastre and a land book, and while people organize property law on all parcels practically give up and then go into illegal construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28654	The replica corresponds to the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28655	Well, the World Bank loan wasn't just spent on the State Geodetic Measure, it was spent on other things, but on that. Those who were then in the government of the Republic of Croatia certainly know that. But I just want to point out the current problem where many units of local self-government, given the drop in resources in the budget of units of local self-government, which is because of the increase in unemployment, which due to practically economic inactivity, the lack of investment is just struggling to continue this programme if it is possible for me to agree with you, is not about small funds. And it is precisely the state that has to find a way to finance that Mary Teresa or this Sulejman that they asked citizens to measure their property would never provide tax, and here soon will be the real estate tax, it will not be Suljemanov but will be Linicov. I just don't know how they're going to charge when it's not even in the grantshop and in the catastro where you might have a family house of 100 owners because many buildings didn't get or used, they were probably built without a building permit. And as far as legalization is concerned, I think everyone here and I've been saying it on the board and at the debate that we all need to make it clear and loud, there are no concessions in legalization. So you can save what was prevented in local self-government units where you have state buildings to which you will not be paid that tax, which have been illegally made, etc., while many citizens have been brought into an unfavourable situation. But even the builders must understand I end up with no citizens of double order, so there are those who have paid their dues and those who will now be forgiven. [[Intruder: Time.]] That state must also find a way to finance these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28656	Two notices. First, in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure at 12.26 hours have expired time to apply for an individual debate of 10 minutes. Another announcement, the chairman of the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, respected counterpart Dragica Zgrebec, vice-president of the House, informs that the 12th session of the EU Regional Development and Fund Committee will be held today at 14pm in the Eugen Quaternik hall on 31 January. Now we're going to continue the club debate. In the name of the HNS club, a respected representative, Petar Baranovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28657	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is finally one law that is truly important without causing the controversy of the nature that would not finally be acceptable in such an important institution as the Croatian Parliament and which is held at a level that can pass. It is very likely because we are aware that the intention of this law and content is appropriate and appropriate for the state's ambitions to settle and function normally. It is another novel of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books, which ultimately brings into place one generation after several generations to relatively quickly, efficiently, without excessive fatigue and at no extra cost to its land book, establish its property and finally start to manage land. Why am I saying that? I speak from experience not as a political person but as a citizen of the country as well as others who have some of their own life stories, so I met with this problem through my family's life, and finally when I came to the opportunity to sort out the legacy of my late mother, then I realized that most of the plots that my late grandfather or my late grandfather and his brothers who were long upon my own personal past were listed on the subject. And such a situation is largely present in Dalmatia but also in other parts of Croatia. Here are other colleagues, during the debate, pointed to problems when the theme is land books and catastres. After two projects have been implemented over the past ten years. One was a project to arrange land books from 2003 to 2010, and then the contract was signed in 2007 in the introduction of the law, then a contract was signed on the creation of a common information database, catasters and land books. Finally, we are in a position for people in this time of information technology to be able to perform almost all the important operations that concern both the entry into land books and the reporting of objects, obtaining information. We're getting into a situation and what's new in this law, which is that we have one place in the database of united data and land books and that digital cadastre. We come into a situation where those big books that are personal to me like a man who loves retro and has sympathy for it, very likable, and that squat still in the closets of some departments of landowners by municipal courts. For example, I had the opportunity to see what it looked like in my Sibenik and to realize that perhaps those officials should be given some kind of salary supplement because of the exposure to the hills because there is no book on which we base real estate information and everything else. With the addition of these new technologies, we are in a situation where the whole system becomes not only more efficient and rational but also has certain savings in the state budget. But it is immeasurable, more valuable that we provide citizens who are taxpayers, who pay taxes to have a more efficient and service state with a much better quality public service, bring them into a situation of greater legal certainty, put them in a situation that is much more communicative, much simpler, more efficient, cheaper, doing their own private jobs. Another newspaper that attracted my attention, which is the court’s electronic advertising board, so I will only briefly mention some cases very probably without mentioning names, but you know what I mean, in which this advertising panel was the trick in which serious crime took place, on which not only legal uncertainty was achieved but some citizens of the Republic of Croatia were also directly damaged, and this electronic advertising board that will be currently available to all interested citizens is actually another contribution to legal certainty and transparency of the work of public services. In any case, as a parliamentary representative, but also on behalf of the HNS Club, I welcome this newspaper. This law also provides for the downgrading of powers to court advisers and land-book reference powers to address cases that are accelerated between others and the handling of these cases, and puts the judge in a slightly higher position of solving complex cases. Of course, the seriousness of this law testifies to the fact that it is prescribed that these court advisers and land-bookers must have completed a pre-graduate study or administrative or law study which we also welcome. However, the details were discussed by colleagues and the intention itself, and the prescribed mechanisms of this law testify that this law is trying to track the time in which we live, the needs and that at least in this part of Croatia is trying to get out of the context of a country that is unfavourable for investment, which is difficult for entrepreneurs, capital, and every private initiative a matter of difficulty. We believe that the application of this law will improve the investment climate in Croatia, but above all, that it will provide much more quality public service to citizens who, unfortunately, today can and are entitled to be dissatisfied. In this part of the application of this law... the kind of service we deserve, the kind we want for them and not to be longer. One more thing I would like to point out, is that we are satisfied in the HNS that such a serious law and important law goes into two readings, and the profession that practically deals with this matter will have the opportunity to point to some details and give some corrections. The HNS Club in the first round absolutely supports both the intention and content of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28658	Thank you very much. And there's a respected colleague, Branko Bacic, on this line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28659	Well, here I would like to say to Mr. Vice President Baranovic that I agree with his presentation, except in the part where he says that this law will finally address the issue of ownership, the issue of editing the land book and the cataster of real estate. If this were the case with counterpart Baranovic, such a law would have been passed long before and before, and he would have solved the issue and land books and catastras. The basic work to be done is to make a new measure throughout Croatia, and it is a long-term job that Austria also spent 70 years, so somewhere there from the 1830th to the end of the 19th century. One Sweden has done this work for decades. We have measured only 3% of the territory in the Republic of Croatia for now and about 100 catastrian municipalities in the Republic of Croatia have a new cadastrian measurement and we can say that it has a new land book. This is a long-term process where both the Government and the Parliament must insist that this work be accelerated, that at least 20% of the land in Croatia be moved. It's urban environments, it's infrastructure corridors, so everything on which there's a need to invest, at least that part needs to be measured, that part should be measured and made a land book for that part. Therefore, this law is good, it should be commended that we are going to bring land books into line, that they are accessible to citizens primarily and legal persons, but what is important, metrically, we are not going to solve this law, we need to be aware of that. Because if you get information about the property of your particles in Sibenik or Zagreb or Osijek in five minutes, where we can get that information, we will not solve it significantly. That's what I think needs to be pointed out. So let us support that the government is going in this direction, but it is primarily necessary to provide funds for a new state measure, a new land book and a new cadastre in this remaining part of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28660	The replica corresponds to a respected colleague, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28661	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bačić, yes, you're probably right, I used a false term, a lapus lingue, as you might say. There is one thing I would not agree with except you, which is that it is our ambition to measure 20% of the land in Croatia. I would personally be satisfied only if things were to get in order, but I suppose you as a man of this profession seem to be a geodetic by profession, you can most likely more objectively assess the efficiency and efficiency of the system we have today. In that part, I would agree with you and support the initiative, i.e. put as one ambition before this honorable House and before the executive authority of the Republic of Croatia to speed up these procedures and activities to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28662	Thank you, too. Now is the time to hear the positions of the HDZ Club and the esteemed colleague Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28663	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this Law in its first reading as a further progress in the management of the land-based and catastrian state in Croatia and the integrity and transparency of property transport. Of course, somewhere it was said that this would now be settled by this law. I wish that were the case. The laws themselves written laws if no financial and personnel resources are provided for their implementation and the firm will that they are implemented does not mean anything. But here's because we have good experience so far that in this area the laws are implemented, so here we've heard that the first projects of taking care of land books and catastras began to seem to me in 2002, the third. The project was completed in 2010. We've heard that and some debates by parliamentarians who like to talk so casually that some who were in the former government then know that the funds from these projects have been spent on other things as well. It would be good for anyone who knows how to say it, but it's certainly naive to think that the World Bank loan or gift cards could be spent on something else that wasn't contracted. Who has ever worked in the implementation of these projects well knows that this is impossible theoretically and practically. So this project was worth about 50m euros. Indeed today we witness full transparency of the insight into the state of ownership in land books. We can monitor our land-book items every day, which is their status and where they are. We also bear witness to the increasing consistency of land-based and cadastrian data in certain parts of this harmonisation really and pro-mptically between cadastres and land books. Of course, we cannot be satisfied because it is not yet in all areas and therefore further improvements are being made and within the regulatory framework. I think this bill also contains several valuable solutions and proposals. I will say that first of all here I think of the regulation of the procedure of the renewal of land books, so because, by now, in this part of land-book law, it has happened that land-booked courts or grantshops as it is called here in certain courts were states in the state and there were not so many legally educated people were not enough to read the law and all the regulations but had to ask questions at all times about the practice of an individual land-booked department in order to be able to solve their case. Therefore, especially in the restoration of land books, given the different practices of individual land-based and book-based courts, and in the good practices of good courts where this was then seen to have been solved effectively and well and to the satisfaction of the owners in these areas. So, then these provisions were also incorporated into the legal text that indeed some judges and land-booked referents would not have to have the discomfort to actually do something that is not law-abiding and determined when the law is strictly read. So let me say it again. The regulation of the renewal of land books is uniformly in order for everyone to do the same, further development of the institute of the right procedure as a procedure that really needs to be applied to a wider extent are valuable changes in this amendment and supplementation proposal. Of course, further and complete digitization. Now we've come to this stage, so technology and equipment that we can really access complete digitisation. There were concerns about digitizing whether the data would disappear. If there's a hacker, will anyone break into that system? Well, many important systems are electronic. Of course, there are ways to fight it. Of course we all know there's going to be a backup system, but I'd say that the hacker under quotes was pretty much before the land books were in paper form, big land books. I was amazed, for example, when I first met with it that there was simply no single list in the land book, that it was torn out, so it's said so nothing, we'll restore it when it's established, and between that, I don't know what traffic was going on, etc. etc. So, the thief will always be. Effective systems need to be found to fight them. It is also a good provision for a clear distinction between the work of authorised land-book reference officers, advisers and judges. I particularly welcome it, and I am pleased that here the state will finally recognise a law that recognizes our first-in-commands in Bologna, because we have done systematicizations in the state services, so they have always prescribed a middle-boiling or high as if no one in this same country has arranged a higher education, or by the system that we have first-raters who should also find their place somewhere on the labour market. Well, I'm glad it seems to me to be happening right here. But also the court advisers who are now in force of the provisions on the full application of the Judicial School for Judges where no one can become a judge for the first time without having passed the Judicial School and since we have long said that there will be a large number of high-quality persons who know the job in the status of a judicial advisor that here is the law and they determine jobs. I would also look back and here's an explanation or some insurance for it, so it's certainly good delivery provisions that can't be avoided, that it has to be effective and that the subject has to be concluded. However, in view of the fact that a decision on the entry is delivered to the parties after implementation, and in relation to the person who is deleted from the enrolment, I ask if there are any indications, whether the indication or warning remains that the entry was made without being sent to the party which has been deleted which may be complained. Because it could happen that someone for a few months doesn't even know they've been wiped out, who knows how and on what grounds it's erased, who doesn't even know it and then file a complaint and that traffic can already take place. Because someone who believes in land books who has the right to trust that kind of land book doesn't doubt that there's anything wrong with that enrollment. Here, so I think there should be a warning about it. What we can't agree on, and I don't know what the billmaker's intention was, and that's the cost. Therefore, this Article 8 did not mention it, and it is determined that in land-booking procedures each party bears its own costs. A little bit of that sort of goes through the laws. Remember that we have recently changed the Law on Administrative Disputes where a provision has been introduced that each party bears its own costs, so I told the citizen to sue the state for not giving him his own right, the state loses the dispute, so the citizen must prove that he was right but must bear the costs of the lawyer who wrote the suit to him, etc. I think it's absolutely unfair. It is unfair even now that someone is conducting some kind of ground-book action against a person who has to invest some means to defend himself, etc., and if it is proved that the one who initiated the procedure was right to no one, but someone who caused nothing will have a cost and I don't know what the reason for it. On the other hand, I commend the absolute introduction of the objection and the remissory remedy. So, so far, you've had a situation that was equally unfair for the citizens where because of the court's error in a number, there was no way to correct it, but the citizen had to file a complaint. For that appeal he had expenses and if he succeeded in the dispute again to anyone because the state was not the other side, I think the court was not the other side and the citizen had expenses he could not charge from anyone. That is why we welcome the introduction of this objection as a remissor tool, where the court can see for itself when it sees a mistake and solves it. Similarly, we have a very good introduction of the High Land and Book Court in order to bring legal certainty into line with judicial practice. As I said, every grantovnica was a state in the country, so the county courts dealt differently, and the citizens of Croatia simply did not have the same legal position in every part of Croatia. That is why we believe that this is also good because of the uniform practice of the court, and also because of the specialisation of judges who will handle these most complex cases. Here, these are the reasons why in this first reading we will support this law as further progress in fixing the land-book situation. Indeed, this is a beautiful area in which we can be present from year to year and watch progress. We don't need to be discouraged as long as it takes, we said that both the more orderly countries and the richer countries have been taking care of their registers for tens of years, and I'm just going to remind that in our country of a situation that just happened in the '90s regardless of the OGZ Austrian, regardless of the legal rules that existed, I bought an apartment in '79. And then in the building of X-rated apartments that weren't, of course, it didn't occur to anyone at the time, it was probably a meadow, but I knew at the time that even under the legal rules I had the right to make a contract because it wasn't suitable for enrollment in the land book. So I came to the court to ask if I could make a deal, and my colleagues told me that what I was thinking was, where would they get to still have a book of contracts now that they're so barely able to sign up for this traffic. Well, maybe many don't know that the order to open books for contracts came only when the Law on the right to purchase dwellings on which there is a household law was passed, and then someone remembered that it became a critical mass of citizens who had collected the apartment unlike the few before that time, and then issued a warrant to the courts to open the book of contracted contracts, as I said, regardless of the legal rules and regulations that existed before. In order for that to not be the case, we welcome every effort to further improve in this window. Please pay attention to these costs because we think it is unfair to constantly impose certain laws on citizens innocents, so I want to say to those who are not at all guilty of the procedure and are practically not involved in it but are forced to participate in the fact that they have to bear those costs afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28664	Thank you. His desire to replicate this exhibition was expressed by counterpart Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28665	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's an esteemed colleague who doesn't have a lot of incompetence, enough like this to take and pool the World Bank's loan, the regional self-government funds, the funds of local self-government, and share it with the average price of measured and measured squares, and you'll see that there's something wrong, that much less measured squares than the funds that should have been invested in geodetic change. You may be looking at it from a legal or former minister's side, and you may be convinced that this loan has been spent all over the geodetic dimension. I'm telling you it's not. And that's an exact example, and today the first contracts that were signed that are somewhere out there at least most of those contracts, it's somewhere in early 2004. So far, most of these contracts, I'm not talking about those measurements that happened in 1996, which were not, unfortunately, implemented, where the funds went into the wind and these measurements are already out of date. So this year 2013 and a lot of land not only of the state, but of the land, you even had certain proposals that went back to the burden of local self-government to even involve citizens in this geodetic measurement, etc. So, take the data of the funds, the funds invested and what's measured, and you'll see neither Einstein would have the theory of relativity bring about if he had such geodetic space measurers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28666	In reply to the esteemed Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28667	Thank you very much. Well, you co-worker can do the math here, say whatever you want. If you have ever worked with the World Bank to realise the project that the World Bank and the CARDA project gave you, then I assure you that there will be no power that you have spent any euro or kuna for a purpose that has not been agreed on by that project. That's what I'm telling you, and it's certainly so because you'd be punished and the funds would be withdrawn and you'd never get them again, and I'm really not competent to engage with you right now in a debate how many feet of geodetic cost are measured so that I can share with that amount of this asset.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28668	The second replica, dear colleague of Gyurjitsumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28669	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Lovrin, you have touched in reality in this debate a really big problem, and these are apartments in buildings, especially in the city of Zagreb, I can say. There's a terrible problem, it's a long-term procedure and it's very expensive, because to get those basic documents that you need to get to the tabular one you need at least one 3,000 kuna, and I have to tell you the same thing I personally pulled out of the company's industry from an impeccable method without having to understand each other. For the rest of the day, if there's any small complications between you, you need to get a lawyer. I was hoping that maybe in this law or someone else they'd really consider themselves in some way, so let's just say someone's been living in an apartment for 30 years, paying for their directors, not having a mortgage that they don't have to look for on that apartment, and that they can simply type it in with some simple procedure on the basis of some other data other than gifts, and I don't know who they're not buying. That's one thing. And what I'm interested in, is that I know that these books that land books are very old, some of Maria Teresa, etc., but I'm really thinking about whether when it's going to be in electronic, can it happen that these data are simply lost and that somehow I have to say the same thing as my colleague that maybe I'm a little more conservative, so I think what's written is that it's going to be preserved regardless of what many books are burned and gone, etc., but here maybe there's a way of some protection system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28670	Thank you. Six colleagues and colleagues applied for an individual discussion, the first being Josip Kregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28671	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The desire to debate really reduces the fact that so far all speakers have supported the intensity and content of this law more or less. But two things I'd like to point out and ask one question or express one skeptic and doubt. The first thing is the fact that here it is debated, and not only writes about how reliable the electronic solution to the problem of land books will be, but there has been a strategic decision long ago made. Technical solutions are an integral part of the protection is an integral part of everything that has been done so far. What this bill offers, however, promises and why it advocates is the fact that it also cites the direction of the future development of a solution to the problem of land books. At the time, great progress and business benefits were introduced during Austria-Hungarian times, there was the introduction of land books. Instead of the word of an unfortunate deed contract in one part, a rather serious system appeared but unfortunately Gutenberg's type of communication, written. The same was true of errors, leafing, burning of entire archives, and the fact that even without incineration, there were many abuses that were committed in land books, and we have judgments in this regard. Therefore, the risks that exist should be measured by the gain that we have in particular through the introduction of electronic forms in the judiciary at all, whether in the case of an R-File or here, the grants who do not think they achieve the principle of effectiveness but also allow far greater transparency, transparency and control that is achieved. Here is not only an emphasis on savings and speed, here is an emphasis on the fact that everyone can check as those list of debtors in the Ministry of Finance are not lists of disgrace but lists that allow everyone to see who they are and that there is no selectivity and volunteerism in it. For this reason, I seriously support everything that has resulted from the experience of informing, or the electronic way of keeping land books and the progress that this law indicates. The unification of catalogues and land books is not one small technical rationalisation but another more economically acceptable logic solving this problem. The other thing I see in the bill of this law is the fact that the ministry shows a far greater degree of courage than it was to expect or have had predecessors, without any criticism to the predecessors. But as a doctor, we were all aware of the diagnosis, but it took a little courage to go to not always quite a certain therapy. Surely there will be delays, costs and bad experiences, but this step should also be started to introduce order in land books. I in this formation of a land-marked court that will evenly break the practice of what you called feudalization, consider it a very important, important progress that will allow at least that part of the functioning of the judiciary to improve. Since I have announced a small reserve, I am actually referring it to Article 180.b or in this proposal of the law of Article 38 concerning the introduction of an institute of Commissioners for the solution of land-marked matters. As some of my predecessors have said, it is a country where the mentality of respect for rights, in which honesty and honesty rule, may not be disputed. This is how I think it's about an underdeveloped solution. There the Commissioner is mentioned as a witness who will help the court determine whose is and where they are borderline and so on, and I am expressing some doubt, and I would like a meaningful control, especially if we now have the possibility of that higher court. Perhaps the solution would be to draw up a plan in advance in which someone would be a commissioner in which jobs, in which areas, where those interested may also object to his appointment. And then, of course, it wouldn't be good if your objections were later when it was all over and the proceedings came to trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28672	Thank you. A respected colleague named Peja Grbin has also applied for the debate. Here you go. I'm sorry, I didn't see them signal, I'm sorry. Before that, we've reported a single replica. A colleague, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28673	The foot of the replica to the esteemed colleague Kregar. He mentioned so-called. It's a list of shame, and it's really not a list of shames. It's a list of taxpayers to the Republic of Croatia. But the bigger problem is that after the publication of that list of debtors, only 1% were charged. That's enough talking about I'd say maybe the ineffectiveness of certain measures of the Ministry of Finance. Because out of 50 billion kuna, you charge only 1%. So it's not a success, it's a failure. Therefore, it is necessary to work urgently precisely and even through those reprogrammes through any other models, but it should also be defined which of these 50 billion kuna tax debt is impossible to charge. And I'm going to come back a little bit, and we're really aware of this big problem that's related to geodetic measurement, about non-compliance and catastrophe and granite. It is not only a problem in Zagreb in those lines in the grantovnica and catastro, it is a problem that is related to almost all units of local self-government. But we must be aware of the following facts, that in this problem the resolution of overall geodetic measurements must include all, both the state and local and regional self-government, but also the fact that today both local and regional self-government can hardly participate in this process precisely because of the lack of funds and the lack of basic financial resources that have occurred through the centralisation of finances, rather than decentralisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28674	Time's up. Replication response, dear Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28675	I would like us to stick to the agenda and discuss what is the point of the agenda, not just about what or to serve us a side-by-side example to expand the subject. Here's the theme of adopting the Law on Land Books, which is what I referred to, and as far as success or failure is concerned, that's your assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28676	Dear colleague Peja Grbin, I now give you my word to present your debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28677	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here I was listening to the discussions of previous speakers, especially those colleagues of the Cregars, and they really spoke nicely, they said a lot, but I feel the need to add a few more cartoons to one of my own, perhaps the most important laws that we have in this assembly because it is a law that is supposed to acquire property rights on the property. So, unlike some other things to acquire property rights on real estate, it is not enough to conclude a contract, it is necessary to enroll it in land books. Now what did we have in Croatia? We had a system of land books that arranged another Austrian empire in the 19th century and it was how well it worked while it was up-to-date, but the update got lost and we came up with the idea of fixing the system by putting what's in the books, which is slow, which is what we're going to copy it into the computer, we're going to be publishing land-books faster. But what we got, we got that one set of wrong data from a hand-held land book was copied into the one in electronic form. In fact, we got that land-book excerpt I won't always say, I won't say even often, but in too many cases with the wrong data instead of two or three days we get in five minutes. We've done enough, but we haven't done enough. All of the governments of this country, all of the Parliament's meetings, have worked hard to improve the land-book system in the Republic of Croatia and have all made one big contribution to the fact that today is certainly better, certainly more effective than it was 20 years ago, but it was obviously not enough. That is why I support the adoption of this law and, in particular, some of the characteristics that we find in it, which I would especially like to single out. First it is absolutely important from now on in the first degree the land-book reference works. Why does it matter? Because the control of their work will no longer be in court of the second degree where we wait a year and a half, two or three to get a decision but to control their work will be at the municipal court's land-marking judge. They'll only handle the cases after the complaint. So the burden now shifts from the judges, they only resolve by object, only when the parties are not satisfied. After that, the cases go to the high court, in the first phase until the establishment of a high-level land-book court, it will be county courts, and after that court. Why is the high court of land and book good, because we have so far had the situation of the decision signed by the first-degree judge in the second-degree examination of the apprentice at the county court, without a legal examination, just arrived from the Faculty of Law. In the cases of damages of 5, 10 thousand kuna in the second degree, the Council of Three Judges participates, in the case of enrolment of property rights on land or in real estate worth 100 thousand euros or more in the second degree was attended by the trainee. The quality of such decisions to come in two or three years was disastrous. That is why the introduction of a specialised land-booking court that will be tried in the second degree after the control of municipal court judges has been carried out will lead not only to a greater quality of settlement of cases but also to a greater speed because they will be committed to working only on these and such cases and will be able to decide much better and much faster because of their specialization. Furthermore, I also support the provisions on land-booking correct procedure. That's exactly where we go back to what I was talking about at the beginning, which is that we are now electronically guided by land books too often a set of wrong data and we have to correct it. And in this respect, I really support these provisions, and I think they're going to speed up the process. Finally, the land database is particularly important. That's the main thread of leadership, that's the goal of getting us from that land book that Austria-Hungarian still formed during Francis Joseph's time to come up with a set of data where at the same time we're going to get data on the surface, shape, purpose of land and on ownership and other real-legal relations on that land and on that thing. Only one such set of data will allow quick, precise, accurate management of our own resources or property resources. However, I would ask one question, and it concerns the issue of the primary order. I'm pleased that this solution is much better than what it's been so far. The uniform period of one year is now applicable to all these notes, but yet the primary order note was established in order not to lose effect when, for example, a temporary measure is taken in two, three or four years from the moment it is requested, and in the meantime, the property is changed three times by the owner. We believe that, given the speed of decision of our courts, we must either make it very clear to impose orders in saying and setting temporary measures or not to extend this time limit, but to allow the parties to, for example, where a decision has not been taken as in this case, request a further extension of that period of one year. But, of course, on the condition that the proceedings were initiated and that the proceedings were pending, because it is not the party's fault at that time that, for example, the interim measure was not taken but that the court had to decide on this temporary measure. And now something to end that may not be at firsthand related to this matter of the law, but it is a terrible matter of the urgency and quality of our land books, and it is a matter of connecting the land book and the book of contracted contracts. A few years ago, a regulation was adopted that was supposed to improve and improve the way these two books were brought together. Unfortunately, this process has burdened the court’s work by introducing new cases that had not been discussed or out of the debate to be cases where we have real small litigation, small trials about whether we will link a book containing dwellings on which there was a household law with a land book, or with land under the building. We've overloaded the work of the courts, slowed down the process, increased its costs, burdened a whole series of other administrative bodies. I would ask the Ministry to seriously consider the changes in that regulation after the adoption of this Law on Land Books in order to speed up the connection issue. We have certain deadlines. We recently extended those deadlines. I'm afraid that we won't be able to make it within that extended period because it's a problem that we have all over Croatia, in Pula, in Rijeka, especially in Zagreb, and we have to do something to support it. Anyway, here's another way to narrow it down. This is a good law, it's going in the right direction, and I think we should back it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28678	Thank you. We have time to hear another individual debate from a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28679	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister with Associates. So since I have also pointed out in my discussions so far how much I welcome information in all the systems of the Republic of Croatia, I think it deserves to point out once more first because of the availability and transparency of the system, no matter how much it was and how much Grbin said it might be unsavourable in terms of information that allows citizens to access. In the material that we received nicely tells us the first sentence says that land books actually outline the legal state of real estate in the Republic of Croatia. This legal situation is, that is, the whole system is ultimately bad. It's bad because he's as unsupervised as his colleague Hubbin said. In fact, we have situations where notes in land books haven't changed in centuries. So from the first entry actually in the time of the Austro-Hungarian they remained the same. There are now settlements, cities, or farmland in these areas. But then the situation was radically changing. But what I think is important is yet to say, since a lot has already been mentioned in the debate is a few examples from practice, examples that affect human lives, despite the social and other issues of our citizens. So, citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that is why I believe that this law is one in a series of measures that will help to address such issues as quickly and efficiently as possible. I'm going to give you an example just from taking this so recent history of the city of Osijek where you have an entire village called Sjenjak, which today in land books you're being led like a pasture, so it's like a pasture. It hasn't been like that for years. For decades, it hasn't been like that. For more than 40 years, it hasn't been like that. But since this is a large settlement, many of these people did not have legal problems when buying and similar things that are related to property-legal relations. However, we have examples from recent Croatian history where that is not the case. For example, the settlements Rudine and Selesh are located in the municipality of Antunovac. These are the settlements that the Republic of Croatia built for returnees in the municipality that was hit by the Homeland War, the restoration of which they were entitled. These people took over what they would tell me in rock bau, so with walls and roofs. They had to invest the rest in real estate. But people came back, wanted to live in the municipality of Antunovac, they wanted to create in that municipality. But the problems came later. In fact, these properties have never been introduced into land books, these properties do not exist. And what's going on? People who live in these properties can't become owners of that property. Therefore, under the applicable laws of the Republic of Croatia, they cannot apply for the purchase of the property they live in. Croatian defenders cannot apply for the donation of property to which they are entitled, etc. It's a whole series of other problems. So people invested in these properties to make them actually suitable for living in them, and now they have no right to them. Because what's going on? The homeowner dies, which unfortunately happens often because it is about older people, but who live with their family in that property. And it happens that people who aren't property holders, so they don't have any right to stay in that property and are on the street and after investing in that property a significant amount of money. So, one big legal property, but I'd dare say the social uncertainty of the government is due to impunity in the first place of the state. That is why, and because of the similar situations that I believe there are in Croatia and that this example from the Municipality of Antunovac is not alone, I can only conclude that I support this law and that I hope that its application will help to solve these and similar problems as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28680	We have a single replica reported. Dear colleague Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28681	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's this last line of yours that prompted me to the line. That would be beautiful, as you said, that the passing of this law will solve this problem that you're talking about. These problems could also be solved within the existing Law on Land Books without any difficulty. The question is simply that really the state in which I don't know when it was maybe a priority, I don't justify it, maybe it was a priority to give people houses, but she certainly missed doing what was important. So, to solve the first ownership situation on the plot, the second one to draw that house and that the house traffic legally was on the use of either owned or owned in accordance with Croatian laws should be. And I'm going to tell you that in time when it happened with the returnees in one part of Zadar that I personally insisted that we not make easy decisions but help people to get that real estate done properly. Today they are satisfied because they have both building permits and listed houses and all that is needed, which unfortunately has not happened in some areas. That's why I'm saying I'd be happy if by passing this law we could solve it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28682	The replica corresponds to a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28683	Thank you, Vice President. So her colleagues can agree to part of it, in fact, could have worked it out before. Why not and in this House has already been warned of this particular case. Not me, but our predecessors sitting in these benches warned about him. I hope, I share the belief that it will be settled. First of all, because the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are in this case those who suffer, not by their own fault, but above all by the guilt of the inertness of the state system which should therefore be done what they should have done during and after the construction of these properties. But what I do believe is that this government will be committed to addressing these problems because they are not lonely. So, I have listed only one of the problems, and that this law in that broader picture is one of the steps as soon as such matters are solved. Because many, let's say, and my neighbors happened to find out that the particle on which they have a house is actually divided into two-particle land books and that the owners of both particles are some very third-party people that they didn't even buy that property from. So there's this big mess that should definitely be updated as quickly as possible, and I believe the very availability of this data will help people solve these problems as soon as possible and self-initiatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28684	Thank you, too. Here's what I think right now is exactly the perfect time to announce the break. We'll continue at 3 p.m. and discuss a respected colleague named Zeljko Kolara. My colleagues and colleagues continue the debate. For an individual debate, Kolar's wish applied. Here's your colleague Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28686	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. A very important law is ahead of us on benches and all praise to the minister and his associates. Not to repeat what my colleagues said. However, it should be said that the technology that is progressing means about digitisation and about the possibility of drawing up plans for new dimensions of digital... is all that makes it easier for us to get to the final product. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the digitisation of land books, as counterpart Peja said, does not solve the matter. What's important is that ZK's proper procedure is as simple and as cheap as possible, and as affordable as possible for people because where we're not going into new measurements, actually the ZK's correct procedure or B's the only way people can actually get rid of their country's library. What is certainly good is that it is proposed to introduce a High Land Court of the Republic of Croatia where uniform court practice would take place and where, for some time, they would actually know that all courts are working according to the same procedure. That land-based book referencearies can make solutions and implement this already can, and today only now will it be settled in law. What is very important so far has not been, and that is that a partial solution can be made to the implementation of the new measurement and it will actually enable dynamics, which is very important for economic reasons. However, without a new measure of part of the Republic of Croatia, we will never cover the whole of Croatia with a new measure and would not be economically justified, we will not be able to solve the land's book situation and start investments. So far, we've put 130 catastrian municipalities into service. That's the value of the contract somewhere around 219 million kuna, of which is 109 million kuna from the state budget. 70 catastrian municipalities are currently in the process of exposure to public insight, it is 75 thousand 350 ha and the value of these contracts is 162 million kuna. The certified elaborate measurements are totalled in 71 catastrian municipalities of 52 thousand 430 ha and the total value of the contract is 130 million kuna. The elaborat measurements on the review are for 16 catastrian municipalities total of 7 509 ha and the value of the contract 12 million 723 kuna. The measurements under way are carried out for 52 catastrian municipalities of 52 thousand 118 ha and the value of these contracts is 100 million kuna. So the total in numbers is 339 catastrian municipalities, 320 thousand 839 ha total value of the contract 626 million kuna. The total number of catastrian municipalities in the Republic of Croatia is 3 thousand 351 municipalities. So if we've solved 339 then we can see what kind of business we're actually looking at. But what's being asked is whether our land-book courts or grantshops have the capacity and that the competent ministry has the money for this. So now there are 70 catastrian municipalities for which we should initiate the procedure and, in fact, to launch or in some way end the investment of 162 million kuna, and surely up to the 70 catastrian municipalities that are, there are certain to be several investments worth several dozen million euros. And that's something that should be a priority for the government of the Republic of Croatia in the next period. I personally believe that the Ministry of Justice together with the State Geodetic Administration with the Ministry of Economy, Regional Development, entrepreneurship and crafts are the key four ministries that can launch an investment and should not regret money because every kuna invested in this comes back with 20 kuna minimum. And nowhere so fast we're not going to start our initiatives, and we're not going to return the money invested as quickly as new measurements, and that's something that my buddy is talking about, that's something that has no alternative. Digitalization okay, digital form is fine, it's going to come out on the Internet super, control everything ok. Today, however, we have records from 1892 and there has been no change in land books. And in 2012 gave this rebalancing gave it from the reserve, in 2013, in 2014, we have to invest big money in this. What we're talking about in the law and it's about some way the commissioner of a witness court, it's always been a man through tradition who well knows the land-book situation on the ground, meaning he knows people, who enjoyed what particle, etc. And there were now even some suggestions from some committees I saw that it would be an employee of the court. That's impossible, there's no such capacity, and neither are those people trained to do anything else. Whether they will now be paid out of compensation to provide units of local self-government or will be their communal referents who know the area very well or their communal directors who know the area very well about it are still to discuss it until the second reading and see what the situation is. But I think the key... is the implementation of these 70 catastrian municipalities he's waiting for. We'll never make another measure for the whole country. And it wouldn't even be normal because much richer states don't do that. Do you have catastrian municipalities where in a year you have two contracts, traffic in 50 years I don't know a dozen drafts to implement. So it's not a problem to maintain this catastrian community and there's no economic activity in it. However, infrastructure corridors, major cities, sea cities are impossible. And plus we had new measurements that were made in the 1980s in 1983, third, fourth, fifth, where the new measurement was carried out in the catastrophe and not in the grantovnica. And now that we're doing cadastral elaborates, we're doing them double one for a new data cadastre, the other for an old data store, and only when a foreign investor comes to you, and when he sees it, it doesn't make any sense to him, why they're writing one number, why they're writing other numbers there. That's the key. What is also the meaning of these 339 total catastrian municipalities, which in some ways cover 130 in use, 70 public-examination procedures, 71 certified elaborate measurements, 16 elaborate measurements in review and 52 measurements in progress. It's an interesting schedule by county because yesterday we had some debate about roads so there were now 0.8 million of these got 1.2 of these four and it's interesting the first time in the Parliament yesterday I heard that someone mentioned my Krapina-Zagorje County that they got something more than the others so I'm going to read now how we got here at least in Krapina-Zagorje County only 2 catastrian municipalities are in the process and with colleagues Bačić in Dubrovnik-Neretvanje 32 which is good and that in Zadar is 46 which is good and that in Osijek-Baranja 31 is good. I will be pleased when in my county there will be 31 catastrian municipalities, and then let it be in Dubrovnik-Neretvanska 80, in Zadar 90 means it should not be seen in such a way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28687	Thank you, too. We have a replica on your presentation of Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28688	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, first of all, around the county. Of course, it would be ideal if everything could be covered at once, and there must also be some criteria for selecting when the measurements will go because at the end of the day, citizens also get the measure that they would normally have to pay practically for, and they must all be in the same position. I wanted to replicate on this you commented on a provision on this Commissioner of the Court who knows the local opportunities well, I think it is good and that it is the same in the practice of the established institutes that only now have received their legal coverage and so far when it was going out in the field when the land books were restored, there was usually someone who knew who was being consulted, etc. What I would think about is this point 2. I don't know if he needs to put in charge that he delivers calls for discussion. Then you know there's usually an older man who I don't know, and he's not at all as well-skilled and educated in these administrative affairs but very well imagine the situation in the country knows these places of opportunity and he knows them long ago. Here I would have taken it, but maybe I wouldn't have given it to him for him to deliver the calls. And equally, although local self-government units will always be satisfied and happy that the measurement is done in their area. And they will be willing to co-finance and often co-finance citizens themselves. And it won't be a problem for them or they'll certainly be willing to pay for it, if they can't tell me, but it just seems inappropriate and we're talking about it in a series of special laws that simply imposes a financial obligation on the local self-government unit for something because here it says that the Commissioner has the right to receive compensation and that compensation is provided by local self-government units. in whose territory it is carried out. [[Thank you, colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28689	Thanks, buddy. Time's up. We have a reply to the replica of colleague Zeljko Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28690	Comrade Lovrin, obviously you didn't listen very well. So I was 23 years old, and I told you that I've been doing a lot of these measurements on the ground and that this commissioner and we Geodites have a postcard read, peasant ask. I said it was good and it was just a question of how it would go through local self-government units. As far as the criteria are concerned, it would be good if in this debate we skipped because then we started looking at that table and then they'd always find and I was ready, and I had an investment and I was ready. And as Finance Minister Slavko Linic would say, the budget is an inexhaustible source of income but not always for everything. Well, of course, then whoever's doing the distribution has to decide who gets who won't get it. However, what I said is that there are catastrian municipalities that will never enter into a new measurement or come at the end of a cycle that my colleague Bačić said was doing this for 30, 40 years is there simply no economic justification in small... where you have one or two, three measurements a year and two contracts. There isn't. However, the most important thing is that what has been done so far is that it does not stand, that we now intervene to start doing so, and that in the 2013 and 2014 budget, large funds are approved for the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28691	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Drazenko Pandek, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28692	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In relation to the proposed text, I would take the opportunity to point out, because of the importance of the topic and in the individual debate, not some of the elements of the proposal that I might personally make any changes or suggest that changes be considered, based on my own experience and on consultation with experts in this area. First of all, in relation to the provisions of Article 170a, I was given the impression that he was making a certain one, I would say, perhaps even a step back, that is, a solution in which an unlimited insight into the last state of the land books was made available on the Internet. This now provides for the possibility of fees for insights into the state of entry into a particular cadastral particle on the web pages. Personally, I believe that the availability of information on land-book rights should be free of charge and on equal terms. I believe that this proposal is in line with the principle of the public, and according to this principle of the land book should be available to everyone on the basis of what it unsupervised premises that everyone knows the land-book situation, i.e. the ignorance of the land-book situation does not excuse. Therefore, the purpose of the existence of land books as a book of public... is to publish the rights entered in them so that it will act on everyone and, in some ways, it seems to me that this principle may be compromised by the regulation of the possibility of payment of insight into that data. That is why I am saying this because it seems to me that the achievement of this principle depends on the financial strength of a particular person makes it impossible for one approach for all to do so. I think that principle should be fulfilled regardless of the financial power, regardless of the profession and whether it is public or private. Although it certainly should be commended for solutions aimed at digitising and informing the land-book system, I even thought that this could have gone one step further. This remark firstly refers to the possibility of the availability of an electronic PK derivative and, according to the present proposal, such an excerpt is at the end of the sea if I am well aware of the physical rise in paper form. It is commendable that the availability of such an excerpt is now a significant improvement, but since legal transactions can be concluded in electronic form, I do not think there is any reason why the land-booked extract cannot be issued in electronic form in addition to the rules applicable to electronic documents and with the application of the rules in the electronic signature. I think it's technically feasible, and I don't see any reason why such a possibility might end up not being arranged and legally. Article 180a therefore provides for an obligation to draw up notices on the advertising board of the competent court and the competent authority of the local self-government unit cadasar in which the area is managed, etc. It may also add to the obligation to place such a notice on the advertising boards of larger local self-governments, i.e. on which land-book cartridges are placed. I say this for purely practical reasons, because of the introduction of a certain dose of life into these laws because of the local opportunities I witness, specifically in the area of the Council. There in that area, which is very large, the jurisdiction of a municipal court includes quite a large number of settlements and reporting notices on the council’s advertising board, for example, specific urban districts do not have that importance for residents of the Mountain of Gornja, Kasina, Adamovac, who often do not come to the center of Sesveda for days or months and do not come to the office of the council. The principle of public protection and the principle of party protection and improvement of legal certainty would significantly contribute to such... putting on advertising panels local self-government where they exist. This would contribute to the efficiency of people to report, to be able to urinate, to learn about the reconstruction process, to the correct process, and thus to contribute to the quality of work and to the court and to the ultimate result of obtaining the real owners of certain particles. In such a provision, I would put in place other articles where there is a reporting obligation on advertising boards. In Article 35(5), I would propose to add words to the whole municipality for the following words, or when it is based on economic interests. I believe it is justified to classify economic interest as a reason for allowing part of the land's books... or to renew as soon as such interest is proven. That's what I'd say. the procedure could be guided by a specific economic zone or a specific route on which some infrastructure facilities such as the road will be built, and I think this could significantly contribute to the speed of reaching a particular investment. I think we can all agree that contributing to competitiveness and efficiency in achieving investments is one of the priorities to work on. This could be a concrete contribution. In Article 41, in relation to Article 182, in which paragraph 4 is added, I find it necessary to amend a part of the sentence which reads as follows: in the procedure of establishing the land book of the owners and... the cartridges shall be drawn up in the debate for the collection of deposits according to the data... land, data collected by the holders of the rights on the cadastrian particles. Now this last part of the sentence seems to me to have been subdued because I should be read: according to the collected data on rightholders on the cadastrian particles. It seems to me that it was a purely nomotechnical mistake. In Article 192(2), the proposal is to consider also the need not to call for a debate on correction and advertising because an ad of such a type has already been published, so when the correct procedure is opened as proposed by the amendments to Article 186 and perhaps for the principle of efficiency of the procedure, it may not be necessary here to consider this amendment. Since legal nomotechnics should also seek to exclude excess text, I would suggest that the erasure of paragraph 5 of Article 51 be considered because it prescribes special treatment of objections and applications that have arrived after the appointment of the correction hearing. In paragraph 4, the procedure is already prescribed, i.e. with objections and applications submitted after the expiry of the deadline. According to the text on late applications and objections, it is discussed if persons present at the hearing agree to discuss such a complaint or application. Therefore, I would agree with the view that there is no real reason why it should be done, perhaps the difference between whether the application or the objection was delayed in relation to the order of the hearing, given that any application or objection which came after the expiry of the time limit for the correction was delayed in Article 195(1), respectively, before the court’s obligation to, when not satisfied with the notified complaint of the applicant, indicate that it fulfils its application in the case or proceedings before the competent authority. In order to protect the rights of the parties, I find it possible that such a provision may remain, and in addition, the proposed text is omitted to state the word "application" and it follows that only a note of the objection is deleted. Therefore, with respect to articles that regulate the renewal and addition of land books, these are articles 55, 56 and 57, I would point out the need to introduce perhaps provisions that prescribe a single procedure for the placing of both owners and freighters, which will allow the court to register the real owner. Furthermore, I would suggest that the assembly of the cartridges is not implemented if the data on the particle of the rightholder in the land book and the catastro are identical in order to achieve the principle of efficiency, perhaps if there is already no clear need for the procedure to be duplicated to some extent. It also seems correct to me that the proposal to determine who will call for a debate on the correction because this procedure is essentially different from the process of calling for a hearing for a correction of the establishment. In further proposals, I am of the opinion that, with the proper application of the rules laid down in the procedure of establishment and in the renewal process, it would achieve a uniform treatment that would result in the objective of each of these procedures by enrolling the real owner in the new land book. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I would say a new kind of notation in an appropriate land book that would suggest that neither can be treated with trust in the land book. This would make the opinions I could stop legal traffic in the existing record without the new one still exists. Such a note would cover almost, so all the particles of that land book that are being restored because it is being refurbished and carried out where there is no, so matching data from the land book, the catastra and the real state. In short, more on Article 200b. Paragraph 3 of the proposed text is somewhat unclear, and for the sake of clarity, I propose that it be prescribed that the entries made after the entry referred to in paragraph 1 will be deleted by official duty if their content is contrary to the entry to be determined for the solution adopted in the debate on the correction. In accordance with Article 20b of Regulation (EC) No 20b of the European Parliament and of the Council, the European Parliament and of the Council are to be published in the EEA the procedures to be submitted to the applicant of the proposal and to the other persons referred to therein. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I consider it justified to consider the proposal to submit the opening decision to the applicant of the proposal to those persons from whose enrolment it is possible to conclude that the delivery would be possible for those persons who requested the entry in the land book after the notice for the reasons of the principle of efficiency. [[Invader Batinić: Time colleagues.]] Here's a thank you. Those were my suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28693	Thank you, too. Next up for a debate, Branko Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28694	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, Mrs Lovrin, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, supported this bill in her first reading and presented certain suggestions that would be very good for them to be discussed, to be accepted for the second reading. I also support it, and I have already said through several replicas during this morning's debate, so I support this bill. And it is good for the Government, or the Resort Ministry, and it would be good if the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning did so more seriously into the problem of resolving both the catastrian records on the one hand, on the other hand and the land-book records. I would be happier if, with this law that will contribute to the settlement of this very important record, I would be happier if, with this law, they were properly monitored and positions in the state budget because it would then indicate that we are also a society, as well as as the Government that we have indeed determined ourselves according to the regulation of this record which is crucial for the economic development of Croatia. In fact, as much government as it is, whether it is this government or the previous government, we have tried to speed up investment by some proposals for legal solutions, to make it easier for citizens to access the land book very quickly, we have made sure that, with the best intentions of these laws, this problem is not solved. This is also the case with the law on procedures and conditions of construction to encourage investment. It's that law all in 45 days that's won a lot of success, but only with those investors who have solved property legal relations. Because the one who did not have resolved property-legal relations could not have come into a position to be in this law, so it was proved through this law that the State Administration is often bureaucratic and more than necessary, however, when the assumptions that have already been created in other developed countries have been made that our state administration may, within one appropriate time, respond by issuing building acts, especially if these legal decisions have reduced the number of administrative procedures as it was with this law. It is a similar situation with the Law of Ownership and other real rights where we have practically forced building managers to initiate the registration procedure of the building that was introduced through the book of contracted contracts within 3 years, and there we have witnessed that a very large number of pending cases is simply not possible because of the unsettled property-law situation. But we're aware of that, it can't be solved quickly I've talked about it before. It will take some more time until this situation is resolved, but if we had this national consensus that every year on these items we set aside and not to spare, not to reduce the funds on these items, I think we would reach the goal I was talking about. A moment ago Mr. Kolar said it was illusory to expect the Republic of Croatia to be with its 3 350 catastrian municipalities resolved over a few years, it was illusory to expect. But 20% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is an interesting space that is potentially tempting to investors. It's on the other side of the urban environment, it's these infrastructure corridors, it's a coastal area, etc., etc. So these are the areas where the most requirements for change were in the Catastrian either in the land-book opera. We can cover that part with a geodetic measurement and move on to geodetic measurement as soon as possible. I've talked about it in this House before, but I'll do it again anyway, I think it's good for all of us. I am here and I appreciate that you, Mr. Minister, are hearing this information that we have in Croatia, which came from the experience that we have with so far 94 catastrian municipalities for which the whole catastrian and land-booked state has been arranged. Let's say the implementation of the cadastrian measurement and the restoration of land books usually doubles the number of particles in a cadastrian municipality, which means that the average area of the particle is doubled. The number of registered buildings is doubled, the registration of property traffic registered in land books is tripled and the number of property-law disputes related to borders and records in the register falls to less than 1% of the number of disputes before the cadastrian measurement. And finally the collected municipal fee increases by several times. We even have examples of setting up a municipal fee in a catastrian municipality where a new measurement was made. And another example, every registered family house in Croatia's financial flows brings new capital of at least 50,000 euros to the average value of the mortgage on such facilities. On average, 1000 new registered facilities in these catastrian municipalities, where the catastrian state was arranged for the implementation of the cadastrian measurement and restoration of the land book in one urban catastrian municipality, increase the village's financial power by an average of 50 million euros. So, I think only these two examples are enough argument that these remaining 17% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, if we've already solved 3% of the territory from these 94 catastrian municipalities, then those remaining 17% of the territory that we really need to get back to it as soon as possible because I say it will be in the financial flows of any cities and municipalities on whose space the cadastrian measurement is taking place, and for the whole of the Republic of Croatia very soon it will be returned to these financial flows. And another thing I resented, otherwise in the debate about the law I was author, it was the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings, and then we are aware that one of the great reasons aside from the lack of urban plans and the unsettled property-law situation, so that these are the causes of illegal construction in Croatia besides others but they are certainly one of the important assumptions that led to illegal construction in the Republic of Croatia because people often could not or were very difficult to resolve their own property-legal relations and then resorted to illegal construction. Clearly, it doesn't justify them, but it's a fact we need to make peace with. If according to this law, the Republic of Croatia can make revenue, although significantly reduced fees for the retention of buildings in the area, if it can be made, we have estimated about 2 billion kunas somewhere when all 300 thousand illegally built buildings in the Republic of Croatia were realised and if they all paid that fee the estimate was somewhere over 2 billion kuna and 30% of these funds were according to the law that was the first law then this government had changed it for exactly the State Geodetic measure that therefore these funds were exclusively intended for the job. That's what the government gave up on. I don't understand why, because the more you see here, the more you'll agree with it, and we all agree that these funds would be very helpful on one side of the catastra arrangement, and on the other hand, the planning of the land book. Because we really had a bar for that space that at that time we would move and solve property-legal relations we would have had a clean situation. Then what would be the assumption of further investment? Whatever new law the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed to increase investment in Croatia I worked on a lot of major projects in Croatia, none more significant project than IKEA or maritime goods or roads, whether they are highways, state roads, any project in the Republic of Croatia stops and at least one part of that land is not handled legally. Whether because of the unsettled private relations on that land, either because it represents some state or ownership of a local self-government unit many times I say these barriers were mainly prevented by one investment swing in the Republic of Croatia. And whatever law I say, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to allow for rapid investment in Croatia until we resolve the situation in the cataster and the land book, we will not have the possibility of fast investment, quick issuing of works for construction and all that is meant by this. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28695	Thank you, too. And on behalf of the promoter, Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28696	Thank you very much. I thank you for supporting the law. All comments and suggestions will absolutely be taken into account and you will see everything we can put into it. Maybe just three things that came up here as one of the questions in the debate. First we talked about digitization. I'll start with that. We don't see digitization as a solution, we only see it as a means. The solution is the rest of the law. So it's important to set up processes that will lead to something else through digitization. You don't need to be afraid of digitization, you believe in practice unfortunately from paper books has disappeared more documents than it will disappear from digitized. When we look often and the entire pages are missing, we see that they were gone. So nothing security will be affected by it more than it is now, but it will be raised. Because when you have a procedure like that, then you know exactly when someone, at which point, is in something, because everyone leaves the square. So digitization is a sure thing. We don't need to be afraid of that. We were talking about measurements here, and it's absolutely something that's important and what's going through and through this law because some of the procedures are being made easier, but of course it's the strongest means for us to actually bring this to an end. We are now in a situation where there are 84 municipalities where measurements are made in which we have to carry out the renewal process together with DGU, we have made one plan to approach it and we expect very good results recently. So that's something, let's go into two stages, one is now the sooner we do the renovation for what's already been measured, because there's a change of state every day and actually what's been invested so far and we can say that between those 160 and 200 million kunas of collapse because when time goes by, we don't have that effect anymore. So that's something where we have a plan to work it out together with our colleagues. Through some of this stuff that was, I agree, the cost is one question that we talked about, but these are undeniable procedures so we went to this solution, we can discuss it, the delivery when it comes to erasing also delivery has sometimes blocked the whole process, the effects here also before performing, we'll see but we can talk about it. Commissioner, we wanted this to be institutionalized and absolutely these proposals and we're going to work on getting him dressed, but we're glad that he's being accepted as a term and as something that's useful for a return. In these other things, it's absolutely one of the problems, so you've been extending the deadline the other day of this harmonisation, the books of the contract with the land book and the connection. The rule is the way it is, we'll change it, but there's an important mechanism to just encourage people to go into it. That's the problem with the land book. We're going to put tools on but if we don't have users to make a change, that's going to want some kind of change, we're not going to have an effect. So here's everything together I thank you for your support and you'll see the result soon enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28697	Thank you, Minister. We have one replica. Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28698	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Minister, I expected you to be the one for this neighborhood given one very correct and good debate about this law to mention at which stage is what is key to the grantshop, it's the OIB because you're all doing this if you don't solve it through the OIB, it all falls into your water. It's one project that's been going on for three years. You know very well that at the time of the introduction of the OIB, only 5% of the owners were seduced by JMBG, which has not been in force for ten years. And so I didn't answer on purpose for the debate, and I didn't want to replicate it all morning, given the correctness of the debate. I expected you to say that in your final address, because this is all wonderful and wonderful. But if you don't have an I.D. on the basis that certain bodies at some point can pull information out of the garter, then this whole story falls into the water. Because watch the garter should be an integral part of the state administration when someone needs some information at the garnery he will not go to the garter for him but he who runs a certain administrative procedure through the OIB and the central register will withdraw the data from the garnery and then we will basically achieve what we need and what we want. In the end, this predicted unification you know for a long time that it was a problem that the catastrus and the grantovnica did not practically want under the same cap, but I repeat all of this, if a major project is not completed regarding the OIB and the identification through the OIB, and I am sure that 15% of the owners will remain, who will not be identified through the OIB, unfortunately you will not achieve what you need, which is that the grantshop will by no means be different from any state body, so whoever needs any information, let's say when a building permit is issued, that reference who issues a building permit through the central register, through the OIB pulls the data and the party doesn't need to go to the garland at all. In this way, you'll reduce the pressure, I apologize, I'll just say one more sentence, you'll reduce the party's pressure on the garter, and it's a project along with these laws that you'll have to insist on, and when it's done, then you'll have a great thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28699	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Minister Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28700	Thank you very much. So there's a lot in the law that I didn't mention So the OIB is one of the things that's being spent every day and the OIBs pair up every day. All the birth numbers we had in the garter are paired with the OIB. There's a whole series of people who are still enrolled inside, who just don't have an OIB, and they'll never have it because they're dead, for example, so this is actually about changing and entering new entries, and that's why all these procedures are. [[Occupied Vice President: On the replica of the Minister, you can respond to the replica immediately. Here you go.]] You see, when you get a living person, you can match it to the OIB. The OIB is usually an important thing if you've seen in all the laws that we're introducing to the OIB as an identification number. Let's say the law we mentioned before also the OIB is now important because it's going to go into the register and into everyone else. So this is where the OIB works, the numbers are connected to the OIB, where there's a person who has an OIB he's connected but unfortunately we have a lot of entries that are so old because the OIB doesn't exist because these people aren't even alive. There's now a matter of this law to give the mechanism how it's going to work out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28701	I thank the ministers. This is what we've ended the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28702	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Land Books, first reading, PZE No. The 239, debate on the draft law is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that, unanimously, with 129 votes, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28703	We move on to - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Consensus concerning Co-operation in Combating Corruption through the South East European Anti-Corruption Initiative, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 240 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. Article 159 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. Reports received at the session. Would you like to further explain the Minister's proposal on behalf of the Proposer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28704	Thank you very much. So it's about me saying one technical thing. Namely, the memorandum was signed in 2007, and unfortunately, we have not implemented this parliamentary procedure in order to confirm it. So there is a memorandum before you concerning cooperation in the fight against corruption in Southeast Europe. The funds Croatia allocates are 24,000 euros per year. That's something I've been saying since 2007, it's been going on, our member is now president. And here's what I have left to add. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28705	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Unless I'm opening a debate. On behalf of SDP Representatives Club Vesna Fabiančić Križanić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28706	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. We have before us the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Consensus relating to cooperation in countering corruption through the South East European Anti-Corruption Initiative. The fight against corruption is a key topic of this part of Europe, equally important for countries on the road to EU accession as well as for Member States. The right and successful fight against corruption is fundamentally leading to the reform of society and administration. Corruption is largely preventing the development and stability of democratic institutions, demoting foreign investments and preventing economic development. This was all the main reason for the adoption of the Stability Pact anti-corruption initiative adopted in Sarajevo in February 2000, with the goal of resolving a major problem affecting the development of the Southeast European countries, which is corruption. The Memorandum of Understanding provides for regional cooperation and exchange of experiences between Member States in the area of countering corruption. The regional anti-corruption initiative, which is the Governing Board, chaired by the Secretariat, has been designated as the minimum annual amount of membership fees paid by the countries, and the Republic of Croatia is a memorandum on a specific depositary. Since the signing of the memorandum in 2007 it has been five full years and this procedure is needed to bring the memorandum into effect. On 11 January 2013, a meeting of the Management Committee of the Regional Anti-Corruption Initiative was held in Sarajevo this year. The meeting was attended by a representative of our ministry of justice, and members of the board of directors are familiar with the fact that until then, by 11 January, the memorandum ratified 5 countries out of 9 signatories. It was ratified by the Republic of Albania, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of Montenegro, the Republic of Moldova and the Republic of Romania. It was not ratified by half of January this year by the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia. Today, the Republic of Croatia is in the process of confirming what members of the Management Board were also familiar with. Since the Memorandum of Understanding provides for mechanisms for the entry into force and duration of the memorandum and that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is to conclude its internal legal procedure as soon as possible in order to create assumptions for the SDP club to enter into force, it will support the proposal for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28707	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ana Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28708	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. The HDZ Club will therefore also support the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Consensus on Co-operation in countering corruption through the South East European Anti-Corruption Initiative. By confirming this memorandum, Croatia is one in a series of laws confirming signed international agreements in co-operation in the fight against corruption, organised crime, and we know that corruption and organised crime are always connected and also to each other, and also to terrorism. These are therefore criminal activities that do not know the borders and which can be effectively fought and controlled only by cross-border and international cooperation. Since this memorandum is signed as here, as has already been said here five years ago, that Croatia has not implemented the procedure, that the memorandum sets out that it will enter into force when the confirmation comes that the last state signatories have implemented the internal procedure and confirmed this memo. It is logical that it is submitted to the Croatian Assembly for confirmation, which is moreover determined to last three years and then extend further after three years. Here it's been five years now, and now we've learned the information I wanted to ask the minister, but here I've heard how many countries signatories of the memorandum have confirmed and implemented their internal procedure for confirming the memo. Here is Croatia's fifth or sixth country, but regardless of the fact that the memorandum states that the state can decide to apply it before the entry into force, this is the case with both Croatia and throughout this time, so the countries are de facto acting as if this memorandum is in force, from the appointment of representatives to participation in membership and all activities primarily related to regional cooperation, the exchange of experiences among Member States in the area of countering corruption. I believe that Croatia has certain experience, has certain ways and tools, after all it is confirmed through meeting the criteria and that it can pass on its experience to other SEE countries. Here today we heard from the minister that our member of the board of directors, it would be interesting to hear who it is so that we, as agents, know it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28709	Thank you, too. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28710	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, I'm always glad that you're here when your points and your legal proposals are very nice of you, so here's one commendation, no matter what we're opposition and opposition. But when we talk about this legislative proposal to confirm the memoranda, that word usually pisses me off a little bit of a memo, but there's no, it starts with s, all of these says, reminding me of a compact action plan and then writes... etc., thank God it's not some other name with s because with four letters it starts and does not end or does not read.... Although this is the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Consensus relating to Co-operation in countering corruption through the JI Europe Anti-Corruption Initiative. Of course, the HDSSB club will support this legislative proposal even though we have waited as long as, 5-6 years for the other countries that have already signed this, but perhaps we have received something by waiting for the verification of this memo because according to both the statements of some officials and the government and here in the Parliament, we no longer actually have corruption because we destroyed it, so here is the memorandum for Croatia. However, in the event that something like this happens in terms of corruption and crime, it is good to have such a signed memorandum with other SEE countries, though I believe that some countries here may be missing. Although they do not belong to the classification in the countries of SEE Europe, geographically, but they are only classified there from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania and Croatia, Serbia, Montenegro, and I don't know who, but in any case it would be good, or perhaps we are too late to include the Republic of Austria, it is geographically true for JI Europe, perhaps a mittle of Europe, but given the actions that have been done and some of the things being explored, it would still not be bad for its name to be here. Unfortunately, she is a member of the European Union, and we are not yet that is not part of this memorial group. In any case, the HDSSB club will support this final draft of the Memorandum Confirmation Act, and I won't, just a memo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28711	Thank you, too. Boris Blazekovic applied for the debate individually. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28712	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with an associate. The proposed Bill on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding concerning Co-operation in countering corruption through the JI Europe Anti-Corruption Initiative is indeed that, attesting that memorandum, signed by the states of Albania, BiH, Bulgaria, Montenegro, Croatia, Macedonia, Moldova, Romania and Serbia. This memorandum gave me a convenient opportunity to talk about the very problem of corruption, corruption as a disease of society, as a single evil. Namely, all of those countries have been going through and through the severe consequences of corruption and various forms of robbery and privatisation of state-owned companies during the transition period and political turmoil since the beginning of the 1990s. All these countries suffer in development and economic stagnations, crises, all the consequences of looting and corrupting their actions in the democratic elections of elected authorities and their co-workers. Clearly, states are not their own purpose. The state exists solely because of its citizens, in order to ensure their citizens' safety, freedom and happiness. Corruption is evil. As the philosopher Thieri Igelton claims that evil to humans is the dominant struggle against this evil is even more immeasurable. Every corruption that is truly general social evil and is unacceptable to individuals, groups, associations, and ultimately the whole society reacts to it correctly, joins in the fight against it and imposes... the authorities to pass laws on suppressing the same. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The corruption that has been happening and is still happening somewhere less in the post-Communist transition countries is due to the lack of the authorities of their core activity, the struggle to improve and develop their citizens and society, namely the state and their societies. The democratically elected authorities have the primary task of regulating the state and society for the benefit of individuals, in a way that puts an individual in a fully equal position with other individuals or individuals and thus creates an equal society, a fair and efficient state. There is no corruption in such orderly countries. Corruption is excess. Croatia, like most post-Communist transition countries, has also succumbed to devastating and long-term reasonable corruption, with Croatia feeling an even greater impact of war and war profit in these areas alongside Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo and Serbia. The greatest evil of one country is corruption. Corruption destroys the economy, creates distorted values, pushes to the surface and people and events and phenomena that symbolise quasi success, and it is about incompetent fraud and thieves and devastating phenomena in society that promote inviolability... life, systematic personal education, honest work or fair entrepreneurship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Corruption is created and can only occur in state institutions and state-related enterprises. There's... to survive in extreme cases and survive forced to accept many individuals and private entrepreneurs of all kinds of activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One Slovenian publicist wrote: "Every war no matter how small he was, he threw everything from the foundation of his society." 19.5.91. in a referendum, I think it is one of the most important if not the most important day in the democratic history of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian citizens have decided that they want to have their democratically decorated state modelled by democratic states of highly developed Western Europe. In many of us there is still a vivid memory, the very feeling of pride, enthusiasm in the happiness of an independent state in which as individuals and individuals, sovereign citizens in their country will live better and better. This was the real desire of Croatian citizens and citizens to live better, safer, freer, happier in their country of equal individuals and individuals. We wanted equal initial positions, fair society, a fair state, true examples in society from politicians, artists to athletes, entrepreneurs, scientists. With honorable exceptions, we got the opposite of values and social events and patterns. An unusually long time ago Croatian society has been exposed to corruption and therefore the consequences are more devastating and long-term. And a corrupt decision is always a long-term wrong decision. A decision which lays the foundation of corruption in the long term more destructive than the current benefit of that decision or damage to the corruption decision. The statement "who is the mosque" paraphrases the state in which unfortunately we are still today. War and war have brought down to us destructive corruption as the most negative phenomenon in society and whose consequences we all feel. All of us who are engaged in any public work, and the consequences and knowledge of corruption's destruction impose the responsibility of the public fight against it. Everywhere and in every place and not only in principle when they're on to us reflectors and cameras, but always. Many of our former political, economic, social powers have been condemned or are not yet numbered on the defendant's benches. It is important that Croatia processes everything within as short a time as possible, all of which are found guilty of war profit, crime in privatisation and corruption. It is important that these processes are completed as soon as possible by respecting the laws, human and civil rights of every person but within as short a time as possible to turn a new, clean page of Croatia's development, Croatia that has the perfect opportunity to develop within the framework of EU membership into a real state of prosperity but not just prosperity in economic terms but a country of justice, open, attractive primarily for its citizens and citizens, a country where we will all be able to develop our talents and where we will all be able to realise our ambitions. We have a real chance to create for ourselves a state where we will feel comfortable, safe, free, in which we will feel happy. It's a chance we shouldn't miss. It is primarily our responsibility to us sitting in this House and our colleagues and colleagues from the government. We can't give up that responsibility and we can't give up. One of the preconditions is the constant fight against corruption, the excess of corruption that we will all condemn. And this memorandum is one of the paths towards that goal. It needs to be accepted and consumed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28713	Thank you, too. We have one replica of your presentation, Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28714	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Blažeković, you said we wanted a fair society in which we will all feel good and in which we will function so honestly. If we wanted to, we'd probably do it in 20 years. Some wanted it, and some didn't want it. Unfortunately, only a small number of those who did not want to be presently in courts and prisons. There's more to it than that. You need to say public fight against corruption. Yes, a public fight is needed primarily against the hoodlums in their own ranks. It's very simple to point to the other side and say it and you are you. The problem is when it happens in its own ranks. I witnessed the situation when we attacked a foreign minister here in the Parliament for corruption, after a few months, there was a case of corruption in the party that I belonged to back then. The first time we spoke must be answered politically, must be removed from office, the second time was the famous sentence of some system institutions doing their job. As long as we fight with a public stand against corruption, then corruption will be, primarily where the government is. Let's look at what some in Europe say today, they're not exactly measurement circles, but they are circles that are at least heard if they don't listen. Amendments to the European Parliament concerning the resolution on the completion of the monitoring Completion of the monitoring of Croatia. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] There's just these topics in there.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28715	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28716	Thank you very much. When I talked about what we wanted, I talked about all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in principle how I probably felt about them at the time, which is when most of the citizens of the Republic went to the referendums, I didn't specifically talk about anyone. Behind every word I've said today about fighting corruption, I stand entirely behind every word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28717	Thank you. And he doesn't want a minister in the end? You won't? Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I would like to thank Minister Orsat Milenić and his associate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28718	The final draft law on the confirmation of the Memorandum of Consensus concerning the co-operation and the fight against corruption through the JI Europe anti-corruption initiative, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 240, the debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 127 votes in favour, the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Consensus relating to cooperation in countering corruption through the JI Europe Anti-corruption Initiative was adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28719	We continue with - a proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cultural Councils, first reading, P.Z. No. 210 I welcome Deputy Minister Berislav Šipus with an associate. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the Proposer? Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28720	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. A few sentences on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Cultural Councils. It proposes to amend and supplement the Law on Cultural Councils by regulating the following issues, setting up areas for which cultural councils are set up at the Ministry of Culture so as to provide for two new cultural councils – the Council for Cultural and Art Amateurism, which has not been so far and the Council for the financing of international projects. There will still be music councils for music and music-clause arts, councils for dramatic, dance and performing arts, councils for books, publishing books, magazines and e-shops and bookshops, visual art, cultural and artistic amateurism, innovative artistic and cultural practices, international cultural cooperation and the Council for the financing of international projects. It will also be decided, where appropriate, by the Minister of Culture that other councils can be established. The composition of cultural councils will be arranged so that they can have five or seven members, which is decided by the minister, or the culture minister, while the current councils know they have five members. Mandatory establishment of a Council on County and City Areas with more than 20,000 inhabitants will be determined. Under the current law establishing cultural councils, there is an obligation to set up cultural councils for cities that have more than 30,000 inhabitants. And this commitment would then expand to seven additional cities. In this case it is the Križevci, Virovitica, Zaprešić, Petrinja, Kutina, Sinj and Požega. A period will be set within which an act on the establishment of that cultural council is to be adopted and the procedure for the appointment of members of the Cultural Council will be carried out. The issue of conflict of interest will also be regulated in a way that now provides for stricter rules concerning the participation of individual members of the Council who are in a possible conflict of interest in the work of the meeting of the Council, so that a member of the Council who is directly interested in making a decision on a matter that has a part in ownership or is involved in the management of a legal person who carries out activities in culture in the field of the cultural council cannot take part either in the debate and is also excluded from the decision on the matter. The relevant law reminds me not to provide for the possibility of exempting a member of the council from a decision-making session. Furthermore, a provision on the promotion of cultural and artistic creation, alternative culture and cultural amateurism will be deleted as a special council for these areas is established. The transitional provision will provide for the continuation of the work of existing cultural councils. The deadline for the launch of the procedure and the appointment of members of the newly established councils and the appointment of two new members of the council, of those councils which are determined to have seven members. Finally, the final provision will also determine the date of entry into force of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Cultural Councils and its publication in the "National Journals"
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28721	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of HDZ Representatives Club Jasen Mesic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28722	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Deputy Minister, here we have the opportunity to testify in the Croatian Assembly on yet another amendment to the law, one year and three months from the Ministry of Culture only to amend and supplement any new law. But there's one advantage here, though. This law was at the main debate, which in some laws of the Ministry of Culture we were not witnesses. However, some days today are not at a public debate which, for example, will now come to the debate behind this point. I'd say a little bit in the history of this law. He was brought while the culture minister was Mr Vujic. It was in this way to expand the circle of people who decide in programmes published in competitions for public needs in culture. The law was minimally changed in amendments and additions because it was thought to have obtained positive results and to have the possibility of advertising in cultural programmes in the wider circle. The taste of cultural councils and the real purpose of their action can be when you have a strategy or you have no strategy then at least proclaiming strategic objectives and having also criteria and procedure of evaluation that allows you to see whether what the council has decided to finance with the signature of the minister and justify your purpose. Since at least I have not seen it yet and I am almost certain that there are no declared strategic objectives, nor for these new councils that are now being set up, the councils cannot give their full purpose, and as long as we do not have any strategic goals, no strategy that was included when Minister Zlatar Violic took over the ministry was announced. It is also very important to say that a conflict of interest is legalised in this bill of law, i.e. by amendments to the law. The conflict of interest is legalised in the fact that today he can be a man appointed by the council, sit in that council, but he says he must not vote or declare in that programme with which he is connected. Please, if he is sitting in a council with a colleague or colleague, it is very clear that a colleague will support the program from colleagues and colleagues and thus support everyone clean. I won't even say that so far in the councils the villa is an ideal situation. I won't say, however, that problem should have been solved in a different way. Or the possibility of a faster rotation of representatives in the council, which means that you change the members of the council either one year or two years, so that everyone can decide on it and in some way avoid deciding on their own programmes that they have proposed or in a way that they propose to the council their representatives of the largest art culture association, professional organisations as prescribed in the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods, where there is always a representative of the Croatian restaurant institution, which is logical because it is a state institution that has almost five hundred restaurants and conservators and which performs more than 30% of restoration procedures in the Republic. So it's perfectly logical for their metric representative to be in the council, not to in any way drag his programs, because it can't because it's a given quota, but in a way to ensure one institutionally I would say competence. In a public debate I have here, there's no one who said this wasn't legalizing conflicts of interest. No one. Some colleagues and colleagues who took part in the public debate praised certain provisions but there is no one to commend. I'm not saying that the situation used to be ideal, but if it was already going into it, then it had to be solved in the way I suggested. It's completely unclear why you increase the number of members from 5 to 7. It's completely unclear to me. Which requires further financial burden on the ministry that even such small funds that are reduced by their budget to minimum minimums in my opinion add to the ministry's financial burden that it still has to pay for two more members in each council, for what? Well, wasn't it better to include those funds in certain cultural programs? If I am not mistaken, it is stated that the need for the financial need to implement this law will require more than 700 thousand kuna. If you take the proposed culture budget this year, you will see that for the preparation of all the projects that should be applied to EU funds a million kunas, which means that the Council fee eats us to say it almost equally as much as we invest in the preparation of all the projects and we are still expanding the number of members. If we see that the explanation is that we are legalizing a conflict of interest, the explanation that we are a small country, and we simply cannot find enough experts without at the same time being brought into such a situation, then it is completely unclear why a legal obligation is imposed that the councils must be founded in cities that have more than 20,000 inhabitants. If we're already at the state level, we're not able to completely avoid a conflict of interest, and now we're doing it from 20,000 cities and we're asking them to secure financial resources for these councils. I think it would be much more productive if each of these cities that has been mentioned had secured the cost of one bookstore in its center and given it to use someone who would have a way to place both books, and we know the state of both publishing and library systems. I think that would be more effective, it would be more effective if these cities were given the opportunity to invest these funds in a culture infrastructure that doesn't need to be decided through councils in their local museums, in their local galleries, in music schools, in my opinion much more effectively than the orders that the councils have to form. A team before the law is what it was like so far does not defend the establishment of a council on any matter. Thus, any mayor or any council or any congregation could set up a council if there was a problem in culture to take a stand. As we have mentioned that only one million kunas are foreseen for European projects, it is also quite unclear and many of them who have participated in the public debate are completely unclear what the Council for International Fund financing would be dealing with and what profile people in that council should be and by what criteria they will decide. First, because international funds are so diverse and also in the EU you have a Culture Fund and for media that have become a creative Europe since 2014, so you have digitalisation funds, and co-production and various other foundations, etc. Take, for example, a local community or a museum to report for, say, the EU's international funds, a castle in which it has a postaf and asks the Ministry of Culture to assist it in participatory means. There is a Council for Cultural Goods, the most professional people we have in the Republic of Croatia who can decide that. The Council shall include, in that sense, a brand-new application. There are 15 or 17 of them I don't know if I said exactly where public needs programs apply in culture. What will this council serve? So you choose from each variant of one person's seven you won't be able to cover all the kinds of funds that appear. Otherwise, we could ask how many projects in culture have been financed from international funds over the past year or over the past two years? I don't know what he's trying to accomplish. I think it's a good thing that it went to maybe the establishment of a council for cultural amateurism, although we've witnessed before that cultural amateurism was represented in the council that it was represented before. Evidence of this is also a series of entries on the representative list of non-material cultural heritage of UCESCO, and of course this council helped to do so. And I'm not sure that any of these changes and additions will achieve that purpose and the goal that the councils are actually founded for, because they have no strategic objective. It's the main impute that the council had 3, 5, 7, 9 or 15 members must have. In that sense, when it was already going into the amendments and supplementing the law, I think it would be much better if it were, and given that in the amendments and additions there was an opportunity to definitely remove any doubt of conflict of interest, I think we did this in a certain way. And I must also mention that one of the committees has made a very good observation, which is that these financial commitments will be granted to cities between 20,000 and 30,000 inhabitants to apply with the adoption of a new budget, or from the following calendar year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28723	Thank you, too. We have reported four replicas. Igor Coleman picked up first. Here you go, colleague Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28724	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mesic seems to me that your formulation of the legalisation of conflicts of interest which you have used several times is nevertheless significantly exaggerated, and the more you yourself are almost in the same sentence each time admitted that the situation so far as you say was not great, and if we're honest, it was very bad. I am talking about just norming, so this whole story has so far been significantly worse normised than this proposal offers as a solution because so far people are interested in a particular case could participate in the debates, and now this proposal cannot participate in the debate and decision-making. So I think the legalization of conflicts of interest is a far-reaching finding and formulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28725	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here's my colleague Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28726	No, they have not been able to participate in either the vote or the debate so far, it has been resolved on the councils, but I say it is not an ideal situation. The current Culture Minister Mrs Zlatar Violić can testify to this, namely she participated and worked actively in the Culture Ministry Book Council, so she can tell you more about it. This formulation I gave you was written in a public debate on the portal of the Ministry of Culture on more than 10 cases where respected people working in the field of culture have written it several times. So it's not my original product.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28727	Thank you. Next replica, Branko Vuksic. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28728	Dear counterpart Mesic, you have concluded that this law will legalise conflict of interest and I would perhaps go a step further, not to talk about what this law will do, will see the practice, but I would say something about the councils that are the focus of corruption, regardless of the government, but I am talking about the councils themselves. It is difficult in the city of Zagreb, for example, to break through barriers set by interested clans. If you talk to the principals, the leaders of groups of 10, 9 will confirm what I just said. You're often interested in clans and councils. The independent theatre scene therefore goes badly and, let's say, an independent theatre scene in the city of Zagreb, and I believe that still at Croatia level is far worse, it is underrated. Just see how much society invests in the price of a ticket to HNK, in the price of a ticket to an independent theatre group or independent theatre production. It's multiple bigger, not just because they have a cold drive. How many independent scenes today have more viewers, twice as many theatres that have funded either from cities or from the state or from the county. The well-connected individuals are doing well and under the cover of art are doing fantasticly paid business. When the debate is now being discussed in cultural councils, all of this should be kept in mind and respect what the people who are in practice have said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28729	Thank you. And another replica, Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go. I didn't notice the tile. Did you raise your hand? Excuse me, colleague Roxandic. Here you go, mesic, but for the second time please hold your hand in the air for a little while longer then.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28730	Excuse me. I can agree with a lot of what you said about the issue of an independent cultural scene and its financing, etc. means changing the law package, and that includes a strategy, and it seems to me that sooner or later we're going to have to go that way. As far as HNK Zagreb is concerned, the fact is that it is financed for our opportunities in culture with a significant amount of money from either the state or the city of Zagreb. I think his specific place exists. I'm not against cultural institutions, but I'm certainly for an adequate transport financially and every other independent and cultural scene. You could see from the representative of the independent cultural scene for 2012 that he was particularly dissatisfied with the percentage of the finances that were allocated to their activities from both the city and the ministry, so I think there's still a big job ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28731	Thank you. And replica Ivanka Roksandić, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28732	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mesic, I think you've opened another question that I've seen, and it's important, and that's another obligation that may not be directly imposed on small units of local self-government because we've now reduced the fact that cultural councils have to set up units of local self-government that have 20,000 inhabitants. You've listed some of them, so I'm going to set a concrete example. The deputy minister is among the others in those 7 who now have, according to the last list, listed the city of Petrinja, and I will tell you something. The town of Petrinja singles out about a million and 600 thousand kunas for the regular work of its Croatian home or the mere open university, which means the center for culture one, then its libraries a billion and 200 million kuna and for all programmes, so events all that take place in the city and for the activity and amateurism and all possible activities in the culture about 500 thousand kuna. If you single out what is regular, then 950,000 kunas are public needs in culture in the city of Petrinja, and now a council like that is being established. I would be free to suggest something else, not that a city that has 20 or smaller units has to, perhaps a richer unit of local self-government will be able and with a smaller number of inhabitants to establish a cultural council or one cultural council, how much they make a decision, but I think this is an unnecessary imposition, another imposition, and every day we make amendments and additions to laws in which we only impose some obligations on our cities and municipalities, I mean financial obligations, and I don't have the means to do that. You'd be happier if we gave some cultural artistic society to these councils and this one, so we'd encourage cultural amateurism, and I'll tell you why, because in their public needs you have some societies getting 5.6 thousand kuna a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28733	Time. Thank you. Replication response, colleague Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28734	I think you said very well Mrs. Roksandić about specific examples and you know the problems in financing cultural activities in Petrinja regarding the local museum, about the gallery, etc. You are also familiar with the problems of funding other cultural programs in larger cities than Petrinja, like Sisak. We are with the help of local self-government and that practically local self-government could not find the means to cover the roof of the gallery in an adequate way to take care of all the cultural programs that were proposed. Now imagine this cost further to the council, which means that the funds for cultural programs are automatically reduced. It seems to me that it is not the right effect to promote cultural activities in the local environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28735	Thank you. And the last replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy. A microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28736	Excuse me, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mesic, you said to quote this is actually this legal proposal to legalise conflicts of interest. I would add to that that so far, so legalization of conflicts of interest that has not been legalized so far. In fact, do you think that even so far it has not been or do you think that any legislative proposal will not remove what I say in some way is important when it comes to conflict of interest, regardless of what the legal provisions try to prevent. So, conflict of interest when Croatia is a relatively small country, a small country where private, business and family ties are actually so intertwined and some other connections that it is actually almost impossible not to have a conflict of interest. In culture, I'm talking about cultural councils and some other thank God areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28737	Thank you. The reply to the replica Jasen Mesic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28738	I have made it very clear that the full history of this law, I have made it very clear that it is now and in the past and while such an aversion of the law that there have been situations that were not most transparent in the matter of conflict of interest. I don't have a problem saying that, but look now, Mr. Grubisic. Now that's what the explicits say that you're opening up a huge opportunity with. Imagine a council, for example, for a book. There may be five representatives of publishing companies inside, and imagine that they make a decision to finance only the programmes proposed by five publishing companies. And do you know how many people work in the publishing sector in the Republic of Croatia? Over 10,000. Let's imagine a hypothetical situation like that. And according to the law, it's in accordance with the law. I think that if you already wanted to reduce the possibility of conflict of interest then you needed to reduce the number of council members, not increase it or expand it further to cities of 20,000 people. I think we did exactly the opposite. And again I'm not saying that it's just my remark, but that of all those who participated in the public debate. I think that's particularly disturbing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28739	Thank you. On behalf of SDP Representatives Club Ana Komarić Devčić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28740	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Minister. At the very beginning, I would like to say that the SDP club will support amendments and additions to the Law on Cultural Councils. As counterpart Mesic said, therefore, the Law on Cultural Councils was passed in 2004. Less changes and additions were experienced in 2009, and what I would like to say is that nearly 10 years of law enforcement could have seen its advantages, but could have seen its shortcomings as well. Under this law, cultural councils were established at the Ministry: Cultural Councils for Music and Music-Site Arts, Cultural Council for Drama Arts, Book and Publishing Council, the Council for Fine Arts, the Council for Media Culture, and the Council for International Cultural Cooperation and European Integration. In addition, local and regional self-government units have established councils in one, in some more, which have actually made proposals in creating public needs in culture when making budgets for individual units of local or regional self-government, as well as in developing strategies and thinking and creating cultural policies of local self-government units. What was seen as a lack of existing law is, in fact, the choice of members of the cultural council, especially in those units of local self-government in which we had, therefore, several cultural councils, given the restrictive criteria in this current law, which practically prevented the assembly of cultural councils from the most prominent cultural workers and artists. Because Article 4 of the applicable law was limited in the selection of the same members, so the units of local self-government as well as regional government were experiencing a number of problems when putting them together. Thus, the development of contemporary art and culture has led to the need to expand the council's workarounds to cover all areas of cultural and artistic creation, so we believe that amendments and additions to the law are necessary. What exactly do we do with this law? This law regulates the cultural council that will act at the ministry. So, new cultural councils are being added. The number of cultural council members shall then be determined, the possibility of having five or seven members of the cultural councils shall be opened and the conflict of interest shall be settled. We're just aware that this issue will cause the most controversy. And we at the SDP club think that this is a good proposal precisely for the reason that I have already cited, which is that the units of local or regional self-government have had a number of problems in assembling their cultural councils and selecting therefore members of cultural councils. Because if we want the best people to be members of the cultural council, then we need to be aware that they work somewhere, that they work through an association or on their own. Since some units of local self-government have one council, but some have more councils, so, for example, The city of Dubrovnik, the town of Rijeka, the town of Pula, some counties, so when we were assembling we had big problems I will say it on the example of the city of Rijeka. If we have 7 councils per 5 members it is 35 people, now take the territory of the city of Rijeka and take away all those people who work and operate in some associations, operate in some institutions or act independently, and apply to the budget of the city of Rijeka. So we've automatically thrown out a huge number of people who actually need to act and work through cultural councils. And what's going on? Given the financial situation in the city budgets, it happens that you have to reach out to members who, of course, don't come from your town. This, of course, increases the cost of a member of the cultural council itself and from what I have just said, we believe that this solution is therefore a member of the cultural council who is interested in a particular project cannot participate in the debate and cannot vote on this project is one good or at least a compromise solution that solves the problem in the units of local self-government. We also support the proposal to set up councils in the area of cities that therefore have more than 20,000 inhabitants. We believe that this will strengthen and encourage cultural and artistic creation in the area of those units that have not been committed so far. Finally, I would like to mention this, and my colleague Mesic also mentioned in Article 10 of these amendments and the addition of the laws, it is said that the representative body of the city, which has more than 20 thousand inhabitants, brings an act on the establishment of a cultural council and the procedure for implementation within 120 days of the date of entry into force of this law. Since local elections are going, I don't know how fast you think about going to second reading, but since local elections and budgets are coming in this year, and this once again burdens local self-government units, I think we should leave a deadline maybe for 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28741	Thank you, thank you. Replica, Jasen Mesic. Here's my colleague Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28742	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The first time I picked up a replica board was because the first law was passed in 2001, not 2004. So, I said that at a time when Minister Vujic was, and if that were the case, as you said your colleagues, Minister Vujic would probably have introduced such a formulation in the election proposal of the law, as well as Minister Biskupic in the second version of the law. Believe me, and then there was a very difficult debate. Another thing I'm replicating is that in cities between 20,000 and 30,000 inhabitants, it will improve cultural activity. They won't, because they'll spend money on council fees, and they'll reduce the possibility of a quantity of funds for cultural programs for sure. You cited an example that you had a problem in Rijeka which is one of the largest cities in the Republic of Croatia forming a council. And I'm also telling you that this could be solved in such a way as to limit time participation in certain cultural councils. If you limit yourself to a year, in two and that way we'd all come to be able to talk about... Now imagine the situation of the gentleman who represents, who should decide on some kind of cultural programme coming out of the meeting where it is decided, the 4 remaining or 6 remaining members of the programme then decide and he returns. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then he should decide on their programs when another colleague comes out. So let me see the situation that someone will vote against someone's proposed program. It's simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28743	Thank you. She's got a saying when a man takes his eyes off the finish line, he sees only obstacles. The next debate on behalf of the HNS Club is Igor Coleman. And I'm sorry, I'm sorry, colleague Devci. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28744	Thank you. I answered. Maybe you didn't see. My friend Mesic, I can agree with you in part. Maybe it's very awkward or something, but I'm just telling you an example so I'm not telling you what's going on at the Ministry of Culture, in the councils that work at the Ministry of Culture. I'm very clearly telling you about the problems of local self-government units that had more than one council because they tried to get the best people in each council, and it became impossible. You can't do more than 30, you know what 35 people mean to the highest-quality people? I'm sure they're working somewhere, they must be part of an association, they must have come forward and applied to public needs, and then you're in a situation where you actually have the composition of a cultural council somewhere outside, or from another city. That was possible while the economic situation was better. Now it's almost impossible because it costs a lot. It is not the same to have a member of a cultural council from the same city or someone who comes to you from Osijek or Split. That's what it costs. And I think this might be a compromise solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28745	On behalf of HNS Representative Igor Coleman. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28746	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, dear Deputy and Assistant Minister. This will probably come as a shock to you, but the HNS will support this bill for the following reasons, and most of these are listed by counterpart Mesic only we have the opposite view of things than has been said so far. So, the first thing that this law foresees is the establishment of 2 new cultural councils. One is the Council for Cultural Art Amateurism, the other is the Council for the Financing of International Projects. That's what we think is good for each other. As for the establishment of councils for cultural and artistic amateurism so far, only in law was there a provision to encourage such activities. Unfortunately, in Croatia we always encourage and support something and then it becomes little or nothing, so this establishment of a council is certainly a concrete step in the right direction. As for the Council for the financing of international projects, we also consider it important and it does not seem to overlap with its function, with the Council for International Cultural Cooperation, because it is two separate and actually different types of business. After all, various members are asked there with different qualifications in some way for these councils and we have talked on several occasions and when we talked about the culture budget and about financing culture in Croatia that it is certainly one of the priorities of cultural policy at the moment and there will be more and more in Croatia to find various other ways of financing culture other than these classic conservative, standard budgets whether it was a state budget, whether it was local budgets. We also support the possibility of establishing new councils because, of course, life brings some practice and some experience, and this opens up the possibility that we don't have to go to law change every time we estimate that it's good to set up an additional council. As for increasing the number of council members from 5 to 7, it is not prescribed that it must be, it is only possible, it also seems like a good decision and a good proposal precisely because of these provisions to prevent conflicts of interest so that we can ensure the functioning of the councils in situations where some members cannot participate in the debate and vote. And that, of course, is where we come to the key provision of this law, the key change. That's what we've all been talking about, and I won't say it again. Every case in the HNS seems to us, and we are convinced that this way of regulating matter is a conflict of interest, so the disabling of those members when they were able to participate in the debate, so it is certainly a better variant. I can't argue and I won't argue that this is the best solution under the sun, but surely it's a much better solution and a much better step ahead than we've had so far. Also this novelty of 20 thousand, about cities that have 20,000 inhabitants, which will now also have an obligation to establish cultural councils, seven cities have already been mentioned by Deputy Šipus, Križevci, Virovitica, Zaprešić, Petrinja, Kutina, Sinj and Požega. When we list them like this, it's all really serious cities, some of them already have a serious cultural offer. And my colleague, Roxandic, you won't be angry that I'm here to answer to you in some way. But you mentioned Petrinja, we should try to get out of that shallow way of thinking. Perhaps the establishment of a cultural council in Petrinja will just contribute to making budget money spending on culture more efficient than it has now been. So perhaps this cultural council with its quality, its focus on cultural issues in the city of Petrinja as well as in all of these other cities that we have listed may lead to Petrinja spending less money than she has spent on a culture with a higher quality effect or at least for the same money having a better cultural offer. In any case, it seems to us that this provision is certain that in these seven cities it will contribute to cultural life and ultimately through that and the general standard of living of citizens in these cities. So, the changes proposed by this law seem useful and tailored to us in the HNS, and the need to implement systematic cultural policy in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28747	Thank you, too. Three reported replicas. The first one came to Jasen Mesic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28748	Thank you. I will no longer return to conflicts of interest, but I will bring to you on another reading concrete parliamentary issues which have been raised since then by the opposition two, three years ago for individual situations in cultural councils, what I said was neither in the past nor in the past, and you will see who all the MPs and SDPs have been asking me these questions, which is completely contrary to what you've been saying now. And as for the councils you mentioned I said, that's not true. I mentioned that if you have a council for international cultural co-operation that has its own application, if there is a project that is being reported by the Ministry to participate in co-financing, and it is being reported further. If the programme is of cultural heritage, then it is most measurable that the expert judgment in the value of this cultural good should be given to the Council for Cultural Heritage. If he is from the area of contemporary dance, then a council for contemporary dance in this sense, to exploit the professional resources that no doubt exist in the councils, and then it is absolutely unnecessary to return it to another council that will then once again cut it. And at the same time, you have established the possibility that in this council, there will be again someone who will have a certain interest in some programme to be co-financed earlier by the Ministry of Culture in order to obtain funds from the EU Funds. So in my view, a completely unnecessary team is that the funds are extremely diverse, there are many more than the kind of councils that are proposed in this version of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28749	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28750	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have no doubt in my uncle's mind that there have been a lot of questions in previous mandates about the council's functioning and I look forward to these parliamentary issues. That is why it seems to me that the solution that the current Government and the Ministry of Culture are proposing is better than what we have now and there will be fewer such issues in the future. As far as the project funding council is concerned, I don't really understand this last sentence. You're telling yourself that the funds have a lot more than there are councils. Well, of course there is, which is why we need a council to deal primarily with international funding for projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28751	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28752	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a clue to the discussion of the esteemed colleague Coleman, and here's the commendation he gave for the changes they say are useful, and I'd only add one word to that question, and that's just to whom it's useful. So, if you talk about a much better solution which is also a quote compared to before, I see here that there is only a solution to increasing the number of cultural councils and that for cultural and artistic amateurism and financing international projects. If we are already on that this is a better solution, so by increasing the number of councils, let's even increase the number of councils and separate the Council for Music, secondly, the Council for Music Scene Arts as we medicine specialists would separate the specialist for the left eye and the specialist for the right eye and specialist for the left nostril or the right nostril, etc. So that we have as many councils as possible is that very good. That's a much better solution than you say. And in fact, it's about the budget for these two new councils being 750 thousand kuna from the Ministry of Culture. So when we see that there are 8 councils in total, that means 3 million kunas are being allocated because these two new ones are still being added, so about 3 million kunas of all councils have a certain budget and cost. Well, if that's better, I really agree if it's better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28753	Thank you. The answer to my colleague Coleman's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28754	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I quote "for the implementation of this law, funds are planned in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia amounting to 744 thousand 600 kuna per year, which will finance the costs of working the former as well as two new cultural councils". So we're not talking about 3 million, but we're talking about those 744 grand we've planned in that budget with these councils or without those councils that we're bringing in now, so that part doesn't hold water. As for a better solution, and for whom is this solution better? It is better for all people living in the Republic of Croatia because if we succeed systematically in implementing the cultural policy of the Republic of Croatia then all citizens of this country will have more or less, directly or indirectly but benefits from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28755	Thank you. And Ivanka Roksandic's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28756	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Coleman, you obviously didn't understand me very well. I told you and my rep colleague Mesic that I think this is unfair to the units of local self-government with 20,000 inhabitants that they must have a council. And I'll bet she can have a council, 'cause I'd also ask a question, so why not 10,000 residents? And she pointed out that it is very difficult in small communities in which there are not enough people who would eventually be appointed council members, because they must be extremely people who have achieved certain achievements in their artistic creation in order to satisfy what you say. I'm looking at it quite realisticly because I'm coming to a real and smaller environment where there are no people who could possibly do it. That's why I'm betting he can do it, but I don't have to determine the law that it has to be. We're pushing one more thing. And while I'm at it, you've seen in the transitional and final provisions that if this law is adopted, and now it's the first reading, so I must base it in these environments that I've talked about within 120 days. So I'm asking if the law is passed in this session somewhere in March means you're already imposing a obligation on units of local self-government that should not have those councils in their budgets to secure funds for the work of these councils.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28757	Thank you. The answer to my colleague Coleman's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28758	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I've actually expressed my thesis and I'm still standing behind it as a real possibility is that the establishment of cultural councils in those cities contributes to a more efficient allocation of resources for culture. You have listed several million kunas that the city of Petrinja singles out for various variations for what culture is or is pushed under culture, the establishment of such a council could probably contribute to making this money more efficient and efficient. I have deliberately read these 7 cities after Deputy Šipush has already listed them once just to show by listing their names that it is serious cities in the Republic of Croatia and that it is unserious that such cities do not have cultural councils and, of course, in this context, I find this proposal absolutely justified. As far as your question is concerned, why not cities with 10,000 inhabitants? I can only answer you why not. Why not? The Cultural Council is something a city that is thought to be a city should probably have even if it has 10,000 inhabitants. So that's what level we're going to go to. But I can agree with that, why not for 10,000 residents. As far as the 120-day deadline is concerned, it can be agreed that this is probably something in view of the budgets that should be considered absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28759	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28760	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, and he wants you to help me with my pen, but I did manage with HDZ. Namely, why not the municipalities? Gacin municipality has 8 cultural artistic societies. Folklore ensembles, men's singing groups, women's singing groups, amateur theaters, and I don't know what not. So why don't we start all 435 municipalities a cultural council. Well, Croatia is a cultural country known for its tradition, a European old country. Why shouldn't I have all 125 cities? So we won't look at 10, 20 thousand, now why 10 or 20, we have Kutjevo with 5 thousand inhabitants the oldest city almost in Croatia founded in 1232 and Kutjevo has no cultural council, and Požega has. Well, it's not the turn. In addition, why not burden the budgets of the local self-government units and the region with new imposings, why not impose on the cities of 5,10,15,20,50 thousand to have new commitments with the cultural council. Why don't we change the divorce alliance or when we talk to 5 or 7 members of the cultural council, which in law exists or if it can be 5 and can be 7. Why 5 or? The law doesn't say either, then you leave space for it to be this or that, or 5 or 7 or 6. Therefore, the Law on Cultural Councils, namely what exactly is called the Amendment Law and the amendment of the Law on Cultural Councils, should be complemented, it really needs to be complemented, and it needs to be brought back to these benches. There is anticipating the creation of new two councils at the Ministry of Culture, one dealing with the area of financing international projects, and the other is a special council for cultural and artistic amateurism. I'm just wondering how cultural and artistic amateurism existed at all, and here I am singing in the men's singing group of Starotopoljans, I don't know how we survived without the cultural council of the Municipality of Andrievci Donji. I guess now we'll have a better repertoire, we'll sing better, and we'll probably have better funding. Unless the cultural council brings us a little coin that we get from the municipality of Lower Andrians. Well, I don't think it would be bad, but there's no colleagues here, Coleman, to put in an amendment when that's the case, that the cultural councils act without compensation and without reward. All members, either five or seven of them, as it says here nicely with this dissociative ally or. Another amendment, that all members of the cultural councils act without compensation and without reward because they are cultural enthusiasts and want to deal with it, wants to be members of the cultural council. From the state of Croatia to the cities of 10.20 or 429, we have another new one according to someone here from the SDP to change the borders of the municipalities. So around 430, it is never known how many municipalities there are in Croatia. The kind of stuff that's being brought in like this, and that's one little drop, as much as it says 100,000 euros, to cut it short. But the old folk proverb said, "stone by stone of palace, grain by grain of cake." It's good when it flows, when it's created, but when it's parted, when it's spent grains per grain or 100 thousand euros or 750 kuna, then it's not good, because even the Swiss state couldn't handle this kind of expansion, the revision of the law, or what it's already called in this nomotechnical sense. The cities that are mentioned here are located somewhere and have a population of over 20,000, so well, it is nice to mention here and that maybe it actually gets some points in Petrinja, Virovitica, Sinj, Požega, Kutini, Križevci, etc. who have never had a cultural council before, and now they're going to have them, so there they are. But I wonder what she said in one line, I think Mrs. Tyrelli will finance all that. Or if elections take place within 3.5 months, about 19 May of this year, as will be included in the budgets of cultural councils when the budgets are adopted or not adopted as in Slavonski Brod, then the SDP Commissioner can make such a decision in Brod but in other cities that have more than 20,000 inhabitants cannot. The legalization of the conflict of interest that Mr Mesic spoke of where he really looked extensively at the debates that preceded the adoption and proposal of these amendments of the law, so I think that there will always be and not only will we and Croatia be, but God and light, or as they say. Therefore, we will find it difficult to avoid such a thing, conflict of interest because as I have already said before, and to repeat, we are a small country where interests would not be intertwined in any form, in any form, in private, business, family, and I don't know what everything is, and all this reflects not only on culture, this time I'm talking about culture, but also on public procurement and on concessions getting and on everything else, and so on and on in culture. Culture can't escape conflict of interest like any other area in this country. Clearly, our goal is to be really zero or at least close to it, how it likes someone to say zero tolerance of conflict of interest, but it's hard to imagine and do, even with this legal proposal, workable. But that is why we are in doubt what to do in voting with this law. Of course they were always interested clans, they were groups, they were interest groups that had their own people, infiltration, etc. in the councils of culture so you can say something. We'll wait for another reading and then we'll decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28761	Thank you. The Republic has a colleague, Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28762	Thank you, Madam President. So I wanted to ask my colleague Grubisic not to simplify to the point of saying so to the level of insult of members of the boards of directors, or cultural councils. Well, I guess not all people in Croatia who are in cultural councils are just for cultural council fees. I guess these people are there to give their professional knowledge and their experience to the service of public interest, and my colleague Grubisic could tell me if they are in Osijek-Baranja County and the city of Osijek where his party is acting in power whether these members are without compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28763	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28764	Thank you very much. Comrade Komadin, there is still a carnival in Rijeka. I'm not from Osijek-Baranja County but from Brod-Posavina, so I'm even doing it so well in the Cultural Council in Slavonski Brod that I didn't even know it existed. They're so quiet, they're calm, they're nice, I don't know, and I don't know about Osijek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28765	It is the turn of the Croatian Labour Party club, a colleague of Nansi Tyreli's. Here you are, colleague Jasen Mesic. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28766	I believe Mr. Grubisic saw me lift my line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28767	It's not a problem. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28768	There were not many objections about conflicts of interest to the work of cultural councils. There were thousands of programs every year there were one, two or three objections. Of course, however, this was in a way that could not be avoided to the end. However, I guess the tendency to go towards a better and main argument about my claim is not by myself or by working for more than ten years at the Ministry of Culture, but by drawing from the debates of the people who participated in the public debate. And as for how you will see very clearly if this has been realized, you will see after the first decisions of these councils. You will be fully aware when you see which applications are supported. And I don't know, since you're particularly interested in Slavonia and Baranja and I for all of Croatia, you'll see how many programs will be, how the programmes from certain activities have passed, and then you'll see if what I've been saying has a reason or no reason. It may then be clearer to you whether to support the law, these amendments and complements or not to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28769	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28770	Mr Mesic, as you took care of all of Croatia, we all know that while you were in the government and Deputy Minister. So, pardon the minister even. Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't even know. You've been so secretive. Namely, you are obviously familiar with the conflict of interest and that because you were on the face of the place – on the spot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28771	Comrade Grubisic, you do not have to comment on what he was and what our colleague Mesic was like. Here you are, fellow Mesic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28772	The Rules of Procedure of the Vice-President of Article 216 have been injured. Although Mr Grubisic said exactly that I am self-sufficient. That part is correct, but I'm surprised that here's the need to call for a sector in the Government of the Republic of Croatia that I think worked very well. I am particularly proud of the contribution of the Ministry of Culture at a time when I worked in the area of Slavonia and Baranja. I was particularly proud of it when, for example, a Vienna man was listed on a list of immaterial cultural heritage. I am particularly proud of the Vukovar – Vukedol – Ilock project which is now being worked in the Ministry of Culture, so I really don't think your statement was correct, Mr Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28773	Thank you very much. We're still in breach of the Rules of Procedure, polymizing. But now Boro Grubisic also has a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and neither was this a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Now we'll hear what the Rules of Procedure was hurt in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28774	Dear Madam Vice President, I use the same article 216 and in this regard, it says: "The representative does not stick to the subject he discusses in his speech." So I didn't tell Mr. Mesic that he was a cheap hand to Slavonia, and that's what he's talking about. So here's Article 216. He was a great minister and we worked well together. But I said he was well-versed, given that he was a minister in connection with everything he said. I have done nothing to hurt the Rules of Procedure and, above all, conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28775	And now you have not said in accordance with the Rules of Procedure what a violation of the Rules of Procedure is because your colleague Mesic did not say what kind of minister he was and you evaluated him. Let's move on with the debate. Comrade Tyrelli, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28776	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, my dear Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, we've heard a lot about this law. We're more or less about the same topics. However, here we have 10, 12 articles of the new law, and that is what we are talking about. It is a pity that it is not also a alignment with the EU and the directives. We'd probably bring it in faster then and we'd know better than we knew yesterday when we were talking about the Electricity Market Act. All right. All the time we've been discussing how difficult it is, that is, these changes were mostly brought about because we're having trouble finding members of the cultural council, which is why they're not in conflict of interest. So far we've had six cultural councils at the ministry, now we have eight. So it's a new cultural and artistic amateurism and the International Project Finance Council, which means that for all these 8 cultural councils, if we stick to these five, we need a total of 40 people. I really do not believe that in Croatia we do not have 40 capable, quality, good, cultural workers who could, given what they have accomplished in their lives, each of them, or 5 of them sitting in one of these councils that the law proposes. It's about the council at the Ministry of Culture. The problem with municipalities and cities is increasing, and I agree with my colleague Anna, who has previously warned about these problems. So far, cultural committees have been working in municipalities on municipal councils. The same cultural committees also operate in cities, and we can consider them to be those very cultural councils in one part. However, I think you'll agree almost all of you will agree with me when I say that these committees and these very people who are on these committees often have absolutely no tools to influence what cultural events are going to happen in a particular city or in a particular municipality. Unfortunately, these members were written declaratively only to satisfy the form and from my own experience, I say that, let's say, by the allocation of last year, the necessary funds for culture came to the very board of 19 members in a town with a list of those who reported to the competition who would finance with what amount. So that's our truth in a large number of municipalities or cities that's how we function. We have bright examples, however, and in these bright examples, so to speak, where these board members can decide independently on certain criteria and allocate certain budgets for certain events, we come to a situation that in one term, these same projects always repeat themselves, that always the same people get the necessary funding, and that all new and excellent projects do not come in order because there is simply no money. This must be another cost for local self-government units. It should certainly wait with the law to apply only from 1.01 next year. In the fifth month we have local elections, if it goes before that, it may happen that a certain mayor, the mayor, makes cultural councils, the money is not in the cultural positions planned for this expenditure and I think that as proposings, you should also keep an account as well. What is not clear to me to the Council for the financing of international projects in the explanation is that, in the new circumstances, it is very important that you explain to me, in the area of funding for international projects which has not been put into the task of any council, that in the name of the promoter, you explain to me later in your address whether it means that this council will help in realising, or writing or agreeing to say pre-accession funds, or that you may have considered in the context that this council would be good precisely because we have heard that there have been a lot of competitions that have been called before, and they are related to culture that perhaps this council has a task in some way to inform or in one place to do so which the competitions may be possible and should be notified. Here, I am personally pleased that the Council for Cultural and Art Amateurism has been particularly developed because we are all witnessing that right now amateur clubs and cultural associations are active, that more and more are taking up cultural space and not just in small municipalities, not only in small towns but that they are very active in the areas of the county, that they participate in the realisation of very large projects because they have clearly learned how to do this and here they have shown how to be bold and able. Once again, I think that by talking about a problem for five members, or seven of them by the Council of the Ministry of Culture, I think it simply doesn't stand because I don't think that everyone who deals with culture is the owners of some institution that performs cultural activity, and yet on the other hand, I think that we have very good people, quality people, on the condition that we're slowly trying to get some kind of nepotism and some kind of fixed culture about sharing funds for culture might be here to avoid or bypass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28777	We're moving on to replicas. The first is Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28778	Dear colleagues of Tyrelli, I really don't know what you were talking about to the committees of culture, or I understood what you wanted to tell us here, but I'm really going to talk from the local self-government unit from which we come and practice. So, the Committee on Culture is the working body of the City Council. And the Committee on Culture does not put forward a proposal for public needs for culture, so the cultural councils come forward with a proposal for a programme that will be financed and the amount of money and they exist as an integral part of the budget of the city of Rijeka. We really have cultural councils assessing the programmes and telling us how much money these programmes have to finance. For example, 900 programmes appeared in Rijeka last year for the 2013 budget. I really don't think a culture committee could study and determine which programs are for co-financing and how much money, and that's why I think that we need cultural councils in this way, and in this sense, I don't really know your experience because I think we need cultural councils very much and that they're actually good at having them as we do in public need in sport, the Rijeka Sports Union is giving us a proposal to finance public needs in sport. I think it's correct because it's actually professional people who know best what to finance in culture and sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28779	Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28780	I agree with you in that section and I know how the Council of Culture works in Rijeka. I'm talking about those small municipalities because all the time we're going through is how good it would be if these municipalities and these small towns mean towns with less than 20,000 inhabitants have these cultural councils. First and foremost, what I was going to say is that it will be a financial burden and secondly all these tasks are in some way taking place in these small municipalities through these Committees on Culture. I am now telling you from the experience of municipalities that have three, four thousand inhabitants, there is a Committee on Culture where these board members bring in exactly those programs that are needed either by cultural or sports programmes that should be satisfied by that budget that is becoming smaller and smaller every day. So if we now have a cultural council that should be decided on, so we have the spending of certain funds again, in most cases the board members are volunteers under this law here, saying that the members of the cultural council have a fee, the re-determination of that fee is again decided by the mayor, mayor or mayor. So these are all these costs where in these small units local self-government should simply be considerate and we cannot put it in the same context as the city of Rijeka, with Split, with Zagreb or not with the Ministry of Culture, and this same law applies to all these levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28781	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28782	Dear colleagues, there are 550 local units in Croatia. What you were saying, I totally understand. How? It's hard not even to operate those 550 local units, let alone when we complicate things at the very core. It is true that cultural committees can carry out tasks intended for cultural councils. Those who have dealt with culture, who know how decisions are made in smaller cities which will be financed, how they will be financed. For example, does anyone think that there are so many people who will be sitting on the Committee on Culture in one of the Čakovec or in another small town, professional people should also be on the Committee on Culture, why there should be unprofessional people and then still have a cultural council. It is certainly one of the things that you were talking about, which is that before the local elections, it would be politically incorrect and economically incorrect to establish those councils because there is first no money in the budget of the other government that in many local units will no longer renew that obligation they are carrying out now. Therefore, it is absolutely safe to have a date of 1.1.2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28783	It's Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28784	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate. I will actually speak my discussion from the aspect of my local unit of local self-government, from the aspect of the city of Dubrovnik, or as deputy mayor who behaves in this area of culture. I think that the cultural council really is an excellent step in terms of transparency and democratisation of culture financing, and also on the other side of depolitisation. Why do I say that? It is precisely because the role of cultural councils in the process of adopting, killing the involvement of civil society, including other representatives of professional associations or independent scenes. How important this law is for the entire funding system is exactly an amendment to this law, and this law today needs to be actually in terms of improvement. Here today we have heard examples of doubt about this improvement but we have also not heard suggestions for improvement that could be accepted in this sector. As regards the members of the cultural council themselves, they can accept funding in their assessments, then accept funding if they have funds in the budget or do not accept it. It is therefore stated here and before such persons who are members of the cultural council should be professional, should be fair, should be correct. However, I agree with all those who have discussed that it is very difficult to avoid subjectivity in such people. It's a human characteristic that's hard to avoid. So in this case, when we talk about a conflict of interest on the one hand, if we need to have a profession, professional people in these cultural councils, on the other hand, to be just not to go into conflicts of interest, then I believe that for now this is the way that is proposed acceptable. If someone shows me another way, a different way of making a possible solution, then I'll think about that other option. For now, this is acceptable to me. This is one flexible way to resolve this relationship between expertise and avoiding conflicts of interest. I welcome the fact that the border has been moved by 30,000 inhabitants for those units of local self-government that have 30,000 inhabitants of 20,000 inhabitants to form cultural councils. But the cultural council so I realized, let the Deputy Minister correct me if I misunderstood, there must be five cultural councils and I don't know how many, there can be one cultural council in the small community. Of course there will be a selection of cultural council members such as to satisfy all resources. Also, as far as the number you're suggesting goes from five to seven, and that's where I disagree, maybe we could stay at the same number that was so far, because I think that if you have more cultural councils that such a number can satisfy that role they have. And now that we are looking at the practice of what is done, the evaluations that have been made by applying for public needs in culture are being considered, and then the evaluation is being accepted by local self-government or the Department of Culture, and therefore the measures proposed by the city council are, in fact, being proposed. That way, as a local self-government, it's much easier for us because politicians don't think they're competent to decide on culture that it's better actually, and this way I think that cultural councils are a relief to local self-government. So I'd say we were saying is that a burden for local self-government? I'd say this is an incentive to strengthen human capacities at local level, and capacity is essentially human. There's been a speech to the fund council and we're wondering how much money will be spent on that, too, by the time? Did we ask ourselves the opposite, what can, how much can these people withdraw from European funds for certain areas of culture? Therefore, I finally support these changes and additions for all those reasons that I have cited, and as far as conflict of interest is concerned, if someone proposes different solutions, perhaps through another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28785	A clear Mesic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28786	Well, I wouldn't agree with a distinguished colleague if there weren't any other suggestions. Yeah, it's either a faster rotation of council members per year, two to be on the council so that I can then give my proposals to the council and others to professional associations to elect council members. It could be a second proposal. And as for the fact that the councils have made positive decision-making effects in culture, I couldn't agree more. Otherwise, they say that the best and most democratic decision-making on cultural programmes is when they are decided by associations. Let's say the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities and it would be much better if they always decided on the means that are collected from the heritage and then they had to co-finance themselves in the heritage of course with the implementation of the public tender.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28787	The answer to Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28788	You were talking about fast rotation, you know the way cultural councils are chosen that this is a process that goes from public call to actual confirmation through the city council, I'm talking about units of local self-government. So it's a process of such a rapid rotation, I don't think it's a solution to this problem that you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28789	And Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28790	Dear colleagues, it's about us taking one step back. It is said this way "a member of the council who is directly interested in making a decision on a matter", I will repeat because it does not understand "who owns or participates in the management of a legal person", and they were unable to participate before. This is the director of the Gavela Drama Theatre, but it can also be carried to the Dubrovnik Theatre, leaving the hall when it comes to the budget of the theatre and then his colleagues sitting with him for 4 years. It's a farce. How will he decide that? Then he won't or I don't know I was alone from the first days when Lero Theatre was founded, which is the beginner of many great things in Croatia's theatre life since the years of young Theatre in Dubrovnik, which unfortunately is no more, if he sits there representative of the theatre whether Davor Mojš will treat him like he's gone. He's present in that hall, although physically he's gone. I'm talking here, you're talking too abstractly, you say we are, we're going to make policy as little as possible. You think that in the city of Zagreb, in any council, the committee is doing anything without Bandic deciding on it, and later Ljuština, any.... Well, you're all like that with Dubrovnik, and you don't think the mayor has any influence on decisions in Dubrovnik. The thing is, we're going to spend more money, and the thing is, we're going to complicate it and it's given it such an important thing that you're doing it before the election. I don't see the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28791	Replication response, Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28792	Thank you very much. Well, sir, we've just done a depolitisation on public needs in culture through cultural councils, even so much that they don't just decide on the programme at the time when it decides on the programme, but even during the year when we get it, we receive some kind of request from any civil society, any other associations, etc. And that's when it all goes through the cultural council. So, we've really done a proper depolitisation as far as these decisions are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28793	We're continuing the debate. There's a colleague named Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28794	Madam Vice President, I must appeal to you or to you. In fact, I've been raising a plate for the breach of the Rules of Procedure so that you haven't given me a word I can only take as your transparency because you've seen that I'm going to discuss it, so now I'm going to say what I mean by "injuring the Rules of Procedure." First, I would ask my fellow laborists and laborists not to mind me because they are very nice and dear to me, but I must admit to envy them because it is clear that you have never acted in any city, municipality or county, so that you know all about it and it is very good when, as a rule, it is a Croatian practice to always do other people's work better, especially if you've never done it. Another thing I wanted to say is that culture is an upgrade, is that upgrade as well as some other activities is not basic production even if culture is produced the same and it cannot be treated as a classic cost. The classic cost of throwing money can only be treated to simplify one who is poor with spirit and no one else. And if there were deviations, tell me the field or the sphere of man's work or the life in which there is no deviation. In fact, the cost is the entire cost side of the budget of the Republic of Croatia and the entire expenditure side of the budget of all cities, municipalities and counties in Croatia, all this is the cost. But legally defined what, why and how. And that's why I can't accept a qualification especially if I told you from the middle of this assembly, that these people in the cultural councils are there just to be for compensation. Of course, every grain has a weed in it, of course, but I doubt we're talking about the majority share of the weeds here. And it's not true what you said that the same law applies to everything, it doesn't apply. He handles different issues, orders one and orders them to have cultural councils, and now it's still expanding for these couples, and it gives others the opportunity to have them. They can be held by whoever they want and the municipality with a thousand inhabitants can give them compensation, it's all about self-rule decision-making. I think the purpose of the cultural council is to assess and assess offers for funding public needs programmes in culture, given that it is an extremely large number, but not just quantitatively, especially qualitatively. With all due respect, I've graduated in thermoenergy, I'm not so sure I can evaluate the execution of the Philharmonics, etc. I'm not sure, I probably wouldn't, or anything else. So give the baby to your mother. If these are the best people, there's probably better ones somewhere, if there's a policy influence, probably there is, in most I know for sure that there isn't. And if someone finally had to make a decision, the decision was made by that council, the esteemed gentlemen and the ladies who spoke. It's not the mayor's decision. These needs go beyond as a proposal from the Committee on Culture, and on a proposal from the cultural councils. The mayor can and doesn't have to give any opinion or suggestion or mayor, and usually no mayor does. At least that's my practice. So I'm saying there's a lot of thesis replacements. This 20,000 to 30,000, or 30 to 20, I mean I told the board that I could accept it if someone was happy, but it's a norm that wasn't needed because you could still have if they wanted to, but let's do this if it's considered an initiative to be in some environments that maybe don't care enough, so let's call it so that a little bit is initiated that these cultural employees are engaged to make it a little better, more or so. But I'm saying, I'm not a supporter of editing by the ministry of the rules of play in cities and municipalities because otherwise I'm bothered by people who don't know what to do with themselves so they don't know how to handle their own questions. So listen, if any city, for example. A Slavonic ship like you noticed, so I'm going to rephrase and correct your false allegations, correct... because you said everything wrong, you don't want to have a cultural council. Well, thank you God doesn't want it, it's their autonomous democratic right, and that's what they're wrong about, I guess they'll be judged by someone in the election. ... Well, they're gonna have to have it now, that's different. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And as for the breach of the Rules of Procedure that I have said before, you, Mr. Grubisic, have injured the Rules of Procedure because you told Mr. Jasen Mesic that he has injured the Rules of Procedure who did not harm the Rules of Procedure and you have injured the Rules of Procedure. And we all know that here in this House. We all know that. As you've replicated to me to forgive me for nothing. I'm the one who said it. You wanted to hear everything wrong. You spoke for the club, if I remember correctly. And when you speak for the club, you speak for your party to forgive, and when you speak for the party, you speak for the party where your own party is on the government. I didn't say Slavonski Brod, but I literally said where your party behaves in power, which is Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County. That's what I said. Well then look at your practice before you interpret what others should do, so I suggest you see again whether you have there, and you have the power of the law of the cultural council to see if they are without compensation, whether they are with compensation before you prove to others that they are in culture only for compensation. Otherwise, I can't understand that kind of trickling of any profession, especially people in culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28795	Three replicas on your colleague's exposure. The first is Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28796	Dear colleague, I fully agree with one of your sentences. You said a lot there was a replacement thesis, so. I agree especially with your speech. A few times, the same sentence was heard here at the Assembly's pay phone. It is repeated both by the parrot and by many members of your party, and you have never acted in authority in any city you are not prepared to take over. We showed up because you guys are bad at it. If you'd done so well, maybe we wouldn't have existed, and it's not true that we didn't exercise power and that we don't have experience. Some members have experience. Secondly, it is not only political experience that is the only experience gained in politics. Because if it were, then you would rule your whole life. What's the election for? We don't need an election. There's a replacement. So your party should remain in power forever. That's what one president said he'd stay in power for 25 or 30 years, yet they didn't. You're here for 2000. I understand little about culture, not much, and I know something about culture in the city of Zagreb and also about the city of Zagreb, and I know that politics influences and influences before and that it will affect and that it will affect even when you no longer exercise power. There's no inefficient policy. But it's about the experience that now, in fact, a second or a third under quotes, a political echelon will decide what the committees have now decided. You know well that on Croatian television is the Programme Council, we cannot evaluate this, they said it was the third set of politicians. This will happen to us in the councils regardless of whether artists or not, as well as good committees can do business if there are competent people in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28797	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28798	Well, I'm Mr. Vuksic's opening statement that I'd ask you not to be offended because I knew you'd react like this. I just told the notorical fact that the vast majority of you weren't being held by the government, and now you're telling me wrong when you replicated that I told you that you wouldn't even know it. That's not what I said. I was first elected, too. I didn't finish school for the mayor. Therefore, each of us would be capable or incapable. So, that's what you said. Listen to the tone footage. But you act like you know everything. I just wanted to say what your right is, of course. For the city of Zagreb, however, it is so easy to qualify. The city of Zagreb is our first capital and largest environment. It has the highest number of cultural institutions with the largest institutional and most likely non-institutional culture, which is going to say legal persons, theatres, I don't know what else it has. But there's also a huge number and legal persons and I don't know the association and they're legal entities dealing with culture. And here we are talking about those who evaluate these public needs and make suggestions for each of them in their own area. So the only way I would agree with Mr. Mesic is to vent it more, which they would say is to change them, because eventually they approach those needs, even if there is a clause to exempt themselves from the decision-making process. It should not be, that there are no subscriptions to the decision. That I agree with and with you who are... But we can't judge that it's bad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is, however, that cultural councils and cultural committees have been introduced that cities or municipalities have just so that politics doesn't decide everything, so that the mayor doesn't propose to whom and how much money he will make. I think so, and now there's a listen to what I said. The weeds are everywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28799	Replica Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28800	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Komadin, I don't think you get it right. You said here mentioning the Slavonic Ship that those cities that will can introduce cultural councils that won't have to. No, I can't, because the law says that cities with 30 and county so far must have, and now we're changing it with 20 and this, and so can those who will. But there's still a limit. So the law is right. One more thing. You said we were much harder to replace here. The Cultural Council is welcome and none of us here has discussed that it is not necessary but that indeed these changes that have been proposed and we have given some improvements and some other proposals speak in the direction that at this point there should have been no change of this law with the more that you have mentioned some committees. I don't know anymore. All I know is that there are cultural councils in cities, municipalities and counties. There are administrative departments that adopt programmes on the proposal of cultural councils, and they propose public needs programmes, and I apologize to the City Councils, or the County Assembly, which adopt public needs programmes. I think you know that, too, you've been a longtime mayor and you know that procedure. So there's nothing unknown about it. And now we're stuck around these cultural councils that I say again we're for cultural councils, but at this point these changes that are being made where people who have potentially companies, publishing houses, private, public theaters that can directly influence their presence, the presence of this cultural council in selecting us here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28801	Replication response, Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28802	Well, look, Mrs. Rocksandic, I'm wrong because I was something, and I'm just gonna be right if I am. Just like my fellow Labourers will be right if they recognize them, right? Therefore, I made it clear that this law and previous law did not put this category of cities and counties that must have councils, and left everyone else with the possibility that they could have councils. So because we don't understand it? These have to, the county centers and over 30,000 now and those of 20 if they adopt this, and the rest of them could have. No one's ever defended Slavonski Brod from having it before, now they'll probably have to have it, so there's over 20 grand, right? I think we understand each other here. ... Well, they're good, so let them have. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So what is Mr. Boro Grubisic rebelling about?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28803	Final word on behalf of the Deputy Minister of Culture, Mr Berislav Šipus.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28804	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, dear MPs and MPs, I would like to thank you today for this debate and very useful suggestions and remarks from all over the country, in particular to warn that it is not called Shikus but Šipus, it would be also good to correct itself, so probably in the second reading and during the second reading, we will address with our explanations and clarifications of all these remarks and your objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28805	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28806	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Cultural Councils, first reading, PZ No. 210, the debate on the bill is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Cultural Councils is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 86 votes, and 41 votes against, have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28807	We move to - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, first reading, P.Z. No. 238 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the proposer of the Deputy Minister of Culture, Prof. Berislav Šipush.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28808	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of honor, dear MPs and MPs, a few words about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media. It proposes to amend and supplement the Electronic Media Act in a way that will address the following issues. First of all, the Law on Electronic Media is in line with the Law on General Administrative Procedure and the Law on Administrative Disputes. Furthermore, it wants to define non-profit audiovisual and radio programmes and non-profit electronic publications as programmes and content of non-profit legal persons, educational and minority institutions and other institutions, student associations, school associations, associations of citizens and other NGOs with legal personality as well as non-profit cooperatives dedicated to meeting the information, educational, scientific, professional, cultural and other needs of the public. In this context, it will be determined that not-for-profit TV and/or radio publishers, i.e. non-profit media service providers referred to in Article 19 of the Media Services on request and 79. The laws on electronic media are satellite, cable, internet transmission of television or radio programmes, and producers of non-profit audiovisual and/or radio programmes and providers of non-profit electronic publications can only be educational and minority institutions and other institutions, i.e. student associations, school associations, associations of citizens or other non-governmental associations with legal personality as well as non-profit cooperatives dedicated to meeting the information, educational, scientific, professional, artistic, cultural and other needs of the public. In addition to this, not-for-profit television and/or radio providers to non-profit media service providers referred to in Article 19 of the Media Services on request and 79. The laws on electronic media are again satellite, cable and internet transmissions of this time television or radio are limited promotional messages to three minutes in an hour. And otherwise, for television, the limit is 12 minutes an hour while for radio as we know there is no limit at all. In addition, these amendments and additions will regulate the co-financing of programmes and content from the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media, thus introducing and co-financing programmes at local and regional level, as well as publishers and non-profit televisions and radios, etc. "third media sector" of non-profit electronic publications, i.e. internet portals, and producers of non-profit audiovisual or radio programmes, as well as non-profit media service providers at the request of, or non-profit media service providers, who received the authorisation of, the Council for Electronic Media. For satellite, internet, cable transmission and other permitted forms of audiovisual or radio transmission from these funds, the Fund for the Promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media. An independent evaluation of programmes and content co-financed by the Fund to promote pluralism of electronic media by independent evaluators will be introduced, which can also engage a council for electronic media for this purpose. Furthermore, it will be determined that it is not allowed to restrict the provision of protected services, e.g. Coded radio and television programmes or accompanying services originating from another Member State of the European Union and not authorised to restrict the freedom of movement of means of conditional access, e.g. equipment enabling access to a protected service unless it is a violation of the provisions on hate speech and protection of minors. In accordance with Article 77 of the Financial The law on electronic media. At the end of the transitional provisions, it will be prescribed that the implementation of a public tender for the allocation of funds of pluralism and diversity of electronic media will be carried out... The provisions of the electronic media law which are now in force shall apply to the entry into force of this law. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28809	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of Croatian Labourists, colleague Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28810	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy deputy minister with associate, colleague and colleague. Most of what is regulated is the draft law amending and supplementing the electronic media law, the deputy minister said. The only question is whether this law rightly proposes to solve the question so-called question in the right way. The third media sector. As you know, there is a fund in Croatia from which local radio stations, local television and these televisions are financed, and this fund provides significant assistance in view of the economic situation in Croatia. First of all, in order to understand the financing and general functioning of the media and it seems that this law does not make it clear how the Croatian media works at all. It has to be said that all the local radio stations that got the concession, all those TV stations, and they're 21 of them seem to me to be joined by a NUT-independent television association. They do most of the same work. All those when they received the concession, they all got some obligations, and these obligations are: the number of employees, the law says exactly who should be the employees and the contract receiving the concession. Then they got the obligation to have the equipment, they got the obligation to have the space. Afterwards, they were obliged to have specific programmes, which are public-interest programmes, and if television stops, radios fulfil the functions of the law, from contracts signed with the Council for Electronic Media, then they could lose their concession. The fund has limited resources, these funds are somewhere around 15 million kuna. I mean more than a hundred, I think the station, 150 radios and television stations, 15 million kuna. In this economic situation with 15 million to be divided into maybe 300 factors on the media scene, we will certainly contribute to many television stations and many radio stations being shut down. We will endanger 2,000 people who are employed at these TV, radio stations and thus insert another nail into the information of the Republic of Croatia. Especially information at a local level where we swear so much. It is absolutely certain that the third media sector and we are talking about internet portals should first of all be stimulated, should do so in some way to survive on the media market, to be one big help, one big plus in informing the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but this must not happen at the expense of already threatened media in the Republic of Croatia. I think that here in the law is not sufficiently clear that it is a public interest and that is a public interest, that is two different things, we are talking here about the public interest, not the public interest, because the laws speak of public interest and not the public's interest because the public's interest can be pardoned and porn. If the same fund is intended to be co-financed by the Council for Electronic Media and the so-called third media sector of non-profit media, the non-profit media, then the legislator, or the state, should say with what money, in which way it will prevent the functioning of 150 local electronic media that have contributed greatly to not all but some of them from democratisation of Croatian society. What's gonna happen to them? Will that 15 million be enough to finance now and the third media sector of the non-profit media? Then it is not sufficiently precise whether these non-profit media are to fill public interest or public interest? It is said, "The Fund for the Encouragement of pluralism and diversity of electronic media in this regard is a good tool, especially with more active access and clearer criteria and objectives of co-financing policy." That's a nice thing to say. It is a good tool, but let's just say that if we don't have nails, it can only be used to break. With what is now offered we will break up such a fragile and vulnerable information system that makes up and local radio stations and local television. Surely many will say of those twenty and some television stations a hundred and some radio stations many serve politics. We know cities that say one HDZ television, another SDP television. One favors the left option in the other right option. I've been working on TV like this. I've had experience, Mr. Mesic. Don't nod your head. I was working on this right which they say, accidentally when they realized then I got fired. So there are televisions that serve politics, but there are those TVs that actually perform public functions. Even those TVs that serve certain political or powerful or tycoons, we know that. We know the Osijek case, and we all close our eyes. Whose TVs are in Osijek. That's exactly who's in control of what television. When I did interviews before the presidential elections, I wanted to do interviews with all the candidates, then they told me on two Slavonic TVs, one now appears in the case of Sanader who got a lot of money to buy, sell, I don't know, I didn't realize why they even gave her the money, probably for a favor then they told me that Mrs. Vesna Pusic and Ivo Josipovic couldn't even perform in madness on those TVs, because left-wings don't accept or broadcast them. At that moment I informed the Council of Electronic Media and the two televisions were to be left without a concession, but this is only proof that the Council for Electronic Media is doing bad as the HRT Programme Council did. The next debate should certainly be in Parliament about the Council for Electronic Media. It is fortunate that this law comes in two readings and that we will correct the mistakes, irregularities that are within the law that the Committee on Information, Information and Media will also make a contribution that clubs will report with amendments, and that the course of this debate will give some results to give a good thought to what needs to be done in the law or thrown out of the law so that we do not make greater damage to the benefit. One of the initiatives that came and came to the legislator and probably came to the clubs in the Assembly is that local TV and radio stations suggest that the political campaign lasts all four years or that they do not have those restrictions that they can advertise politicians like Coca-Cola that would be something terrifying for both Croatian politics and Croatian society. But we'll talk about it when it's out of the law, so I hope so, and I don't think it'll even be found. But I was obliged to report as one of the board members that this initiative was also on the board. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28811	Thank you. The Republic has a colleague Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28812	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I didn't mean to rephrase it, but with a view to being a respected colleague of mine apostrophe that I nodded my head, I didn't nod my head, it was simple for completely different reasons, that's why. But there's one thing I want to say when I've already answered the line. Two key elements for media independence are finance and elections. If you are going to finance something called a non-profit medium, which means only portals practically associations because d.o.o. And the portals can't answer, no matter how important they are to the public interest, I can list you dozens of portals that are important and they can't answer, then in a way they all match. First we had a situation with the HRT Act. And you yourself said to esteemed colleagues that you're not happy with the way things are going, so we're having a shift from the board of directors to HINA. Can you tell if you're happy here? And what else do we have left? The electronic media council and... the pluralism that you said exactly? But a colleague, look at the culture ministry budget for this year. For the first time in history you have already booked practically 3 million kunas for non-profit media and now add these additional funds from pluralism of the media, these are my esteemed fellow assets that are three times bigger than the funds for individual activities in culture throughout the year. I would very much like to have an association that will establish a non-profit medium and write about things exclusively of public interest when I know that there is a 3 million fund where we can apply only me and a few similar ones and eliminate everyone else. So we're going to have a debate in the Council about electronic media very soon, but I don't think a colleague like you and I are hoping for.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28813	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28814	I don't agree with your line, you sure as hell don't, we'll discuss it the way we want to, but it won't be voted the way we want it to. I apologize to you, I misread your nod, so accept my apologies. I fully agree with you, all portals must have the same opportunity to compete for public money with public content. If not, if we prefer just some of the media, then now we need to say what the media is and whose media it is so that we can say that we know what it is. Non-profit media can have content that is not of public interest, and can have portals, the most read portals that have a public interest and therefore we would not stimulate these portals that have excellent portals in the Republic of Croatia with funds from the Fund. I think the legislator will respect that because it is in everyone's interest, because thank God these portals are the most critical but they are critical of all politicians and we need to stimulate them to be a correction of power and opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28815	On behalf of the SDP club, colleague Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28816	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy deputy minister with associate, colleague and fellow MPs. So introducely on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the Club of Representatives will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media for the simple reason that we hold that this is a conditionally stated evolutionary path towards improving the legal basis, i.e. legislation within the media. The bill itself does not come up with any major objections, because it is a clear intensity of the applicant, namely any changes to regulate the space of electronic media and that the legal basis is adapted to the European Union, or to its standards and standards as seen in the paper in view of technological progress and development, or the regulation of the situation in the third media sector, which is also the subject of the proposal, but also the speakers before me have said a few words. It is clear from all of this that the media so far will have to adapt to these changes, especially in the use of funds from funds to promote pluralism, media and diversity of electronic media, which will now be used as well as by fellow Vuksic non-profit media, which is, in fact, I personally hold a good idea and initiative that should be welcomed in any case. The reasons for this argument are primarily clear because the media spectrum plan in the last 10 years shows a significant problem and a dramatic decline in the quality of Croatian media, and the private sector in the media area does not give sufficient quality content, primarily of public interest. Therefore, the development of state-of-the-art and fastest media channels, primarily TV, new internet opportunities and internet portals themselves, should be addressed. What I dare say is, we have discussed this on the board, it is somewhat unclear and it would be good to clarify the second reading of this matter, which is the issue of an independent evaluation of the programme and of the content co-financed by the funds of independent valuers who can engage the Council for Electronic Media for this purpose in accordance with the amendments to Article 64, as set out in the proposal. It is unclear who are independent evaluators and on this issue and the subject should be maintained and more seriously approached, and more precisely, more precisely, to define that part of the law in order to avoid any illogicalness in the future. I also pointed out that the idea of providing support to non-profit TVs and radios is excellent, but I would also like to point out the potential problem that can arise there, which is the very fact that commercial media will actually get less money from the fund because we actually have one jar in which one quantity of funds, and the amendments and additions of this law increase the number of potential users to use these funds. Unfortunately, it was the very means that drove the so-called so-called. commercial media to broadcast emissions and programmes other than commercial content, primarily related to culture, education, national minorities, human rights, etc. Some of them unfortunately did not comply with the existing media but unfortunately did not comply with certain legal provisions that were mandatory, and funds from the fund guaranteed that public content would be broadcast. The only regret or concern could be that after this commercial media will no longer be engaged in culture or education or science or national minorities or individuals, for example, with special needs, and perhaps until the second reading should be crystallized, i.e. to try to eliminate it. This new Proposal for amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media regulates how the Proposer said the first thing, making decisions to which the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Law on Administrative Disputes apply, as some things are now much better, much more precise and much clearer, followed by the adoption of sublegal regulations by the Regulatory Authority of the Electronic Media Council. Therefore, the Law on Administrative Disputes is now more clearly defined, for example, that administrative disputes will be settled in administrative courts, i.e. the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, a more precise and precise local jurisdiction of the courts of Article 13 of the Law on Areas and Courts. What if the prosecutor has a residence in the Republic of Croatia, which in case he does not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, which if he has a seat outside the borders. So everything is clearly defined. In order to make progress in promoting pluralism and the diversity of electronic media funds from the Pluralism and diversity Fund, it was necessary to make available what we have heard in the opening and heard, therefore, access to the third media sector, or to non-profit media. Such media in today's society have a growing and greater importance especially Internet portals where information can be obtained at any time, anywhere or in any way. It's enough on your phone to go and link to one portal and read the latest news. This is definitely also the recognition of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Ministry of Culture and its contribution to the technological development of society in the Republic of Croatia, and this should be welcomed and supported. It is noteworthy that electronic publications providers today make a huge contribution to pluralism and diversity of electronic media, which have a very high public value with their content. But so far, so-called. The third media sector focused primarily on the project viability and activation of a group of enthusiasts who pushed these projects, who came up with financial resources in a variety of ways, and that was actually the problem. It should be stressed that it will be very difficult for the non-profit sector or non-profit media to survive on the market without additional sources of funding, and I am personally afraid that those three minutes of commercial space left may not be enough. Because three minutes an hour if some program is broadcast 24 hours a day. So that's about 70 minutes. This could indeed be a problem where these financial resources will come from. Of course, I also have a few questions in my presentation, so it would be convenient to hear and answer them, or open a discussion, to provoke a discussion. The first question is that actually not profit channels can't be called by the attractiveness of calling it a private competition. But they can actually compete in quality, so the question is whether there will be enough funds from the fund to meet the criteria set out so far. That's one of the questions you'd do well to hear the answer to. I have not noticed that the bill provides for the financing of non-profit media from other sources than funds such as some foundations or other NGOs, which is actually a common practice in the West. Maybe you should think about that part too. Another question is not clearly defined which way portals will run for funds and whether only independent portals such as republics can be considered under portals or local ones as where I come from Vinkovci. So, Cibalia.com. hr or only Cibalia info. Whether radio and television stations publishers who have and portal will be able to run the funds in both ways, for example on the radio portal and on the content of the portal. Whether this will be combined in certain categories, such as in the category of information programme and news or some cultural emissions on the radio, and in the category of gender equality or national minorities, some portal on the Internet. What the Proposer also said was that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media are regulated and harmonised with the Law on General Administrative Procedure and the Law on Administrative Disputes. But it is also highlighted by 7 EU directives, i.e. the European Parliament and the Council, i.e. with EU acts. The amendments and additions to the Electronic Media Act will also be subject to the procedure of amending all sublegal acts, in particular the Regulation on the Pluralism Fund and the diversity of electronic media. The development of technology and convergence poses new challenges in the field of regulation of electronic media. Therefore, continued work is needed to coordinate all sublegislative acts with a view to making it more transparent and efficient regulatory approach in the dominant and dynamic electronic media industry. At the end of the discussion, I will express my satisfaction with one important provision. On the board of media and information we have received an explanation of this, but I think it is important to highlight it and that is that a clearly defined transitional provision that the provisions of the old law will apply to the implementation of the public tender for the award and distribution of funds from the fund. Therefore, the legal certainty of an objective legal procedure in relation to the principle of legal consequences and legitimate expectations assumes the completion of the procedures initiated under the regulation which was in force at the time of the launch or launch of the tender in this case. Because the general rule is that procedures end according to the rules that were applicable when the procedure was initiated. Perhaps only in the end to say that the legislator can prescribe the completion of the procedures under new regulations, but only in the event that these new provisions go to the benefit of those who are competing or who are actually being held slow, which in this case is not the case, because it still has to pass a certain period of time, what we talked about in order for the competition of people, i.e. local stations, internet portals to come forward and that, in fact, during this period of acclimatisation, if modulation or adaptations, they are still accustomed to new conditions that these amendments and additions of the Law on electronic media are now put before them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28817	Thank you. The Republic has Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28818	Dear fellow Roman, all of your concerns are my concerns, all of what you said by the legislator should give until the second reading answers to all your questions or to all your concerns. What you said was that the legislator should explain and specify what an independent evaluation of the programme is, we do not know exactly what an independent evaluation of the programme is, who these programme evaluators are, and when we determine who independent programme evaluators are, these independent evaluators should have clear frameworks of public interest. Today, we all interpret the public interest differently. And I am still stressing the advantage of funding from the fund must be media with a commitment to public interest. As long as we're giving them a commitment, we need to stimulate them. Besides, they'd start a job as a television station to start it should have 10 million kunas in the beginning. I don't know how technology prices are moving now, but if good television is a million, a million and a half euros, it certainly needs to start production. They have to make news every day. With this news, the news must fill the public interest. Besides, for the sake of public interest, public television in Europe is funded by public money, tax money. A portion of the public tax money is also funded by local television, i.e. electronic media and local stations. It's the money he has the fund with. So we have a big commitment because behind the funding and behind the fund there are citizens with their money.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28819	Replication response, Damir Roman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28820	Dear colleague Vuksic, however, now I must say that I agree with you most of the time, but the fact is that this discussion actually opens a constructive debate that I believe that all participants will have constructive proposals to improve the provisions, amendments and additions of this law to another reading. So I agree that there is a need to define clear frameworks for independent valuers, but we need to start with criteria. We need to define the first criteria. And in my debate, I have pointed out that continued work is needed to improve the field of regulation of electronic media, and I hope that with my debate and my replicas, I am doing exactly what you are doing, contributing to the improvement and correction of all the regulatory acts that exist in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28821	And Jasen Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28822	Thank you. My dear colleague, you've pointed out a few positive things, but you believe that until the second reading could be clarified. On the board you could testify that we found that this law was not in the public debate, it was nowhere on the Ministry of Culture's website. Here is a recent opportunity to report to the Ministry of Culture web site with their suggestions. Therefore, it should be more open to the public. But what is particularly pointed out on the same website of the Ministry of Culture has been highlighted by the media strategy several times both by the minister and by her associates. This is already the fourth or fifth time that we've changed the changes and additions of media laws without any strategy, and part of the amendments to this law is actually part of that famous media tax. If you remember what we could read in public press, part of it because it didn't go away, but the way tax on taxpayers' money can be financed by something that's non-profit. So we were wondering if National Geographic had any profit? Profitant is very profitable. Is it of public interest around the whole globe? Of course it is. See, he couldn't apply to those funds the same way as a portal from your city won't be able to apply if it's d.o.o. if it makes any profit. It won't work. That's what we were supposed to do in the strategy, then go change the laws regarding the media, the whole package of laws. The Law on Media, the Law on Electronic Media, the Law on HRT and the Law on HINA. All this remains leaves a huge question that I don't think will be solved in any other reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28823	Replication response, Damir Roman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28824	Dear counterpart Mesic, I was in my debate and when I replicated my colleague Vuksic, I said again, so the purpose of this discussion is to provoke a positive debate. So we also had your suggestion on the board, an observation which, in my opinion, was constructive that the bill did not enter into a public debate. So, your constructive criticism is respected and you have now said yourself that it was actually published on the Ministry's website and that a public debate was opened. So until the second reading we'll have enough time to hear the feedback of the public, feedback experts and what you say yourself try to install, upload until the second reading into the final bill. So I repeat, no one here is perfect and I appeal to constructive criticism and constructive debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28825	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, colleague Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28826	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Assistant Minister and Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. So here we are living at a time when all areas of economic and ine activity are being accused of being hit by so-called. "neoliberal capitalism" whose content is in fact very few who have defined so it is not really known what it means especially in our Croatian conditions, and this focus on profit and commercial behaviour, behaviour and gain is particularly devastating in the field of media. And for all or most of our difficulties, the slowness of our development, stopping, deformation, to a large extent, except of course the bad solutions in the institutions and legislative solutions is actually a responsible and political culture which is not particularly high in Croatia and which is a feature of slow development. And for this and such political culture that is developing so slowly, the media that is operating on principles is also well deserved, and you will be able to get on the front pages of our somewhat printed media, but the same way electronic media behaves, you will find those topics that attract viewers, which attract readers and those topics that are relevant, which are a little more difficult, which are not so attractive, and these topics will not be found in the prime terms of our electronic media, nor on the headlines of our printed media, and that is a big problem. One important job that we should have is, of course, to encourage political culture, to understand what is happening in society politics so that it can be valued, evaluated, approved or sanctioned by those involved in this business, and of course it is not related to the logic of profit and is not in line with it. This logic of profit is no longer of interest, and if there is a steady line with public function holders, then the thing is even worse. Then just as well, what's wrong and vice versa. And of course it won't be solved by these small changes and additions to the law, but this law opens up one space for those activities, for that creativity that will eventually allow citizens to express themselves, to express their views and to show them to others who share them, to educate them in that way if they don't have the primary motive of profit. And it's a fundamental task of this law and that task is self-evident. This regulation comes about new media. This third independent sector is largely electronic portals for the time being, but it can be expected that the development of technology will also make it radio and television stations. And it makes sense that this kind of creativity that is sometimes much higher than commercial television and radio stations, that it will develop in this direction and become more significant. The fear that colleagues here have shown that this will endanger the functioning of existing, radio and television stations doesn't seem justified simply because ratios, numbers don't show it. The total funds found in the Pluralism Fund and the variety of electronic media are 32 million kuna and account for only 3% of HRT's TV fee. In doing so, the largest part, in line with the criteria of meeting public interest, will continue to bear or take on these profitable radio and television existences. So the danger that independent non-profit electronic media could endanger the functioning of media outlets especially those at local level, which because they are more vulnerable, are therefore more seriously threatened, I think that fear is not justified. In addition, this fund is not called the Fund for the Encouraging of Electronic Media, it is the Fund for the Encouragement of Variety, not the amount of electronic media and local stations. It is in this fund, given its name, that there should be means to promote this type of media production and media activity. And that's why this law is very, very logical. Of course, you need to see how it works in the future. And, of course, the question is money, it would be logical that the overall, fundamental functioning of commercial, radio and television houses is supported by another fund and therefore it would possibly be more issued if the programs they are accomplishing are in the public interest but there is no dispute that this fund needs to be this content of funding for non-profit electronic media, so first of all, portals. It is said here that, of course, because of the character of these non-profit media, it is limited to three minutes, which is not the case in public electronic media and especially not in private electronic media, this so-called. big electronic media and equally limited pay. We don't even know the salaries on the public electronic media of employees, and the salaries on private, television, radio houses are completely free. Here I find that this law is good, that it is the fruit of the times in which we live, namely development, technological development and the emergence of a large number to open up the area of creativity, that it reduces the devastating impact of profits on overall understanding and political and wider social processes, and that, of course, this law should be given an opportunity, and that, of course, it should be taken care of and that large commercially any private, any state-owned electronic house has its contents for work in the part in which they advocate the general public interest. That's why the HNS Representatives' Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28827	Thank you very much. Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28828	Dear fellow Radoš, why would public money be financed something that is not of public interest and why would the media be treated as something of public interest only because the non-profits were treated as something of public interest? Here I really don't know the answers to those questions. You represented in your debate that thesis. And one sentence that you finally said that I liked very much, and that's what you said was a devastating impact of profit. I totally agree, we Labourists often talk about the devastating impact of profits often being advocated here in the Parliament as a deity, and it is represented by the social democratic government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28829	The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28830	My colleague Vuksic, I had no intention of saying that public money should be financed by the unpublic interest of the bar not speaking on behalf of the club. Well, if I said that, then it was my lapus and don't get me that way. But when it comes to quality, there is an unpublic interest, therefore something which is not a general public interest in some areas of activity and activity where some quality is really developing, and then in some other derivation it becomes a public interest because it is in some way a wasteland of some quality, some avant-garde that may become a visible public interest tomorrow. And that's possible, but I didn't talk about it. I spoke on behalf of the club, and I was talking about the need to finance public money that is of direct, visible and valorised public interest. If you misunderstood me by my mistake, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28831	Thank you. It's the HDZ Club and colleague of Sunchana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28832	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. On behalf of the promoter, gentlemen from the Ministry of Culture, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on electronic media that is ahead of us should have already heard this, and on several occasions probably be the first in a series of laws to be passed under the so-called so-called. Full media reforms announced on several occasions by the culture minister. But if, in this way, legal solutions continue to be proposed on the surface, with shortcomings, they are seen both today and without public debate, then the media space in our country will be afraid of becoming more confusing and not more orderly. We must note that only after the HDZ's remarks on the Media Committee last week next week did the Ministry of Culture open a public debate without any notice, and many of the people we talked to who did not even know that the public debate was open. Therefore, no public debate was held before the law was sent to the procedure necessary in view of the level of proposed changes. The main objective of this law is to open the Media pluralism Fund and electronic publications, and this goal is good and legitimate. But the bill that comes into the procedure is superficial and flawed because there are no basic preconditions. First of all, the so-called analysis. The third media sector, we don't know the number of entities, the number of persons involved, we don't have a review of current revenues and existing incentives that would explain the reasons for the introduction of these media into the Pluralism Fund. The evaluation of the impact of the proposed changes on existing users of the Pluralism Fund, colleagues said something about it, so radio and television publishers, which will reduce the available amount of funds. An analysis that would explain the reasons for selective or discriminatory access to the Pluralism Fund because this allows only so-called. non-profit electronic publications and producers of non-profit programmes access the funds of the fund, while so-called This does not allow the profit sector to do so. What is particularly worrying is the fact that even the basic preconditions for sending the law into the procedure are not met, which is the positive opinion of the Competition Protection Agency. In its opinion, it recalls the possibility that the draft law will not ensure compliance with the rules on the protection of competition and state aid, particularly in terms of its uniform and uninterrupted implementation. The Agency for Electronic Media is obliged to obtain consent to the programme for the allocation of funds from the Pluralism Fund prior to the implementation of the allocation process, which could affect the inability or blockade of the allocation of funds and existing users. It should be noted, and we also warned this when discussing the Committee, that by joining the EU, the agreement for the programme of allocations from the Pluralism Fund is given by the EU Commission, i.e. the translated general administration, and thus the existing way of allocation and registration. But what I'm interested in is what's going to happen to the so-called. Is that what you're talking about? Supports go through a rather complicated and long-term process of obtaining consent from the EU Commission. If something changes now, the whole process starts from the beginning, but not in front of the Competition Protection Agency, but directly before the EU Commission. I'm asking the question again, maybe today I'll get an answer on how long the programme approval process will take, and do you know how long it takes? So the answer to this question last week was not received on the board, the representatives of the Ministry did not know it, but perhaps in the meantime we will hear the answer today, or perhaps this time, as in the case of the HRT law, when the opinions of the European Commission have now denied the opinion of the Competition Protection Agency and, of course, all the consequences that can arise from such behaviour. The HDZ Club believes that certain amendments to the Law on Electronic Media should be made. I will remind you, in 2011, a round table was held on the Days of Electronic Media, which was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Culture. The debate was about what needs to be changed in the law and a public debate took place for a month, and then we were the first country to comply with the new directive and there were some difficulties in applying the law. Now a draft is coming before us which has not answered any of these questions as if it were not about the Ministry, but imposes one model that is contrary to everything the Ministry of Culture normally does through other forms of support. Here, first of all, I'm thinking of supporting the book and publishing at the Ministry of Culture. In fact, about 90% of subsidies go to entrepreneurs and so on. d.o.o., small publishers, and support for electronic publications was introduced in 2009 and there was no discrimination at that time that made it impossible to report to those registered as d.o.o. Now in 2013 and not a year since the start of the new programme, the creative Europe of the European Union, which promotes entrepreneurship in culture, is proposed a law that allows funding according to the criteria of who is founded. So for example, the decimal issues d.o.o., is that why it is commercial, whether it has no public content. So here's the point, you all know what I'm talking about, I believe you know. Is it not he who has no public authority? Is that how we can speak? The Ministry of Culture has, among other things, received a negative opinion from the Croatian Employers' Association which also speaks about discrimination or we can say that this proposal in all or most segments is not entrepreneurially stimulated or if you want to discriminate. The question arises whether it is possible to subsidise only part of the creative sector at a time when the whole of Europe is turning to fostering the creative industries of the Ministry of Culture. So I'm asking the proposer do you really believe there's a difference between a magazine in printed or electronic form and I pray equally that if something issues d.o.o., for example as a decimal point, so do we then talk about a non-profit or commercial media, which we're actually talking about. I think that's where we came up with a series of misunderstandings. We believe that this proposal may not have been meant to go to another reading without a broad public debate, but we would still have made some concrete suggestions. The proposal is the way it is before us. First of all, it is necessary to define more clearly the concept of an electronic publication, so in Article 2(2), the existing formulation from... allows for different interpretations. Introducing this definition, stakeholders so-called ‘the European Union’ should also be consulted. The third media sector, as well as the scientific community. Namely, it is not clear the concept of accessibility to a wide range of public because you will agree that the Internet is in itself available to the general public or to the general public, and prioritizes the electronic versions of the text are declared by electronic publications while the portal of the east type of content does not necessarily have to be. Or, for example, Are we going to ask ourselves whether the portal on healthy food is a public interest, e.g. A portal about Croats from BiH is not. The relevant definition is also directly related to Article 80(2), which provides for the obligation to submit applications for enrolment in the register of electronic publications providers, only Article 66, which prescribed payment obligation 0.5% of the total annual gross income that they made public in the previous year, the activity of providing electronic publications services, which is also disputed by non-profit electronic publications due to the application of all other revenues. Then why are the terms of non-profit electronic publications and the producer of non-profit audiovisual radio programmes set out in the draft amendments to the law are not defined. As it is now written, it is not possible to give a clear assessment of the effects of the amendments to this law. This applies in particular to this second term which, given the name, is alluded to in order to be able to exist a producer of the programme which manufactures both profit and non-profit programmes. And that could happen to us, so for example. the commercial television with a national concession, or one of the producers owned by it, may have been able to produce profit and non-profit programmes and report them to the pluralism fund. It is equally unclear why the provisions of Article 48 which define the obligations of non-profit programmes in relation to their own production are excluded from the existing law. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union. The most commercial radio stations are hard to achieve so long advertising and even in those... hours. This is also directly linked to concession fees which are only 20% of the usual amount for non-profit publishers precisely because of the additional programme commitments that are now being abolished. The definition referred to in Article 48(2) is discriminatory with the basis of state aid, and I again ask that the opinion of the Competition Protection Agency be examined, and without it further limits, for example, the religious and minority communities in the launch of radio and television. Such a formulation, for example. Some minority community or if you want the Croatian Bishop's Conference could not be the owner of a non-profit medium, so please consider that too, and the problem can therefore also be with minority communities. Article 48 below negatively affects the movement of goods and services as it limits the status of a non-profit provider of a media service to be determined in the award of a concession, i.e. a permit and cannot be changed during the duration of the concession or permit. In the current situation where most existing media service providers meet all conditions for non-profit work, such a provision shall act unnecessarily, restrictively at least in terms of moving from profit to non-profit status. Article 64 shall discriminate against the profitable producers of the radio and TV programmes referred to in Article 19, on request and in Article 79, the providers which distribute their programmes exclusively via cable, internet and satellite. Something has already been said about this and the profitable producers of electronic publications, as it also warns in its opinion of the Competition Protection Agency. It is also necessary to define at least the initial allocation ratios between radio and television, other fund participants. In the current Electronic Media Act, this relationship is 50:50 between radio and television, and the proposed solution leaves that obligation to the Electronic Media Agency. Since there are no analyses or criteria on the basis of which it would be decided, it is obvious that in this way this hot potato determines this relationship not only professionally, but if you want a political, strategic issue with which no one is likely to be satisfied, we want to transfer it to the Electronic Media Agency. This comparison is one of the risks that could block the process of further allocation of funds for pluralism. As one of the compromise solutions, it may be possible to propose an initial relationship that would be found or in place for a year to two, after which the fund's impact analysis might also change the relationship. Finally, I ask the promoters in the interest of quality lawmaking to look at the many shortcomings we have warned about, and to prepare until the second reading a decent text that will be in the interest of citizens and media 24 television, 155 radio concessionaries, and the number of those performing electronic publications is completely unknown, so we don't really know what we're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28833	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. My colleague, Jozo Radosh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28834	A colleague Glavak said that several times before she said that she had not had a public debate. And indeed, the public debate in some kind of strictest form of definition of broad public debate has not been conducted even though it is not known exactly what the public debate in Croatia is. But 11 meetings were held with representatives of local and radio television associations from June to January of this year, from June of last year to January of this year, which is precisely the group most interested in public debate, so it can be said that this focused public debate, i.e. the debate with interested entities, has largely met the criteria of the debate to be held before the law. And some of the views of those associations they represented in those meetings were accepted by the proposings. This is the first remark or replica on the presentation of a colleague, Glavak. The second is that it is a discriminatory law, so just before the law that did not allow the application of a non-profit media competition was a discriminatory law. This law allows you to apply for a competition. What will be the allocation, of course, depends on the quality of the regulation that we have laid down in these and other laws. Therefore, the law which had not previously allowed the application of the tender was discriminatory, i.e. still applicable law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28835	The answer to the replica of the Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28836	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A fellow Radoš, a public debate with an interested public has not been held, and that is the only thing that is true. Therefore, the representatives of the proposer have acknowledged this. You are obviously a little better directed than we are, or even members of the Media Committee, which was accepted when some of the remarks were made by the ministry and not accepted. Well, I guess you might be sitting on the Minister's closest team, so you have some other information. We don't have them legally or publicly. As for the law still in force, no one said it was perfect. I agree with you and the law is there to improve. And it's also not true that so far, non-profit media has not been able to come forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28837	Replica Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28838	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here is a colleague, Glavak, who would also be extremely risky if the adoption of this law did not respect the opinion of the Competition Protection Agency. If I see correctly this agency has given the view that there is a possibility that such a draft law will not be provided, it will not be in line with the rules on the protection of competition and state aid particularly in terms of its uniform and uninterrupted implementation. So, if we are going to also worry about the interests of our and uninterrupted entry into the EU 1.7, I think we should absolutely have this opinion and respect, and accordingly, before the law is passed, we should really respect the AZTN's opinion during the second reading. But it's not just this dimension of the EU. It's really a little harder for me at this point to understand why we're expanding this support system not because in principle it might not be true, but given the state's financial situation when we're going here and on this side we're supporting fiscal consolidation efforts we're actually going to expand that support system. Maybe at other times that would be rational. I'm not sure that at this point it's a priority no matter how much someone will say it is about just a few million kunas. Today, indeed, every kuna in the state budget is important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28839	The answer to the replica of the Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28840	Thank you very much. Comrade Stier, you mentioned what very well you know about what happened to that famous opinion of the European Commission, I said about the Law on HRT. But you've done a good job of apostrophe. We warned of this by not reducing anyone's contribution to our social community that at the moment when the budgets for health, for education, for agriculture, for small and medium entrepreneurship at that point almost seemed to me 40% raised funds for the financing of associations. In some ways, we can see that the associations here will be able to do it, so this way too, apply for additional funds. So, with full respect for their existence and the necessity of being on the Croatian social scene, we wonder if this is necessary and I agree with you every million at this time is extremely important, and like this 200-point TV and radio stations did not receive any means that they could get rich. And someone here mentioned their salaries, since we still don't know what the pay is on public television and we're wondering when we'll find out. I can tell you responsibly since I worked alone at a local TV station, wages are very small, very modest and haven't changed in eight, nine years. So these people work hard, and these funds they get are really based on their application programs. And there's one more thing I want to say to apply to the programs at all, it's a lot of complicated procedures, they even have to attend workshops, but all to meet the conditions of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28841	And Jasen Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28842	Dear colleagues Glavak I agree with your debate on behalf of the club completely, you have said exactly and you have specified the time since the non-profit media in any form could apply to the award of funds to the Ministry of Culture. Someone may not know that, I'm sure the esteemed colleague Radosh knows how to list a series of portals that will now be able to report as a nonprofit to this contest. I'm sure he'll be able to count 5, 10, 15. I am not sure at this point that this would work, but I am sure that many of those who have tried to survive with their electronic media and that they are in some way read, that they are bringing interesting content to fight for a certain part of advertising will surely tell you to wait, so why would I have a company, why would I fight from day to day for my independence, why wouldn't you have nicely renamed it to the association, reregistered and applied to the funds of the Ministry of Culture, or the Council for Electronic Media. We will completely destroy the independence of the third media sector, completely. And it will have far-reaching consequences. And if the Council of Electronic Media doesn't set the criteria the way someone might have imagined it, then we'll replace them with our colleagues, Glavak. We'll replace it like we did with HINA's Governance Council after a year. Like we did on HRT. So what would prevent us from replacing the Council for Electronic Media? That's why that hot potato was transferred there because someone needs to write down the criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28843	Replication response, Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28844	Thank you very much. Very short, so I agree with my colleague Mesic. And even if they develop new programs, if they're put on the market, if they try to do anything, we'll change them anyway because we have to replace them, we have to replace them with others who are going to do what we thought they'd do. And one more thing, why would someone who had a firm with 50 employees bother more with those 50 employees. It'll be nice through the association like you said three, four people have less fate, less pain, less hunting, so I don't know why we'd go further with more employees. So that's what we're thinking when we say it's discriminatory and depressing for those who want to deal with creative industries in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28845	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. He's a colleague of Jasen Mesic's first.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28846	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Since I've had a lot of replicas today, I'll have a brief discussion. I heard here today in replicas and in speeches that we don't know what public debate is and what it's supposed to look like. So let's just say what she looked like for the Cultural Council Act or what she looked like for the same law in 2009. This law was an insight into Chapter No. 10 When we joined the EU, we had three months of time, two readings, more than a month of public debate, more round tables and a constantly open site of the Ministry of Culture 0-24 for public objections. And what's very interesting is that today when you click on the Ministry of Culture website, you'll be thrown out by the archives of that public debate in 2009. So if we're not sure about the child when he goes to school, then when he doesn't know, he bends over to his man who sits with him in the bench, and then he overwrites some time if it's not safe to have a public discussion. In 2013, and we're still fighting it. That's number one. Number two, from the debates at the Press House to a few discussions in this House, I must say very positively read the statements of the Minister of Culture when she took over the ministry about the media strategy. I also read positively that it was said that the Ministry of Culture would also become more involved in media and media reading. But I haven't heard from the strategy yet, and I haven't heard anything from the strategic goals. I don't even remember seeing a round table in this one. But what I saw in public press is so-called. media tax. I don't know if I'm going to quote the idea well, but it's about to be marked, and all citizens will pay out of taxes, and then we from the state budget are going to decide who gets what. We will decide, no more citizens will pay directly on public television via subscription, but everything will go into the budget and we will say in the budget how much it takes. It won't be less than it is now, but we'll figure it out. Then I heard that a colleague of Zivkovic I otherwise personally appreciate was named a kid to be replaced. Then it was removed, I saw it on Croatian radio. Then after that, I saw that he was no longer removed as a minister's advisor but to run a new department, but for the head of the suit, he needs a public tender, and a man who needs to run a department that needs to meet certain criteria. So a series of strategies, I don't even understand the department, and here we have found that there was a shortage in the public debate, but it's in a certain way. Now a proposal of public interest to all of that. You've seen it on HRT and one controversy show about it because it can be pollemized from various points of view. Have you seen any interactions by study, whether you saw it on Croatian radio, whether you saw it in HINE or anywhere else. To help you, you didn't. And to the editor-in-chief of HRT when he hears in other media that we are calling for some media tax where there should be no more subscription than that in the state budget, he should burn six red lights on the table as an alarm and put it right away in the lady's theme, in my personal opinion, without any intention of interfering with anyone in the editorial business, I just intend to represent the public interest. Now that we don't have a strategy, when we don't even have strategic goals, then we have a voted budget that's said to be bigger than it was last year, that is, 2012. For culture, it's simply not true because in that budget which is nominally larger, there are two new items that were not there last year. One of these new items is an item that represents nearly three million kunas and is called non-profit media. The non-profit media item of nearly three million kuna plus this asset that we still don't know how much money we're going to get from the fund if I tell you that the entire archive activity of this country has just over five million if I'm not mistaken, then you realize what I'm talking about. So these aren't released phrases of public interest, of profit, of nonprofit, so people that's a huge profit, that's three times more than all of this country's archeology programs, three times more, not three percent, not thirty percent more, three times. And that we don't have these things we talked about. So now I'm asking you that I do, say, entrepreneurship in culture, and entrepreneurship in culture is a programme where all those who have a private initiative in cultural activities can apply. It is a programme that is jointly funded by the God of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Culture. For the whole program, hundreds of those applying to this program are foreseen two million kunas, and that's what's been going on for years. We didn't raise it from zero to one million, one million to two because every year we did the evaluation of that project and we're looking at its effects, and we're going here with a new sentence right now, poof three million for non-profit media. Without what his colleague said about the public interest and without evaluating how much this has to do with the public interest effect and counter opinions of more than 140 radio stations and more than 20 local television stations. Now the man wonders what the motive is to go into such a change of this law, whether we might finance those non-profit media that will write in the way we think we should. If so, I'm not saying that, we'll see, the time will show us ladies and gentlemen is three million kunas small and very soon it will take thirty because no matter how much we finance them, the public will also show the public interest that they are not relevant, no matter how much we estimate that they are and that they need state support that's number one, and the number two soon there will be no thirty of them that will apply to those funds, but there will be two hundred, absolutely correct because if such funds continue to spread as shown in the budget and that is the only relevant document where we can read into the future then it will be very soon. And given that the ministry's budget is getting smaller and smaller, then we will soon be able to expect the abolition of some other programming activities so that some of the things here may be electronically published that are of interest to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28847	Thank you. This brief exposure of yours has led to five replicas. Sunhead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28848	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I actually have to correct myself, all the colleagues who discussed it. We've been having a completely wrong discussion the whole time because it's no longer called a public debate. Namely, it is now called online consultation with the interested public on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media. When you start looking for a min-culture.hr then please stop somewhere because you will not find a public debate. And when you spoke to my colleague Mesic about a change in Mr. Zivkovic's unchanged promotion, then he had another statement like this for anals, so I'm going to quote here where he actually says "The normative aspect of the answer to the question why, for now, only the non-profit media, is revealed if we imagine that an identical media project suggests a non-profit medium, a commercial medium. In the first case, the non-profit attribute is a guarantee that the salaries will be reasonably limited." So nicely please, everyone else will be unreasonablely restricted and if you are not nonprofit then you are doubted that you will actually do something terribly wrong illegal and unreasonablely restricted wages do not give God to someone. So nicely please, please, all of this can be found on the website and look at the internet consultation with the interested public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28849	The reply to the replica Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28850	Ha fellow you're talking about now what it's called. I said that because of some colleagues who wondered what public debate should look like and wrote to you a public debate archive in 2009 when a public debate was to be held, so here are those who didn't get to see it, so they'll see that it's pretty much accounted for. I'm telling you, three months was the deadline for closing chapter no. Ten, three months.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28851	Next replica, Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28852	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here's my colleague Mesic, you said that this third non-profit sector can very well lead to profits, I think those political ones. Namely, this third non-profit sector that is now being introduced goes to... not to the fund, if it has public content. But how will the agency or body that has to decide this, for example, For two portals to say this has a public content, and this one has no public content if it is not prescribed then it will be according to some discretionary will or other words it will be one transfer of money from citizens' pockets to some associations that are close to government policy, which is a very large political profit for so-called. the non-profit sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28853	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28854	A fellow Stier what I wanted to underline not only in the financing of this but in the financing of anything applied to the Ministry of Culture is exclusively a criteria-listed public interest. Whether it's profitable or not, I've told you on the example of National Geographic or my colleague Glavak, for example. ...that it doesn't matter if it's relevant to the public interest or whether it wasn't for the public interest. It can be 17 times non-profit and completely irrelevant to the public interest even in contrast to the public interest. And it can be so profitable that the owner has enormous profits and is of public interest. So, the public interest is what we have to attach any support that goes from the Ministry of Culture and especially to the media that... so that's the point. And it's simple why can't a modern time portal that deals with publishers apply... so what's not a public interest? Why couldn't it be? But if you already want to do this so that this fund can't really be administered by some media that are commercial and which have no public content, then it's a criterion and it's all clear and you'll easily eliminate them from the race for those funds. It is in the interest of both the promoter and all of us and the media scene and the public interest and everyone. I don't know if we understand each other now, Comrade Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28855	Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28856	Dear colleague Mesic, you've been wondering what a public debate is, or someone else seems to be asking me what a public debate is. It's like you're wondering which river flows under the Sava Bridge, which is a public debate. Now, after 22 years of multilaterals, I really don't need to ask myself what a public debate is because it's clear to everyone. You've talked about this media strategy, quite right, because that's why we bring all these additions, changes to the law, new laws without knowing what it's for. Does that serve any particular interests? Who does that serve? That's when you asked the question of what the motive for changing the law was. You said you were wondering that non-profit media would write what they were supposed to write, so I don't really believe they have that kind of influence. In the end, it's because of some political profit because it's in, so they decided that it's, I know I remember from the pre-election campaign that she promised to finance non-profit messiahs. But I repeat it again somehow incomprehensible that the government that bows to profit suddenly celebrates non-profit business. I don't understand that intention. And another thing that's very important, exactly what you said to the non-profit-profit public-unpublic, public interest. Many commercial and national commercial televisions fill public interest, and they also have a public interest even more than HRT sometimes, and yet earns money on it. So profit is not in conflict with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28857	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28858	It's true, it's definitely supposed to be tied that way. I also think we are completely neglecting in the cultural sector the fact that more than 5% of European Union employees are working in the cultural sector, that this sector is making almost 4% of GDP, and we are holding entrepreneurship in culture twice as much funding as we are going to finance something that is non-profit. And we are entering here thank God 1.7, finally into the European Union, and we intend to compete there with our cultural industries, and we want those in one country of just over 4 million citizens to survive on the 400 million market. So in this case, the public interest is in some way national and we also have to take care of it and it's very important and it wouldn't be good.... And what you said doesn't have to be completely in the balance between profit and public is definitely true, and vice versa.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28859	Thank you very much. A new replica and respected representative Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28860	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mesic, you are constantly calling at this point in the agenda, as well as in the previous strategy, i.e. its absence. Of course we're all waiting for a strategy, I'm sure she's on her way, but because of the kind of correctness of the impression that we're all leaving together, you know best of all here probably in this Chamber how hard it is to bring a cultural strategy, given that in the two years you've been minister, you haven't brought her or your predecessor brought her back in eight years as a minister. The last such strategy was adopted in 2002 in this House during the coalition government when most of the same parties that are now in power were in power. So I'm saying, for some reason, the truthfulness of the impressions be given to the fact that you might be the best witness of how difficult it is to bring a cultural strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28861	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28862	My colleague Coleman, in one section, you're right, it's not easy to bring a cultural strategy, I haven't been a minister in two years but a year. Two segmentary strategies, not cultural strategies, were adopted during that period. One of them is your economic use of cultural heritage. She hasn't been touched in a year. The secretary's assistant has been removed, and I hope for the positive effects of that. She wasn't touched. The truth is that no media strategy has been brought in... and I'm not happy about it, I'm not happy about it, nor about it much I want... but I also told Mr. Coleman that I received the Minister's announcements positively when she took over the Ministry that she would go with the media strategy and pay more attention to it. That's what I said in my speech that I took it positively, believing that we would have an opinion on the strategy, so it would produce the best solutions for other areas of culture and for the media. But what happens now is that for the third or fourth time, we have amendments and additions to the law, so neither the new bill but the amendments and the additions to what we would say to the people, and the strategies, nor the public debate on it. And then you had this situation, and I said that we had a shift of advisors, and the establishment of departments and all that, so I don't know when and how it's going to be discussed in public. And there were positive statements when the minister announced it, absolutely positive, I would not add a word to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28863	Thank you, too. And a new replica and a respected representative, Jozo Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28864	I will replicate to Mr. Mesic, but I will look back on what Mr. Vuksic said, which is yes, but I will be gentle on Mr. Vuksic, so it's like a question of what is a public debate and a question that flows beneath the Sava Bridge. If someone doesn't answer that it's Sava then it's not Sava and those Savas that don't run under the Sava Bridge you have in Croatia as much as you want and so is public debate. A public debate may take a month, but it's not enough for someone. It may include these media but it is not enough for someone, it can only be in one city and not in the entire Republic of Croatia, so it is not enough for someone. There is no normative public debate, that's what I was going to say. And I said that a public debate that focuses on those particularly interested participants and which is more intense than would be a broad public debate could be simpler, could be cheaper and could be better. That's what I said, and that kind of communication, if you call it a public debate, was implemented in connection with this law. So it's not a formal public debate, and Mr. Mesic, your relationship to formal and informal is very interesting about the budget issue. You said, it's said that this budget is bigger than it was last year's budget, then you said it wasn't true, and then you said that, nominally, it's bigger. So it's technically bigger, and it includes some items that you don't find interesting, so then you think it's actually smaller. There is no larger or smaller culture budget in your opinion than that figure on the budget that has been adopted, and this budget is higher and because it includes the non-profit sector should be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28865	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28866	I'll try to respond quickly to the replica because I have to do the same on behalf of my colleague Vuksic. So it's very important that the public debate leaves its mark. I also told the board and colleagues Zivkovic. I believe it was hundreds and hundreds of hours, and I believe. However, when you want to inform yourself about the positions of certain citizens, associations, stakeholders you have no place to see. You have 2009. That's because I might be formal about it. And as for the public debate. She has no intention of establishing that under the Sava Bridge there's always a Sava if it's someone... It has to determine that under the Adriatic Bridge flows the Sava. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the key to this public debate. That's one. And as for what I've been telling you about the budget, I don't know if it's formal or informal. The second item I said was support for the return of those investments in audio-visual activity. It was a program that was still running when I was in the ministry. And I congratulate and thank the Ministry of Culture for continuing it. And the budget is otherwise if we don't tie to 2012 we can go to 2011. It's 60 million less than it is. So much for profit or non-profit or public interest. 60 million is the lower culture budget in 2013 compared to 2011 per item. ... I know, but I'm trying to answer what I said. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28867	To avoid confusion, I know three bridges called Adriatic, and certainly under no river of Sava flows. ... And one in my place is called the Adriatic, and there's a whole third river. [[/Intruder Mesic, you can't hear.]] What can I do now? Thank you very much. [[Upadica Mesic: You can see that a public debate is needed.]] It's a good debate. We've exhausted a list of registered clubs and MPs and replicas. Does the Proposer's representative want to close the word? Dear Berislav Šipus, deputy culture minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28868	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. As in the previous case, I would like to thank, of course, on behalf of the Ministry of Culture, everyone who participated today in this heated fire debate. There was a lot of thinking and objections, grudges, suggestions, solutions, perhaps commendation, self - thanks. But in any case, we will wait for another reading to prepare the ministry for answers to all comments and suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28869	Thank you very much to the Deputy Minister of Culture. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media, first reading, PZ No. 238, the debate on the draft law is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on electronic media is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes have reached a proposed conclusion with 90 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 3 votes abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28872	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. Here's another clarification very briefly. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to confirm these two contracts. They are the result of the government's policy towards states declared as a kind of political goal of integration into Euro-Atlantic integration. We consider these contracts to provide one legal framework for our further cooperation in providing technical assistance. We all know very well that we have completed our accession negotiations. We have gained a lot of knowledge, a lot of technical knowledge and experience that we would like to share with countries that are on this path and in this sense strengthen and strengthen, deepen our bilateral relations. In addition, this is an investment in the prosperity of our region, in the security of our region, in European values, standards on which we want to build our relations. It will certainly be much simpler and easier for our economy in these countries once they bring their legislation into line with the European acquis. We propose that the law go by emergency procedure in order to bring the contracts into effect as soon as possible and provide us with a legal framework for operational action. The contracts also provide for a joint commission that should identify the concrete activities that we will do and provide to all these countries. So, apart from Montenegro and Industrious, we have offered this partnership to other Southeast European countries as well. We're waiting for them to manifest themselves. We will simply try this policy in a constructive way to work on our neighborhood and deepen our bilateral relations. Here's to short.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28873	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament wish to submit reports? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We are going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. First in line is the HNS club and respected representative Igor Coleman. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28874	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Foreign and European Affairs. Every so much here in Parliament comes to some law that we can really be, that is, that we can really be proud of the Republic more or less regardless of the political colors we represent. It's a shame that these laws always come in this evening's shish, so we can enjoy a few more of the most durable ones. In this case we sign, or have signed contracts with other countries, and in those contracts we are not recipients of someone's knowledge, recipients of someone else's help and advice, but rather disgusting. We are knowledge transferors and we are useful, positive, modern knowledge about the construction of state and institution. One of the fundamental elements of our external European policy is strong and unequivocal support for the further enlargement of the EU, particularly with emphasis on our narrow but also on the wider region in which we live. These concrete agreements oblige the Republic of Croatia to provide political and technical support to Montenegro in joining the EU and NATO and the Republic of Moldova in joining the EU. We all know, and this is nothing new, that the process of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU was completely unique and the consequence is that Croatian experience is irreplaceable in the process of joining future members of the Union. The Croatian accession process itself has changed from the ground up. This is what we all often lose sight of when we live in our country daily, but if you try to go back 10 years in mind or just 5 years back you will realize that the difference in the functioning of Croatia and its institutions is dramatic. However, a common contribution to peace, stability and progress across Europe is the only way to maintain peace, stability and progress here at home, here in Croatia where we live. On the basis of the provisions of these Treaties, Croatia will organise joint consultations and initiatives, events and activities, organise study visits by experts from Montenegro and our institutions, organise professional training, conduct exchange of civil servants, provide professional services in the field of euro and Euro-Atlantic integration, etc. What is particularly important is that joint projects will also be prepared for the use of EU funds. Furthermore, an extremely important step which is as the basis of this contract was made that a Council for Transition Processes so-called. The Centre of Excellence precisely with the aim of providing support and technical assistance, transfer of knowledge and experience, but I also particularly stress both the collection and deepening and the pooling of knowledge that Croatia has acquired in these processes and which we can certainly call invaluable capital for our country. The Republic of Croatia is well on its way to becoming a factor in the stabilisation of the entire region using primarily its comparative advantages, both politically so geographically, so linguistically, culturally and all the others who open the door for us daily and in our tightness, as well as in the wider region. Of course, I don't have to stress this, the HNS supports these two agreements, but what I want to stress is that we look forward to a future in which in such or similar arrangements we expect both BiH and Serbia and Kosovo and Macedonia and Albania, but also in some modified forms and countries such as. Tunisia or Morocco. Unfortunately, because of the objective problems that we all face daily, we often find ourselves missing a stop and seeing that our very young country is still very young despite the problems, despite the often ourselves who live here and who we manage slowly and become truly a proud and full member of the World Community of the people in the best sense of this formulation. And this is dear colleagues and dear colleagues certainly just one of those moments when we can stop for a moment and be proud of our country and our Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28875	Thank you very much. The HDZ advocates' club and respected representative Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28876	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleague Klisovic, deputy minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the HDZ club supports the proposal of these two laws that are ahead of us tonight and their confirmation in the Croatian Parliament, but they deserve several comments and several analyses. The first is that two different countries are talking about their European perspective, namely their relationship with the EU and NATO. First of all, relations with Montenegro as a country with which Croatia borders are an extremely important indicator and measure of our policy to develop good neighbourly relations and provide support to Montenegro both on the way to the EU and NATO. As we know last year, Montenegro began its EU accession negotiations, a meeting was held in December of this year and an intergovernmental conference where negotiations were continually launched and where 1st was closed. Chapter on science and research. It is a good signal, a good signal for Montenegro but also a good signal that the continuation of EU enlargement to the countries of the region intends to continue, although we are all aware it will certainly not be at that pace so that the countries of the region want this because of the overall atmosphere in the EU and when it comes to the economic crisis but also when it comes to an analysis of the functioning of the Union itself. At the same time, Montenegro has since 2009 stepped up its relations with NATO and has gradually sought to join the alliance through a clearly defined path of relations that had previously been made by Croatia, which is, as we know, a member of the alliance at the time of the Strasbourg summit, together with Albania. When we look at these texts they even have a different name, with Montenegro is the Euro-Atlantic Partnership, with Moldova's European Partnership. I must admit that I am sorry that in no single indent of these two proposals there is any reference to what was in the relations between Croatia and these countries before these contracts were signed. This seems to me to be a failure for which I must admit by looking at the legislative proposals and resolutions that revolve around the European Parliament there would certainly not have happened. Croatia did not start relations with these two countries either on the subject of Euro-Atlantic cooperation or on the subject of European cooperation in 2012. Croatia's foreign policy does not begin with the Kukuriku Government as we could recently hear on TV. However, there were protocols on co-operation between the foreign ministry with Montenegro and Moldova, there were protocols in cooperation on European issues, exchanges of experts, conferences, transfer of knowledge, compliance with translation of the acquis, discussions on the use of the fund take place for years. Namely in the Croatian Treaty with the Union which, as you know, we signed in 2001. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, there was a whole chapter on regional co-operation, and today we can say that we have the right gain, the right act of regional co-operation, on these topics, on the topics of dialogue and on the topics of assistance to countries that are Croatian neighbours and who want to take advantage of everything that we have been through so far. I would therefore like the ministry to, since it is very rare in essence to come up with legislative proposals which the holder of the Ministry of Foreign European Affairs mentioned in the light of these two contracts that something had happened before 2012. You are a colleague of Klisovic and head of cabinet of Minister Grabar Kitarovic when such co-operation was very often developed with the countries of the region and you remember these efforts very well. Unlike Montenegro, which is very precisely defined in its objectives and as regards Union membership and as regards membership in the North-Atlantic Alliance of Moldova, the country is in a completely different position. It is a country whose economic situation is such that it is not only the majority of its inhabitants at the edge of poverty but one of the most economically developed countries is in a very specific context of relations with Romania in an additional specific context of relations with the Russian Federation because of the problem of transistria and certainly also conditions its European perspective. The EU is looking at Moldova through the neighbourhood policy optics and tabled in 2009 through the Eastern Framework Policy Partnership. It does not regulate its contractual relations with the EU with those types of accession agreements that Croatia had already had, but is about special contracts that do not have a clearly defined perspective of membership, which primarily go towards gradually bringing countries that are part of the Eastern Partnership to European values, European standards, European legal norms, and to strengthen the natural aspect of free trade. At this very moment, negotiations are being held that could result in the conclusion of this contract, in the beginning and in mid-2013 respectively. Moldova is precisely because of these two aspects that I have talked about and the state that has chosen neutrality and neutrality, of course, implies that it has no intensity to become a member of the North Atlantic Union and therefore these relations that we are working on here are mainly related to assistance in the context of the EU. Romania's role in international and regional positioning is extremely important. It has been the Romanian government and Romanian diplomacy for the past few years that we have witnessed the opening of the linkage with regional initiatives in Southeast Europe. Whether it is the process of co-operation in South East Europe, the Regional Co-operation Council, whose head of the secretariat was recently former Croatian diplomat, Mr Biscevic, to all other forms of cooperation that would allow Moldova to speed up the dynamics of relations with the Union in a certain way compared to what the member's policy has predicted at the moment. And that is why it is good to continue with concrete activities that help this very European country to gradually enter a circle of those countries that will open up a European perspective. I also hope that soon in the debate in the Croatian Parliament we will have the opportunity to see other contracts, hear perhaps a little more about what fellow Coleman said about what a conceptually imagined way through the knowledge transfer centre, excellence, that experience that Croatia currently has because the experience of negotiations is not something that remains forever. The methodology of evaluations is now seen in the example of Montenegro, they are already doing very detailed screening and preparation for chapters 23 and 24 which have been left for the end of Croatia, and therefore we have been brought into an absurd situation, that we have closed the most difficult chapters within the shortest time that has led to great hesitation in individual countries. Also, since this is our chance today to talk about a foreign policy issue, I appeal to the Ministry of Government to include the Croatian Parliament and to communicate on the state of negotiations with Slovenia, since this is a question currently dominated by our European agenda and it would be good not only for the Committee on Foreign and European Affairs of the National Assembly to define very precise and detailed views, but also for these views to be discussed on the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. The situation in Slovenia is very uncertain and eventually disbanding the National Assembly for us would mark one situation if the ratification is not completed by one scenario, which of course none of us wants. And that is why, from the point of view of the opposition, we want to make a constructive contribution to address this issue, but it would also be good to know a little bit more about the proposal that has been on the table that we can see exactly what is the alternative solution that financial experts have been preparing for some time. So much for these two suggestions. We support them in the spirit of our very clearly defined European objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28877	Thank you, Your Honor. We've exhausted the list of representatives' club candidates for 15 minutes. Finally, a representative of the HDZ Club for five minutes. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28878	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, Croatia's entry into the EU on 1st July is also taking over in a political sense a new responsibility towards our neighbourhood towards South East Europe and in this context the ratification of this contract between Croatia and Montenegro is, of course, discussed and this one with Moldova on the Euro-Atlantic Partnership makes quite sense. The fact is that history is not our cooperation in both the European and the Euro-Atlantic areas of cooperation is not initiated by such a contract. As counterpart Plenkovic said, there were other instruments and a memorandum of cooperation, etc., but this type of Euro-Atlantic partnership contract and the definition of our relations is very meaningful in this single partnership relationship contract. in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and the protection of our national interests which, on the one hand, leads to the Europeanisation of our foreign policy and policy towards South-Eastern Europe, but on the other hand, we should also work to ensure that European policy towards South-Eastern Europe is devoured by Croatian national interests. In this context, it seems to me that the first such agreement on the Euro-Atlantic partnership to come to ratification in the Croatian Parliament should be with neighbouring BiH. not because he's no good with Montenegro but I think the message we should have sent was that the first such Euro-Atlantic partnership agreement we'll ratify with BiH. You know that at this point, the US administration is opening new negotiations on the reconstruction of the Federation on the new Constitution of the Federation, and there is no concrete information that Croatian diplomacy does in this regard, perhaps now is the opportunity to hear from the deputies at least some of the guidelines that are happening in this regard. Our strategic interest is that the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to care for the Croatian people in BiH is of course to ensure both the interests in the area and national security that we have, and the reconstruction of the Federation and that entity and the position of the Croatian people in the Federation is of primary importance. This is happening at the moment and this process is under way and it seems to me that neither the Croatian public nor the Croatian Parliament have been well informed about it and we have not had the opportunity to discuss it in more detail. Therefore, support for this model of contract and the conclusion of a partnership on Euro-Atlantic co-operation. But also an appeal to the government especially at this very sensitive moment for the neighbouring country, as well as for the Croatian people in BiH to take care in a more transparent way of taking care of the interests of both the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people in that neighbouring country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28879	Thank you, too. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for discussion on this subject. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? The closing word of Deputy Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28880	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is a very short time in the framework of the agenda, our agenda points are not moving on to other foreign policy issues that have been raised quite legitimately and can be talked about, about the continuity of Croatian policy in these European matters towards other countries, that you are right to know that before the protocols between ministries we have now raised them to a level of more contracts between governments but it is good that there is one consensus on the political scene in Croatia compared to other countries and Croatian behaviour towards them in the context of the EU, the Euro-Atlantic integration of these countries. BiH would be a message you say well that we are... ratification, agreement or contract with that country is what I can say that it was the first state we offered a European Partnership Treaty. But we still haven't received a final answer from them, and within that administration, there's still some point of view to which we're going to be recommunicated, which is a question of the speed of efficiency of that administration, and we wouldn't mind if it were the first country to have a contract here. The Centre of Excellence that we have established by the Government in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in fact its main task should be to consolidate and systematise all the knowledge collected in our accession negotiations. Many people have participated in this, and we are trying to contact all these people, to sort of systematize and try to see what those people who might then be able to share and place this knowledge into these countries with whom we will conclude such a contract. So here I think, as we know, that the negotiations were conducted and carried by many people by professional, civil servants, and here we will include all those involved in the negotiations in order to try to really use, systematise and form one product that can then be sold to a commercial dictionary on the SEE market and in other countries that have Euro-Atlantic ambitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28881	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. I'm closing the debate on both final drafts of the law. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on the Euro-Atlantic Partnership, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 247. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that, unanimously with 127 votes, the Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on the Euro-Atlantic Partnership is in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28896	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable gentlemen representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Here I will briefly try to explain these three final legal proposals. It is, in fact, the harmonisation of national legislation with the acquis of the European Union. In the case of a final legislative proposal on chemicals, the conditions to be met by legal and natural persons for the performance of the production, placing on the market and use of chemicals shall be laid down and the responsibility of legal and natural persons in Article 5 and the responsibilities of the users themselves in Article 6 shall be clearly prescribed. For all these three legislative proposals, it is important to stress that it is appointed the Ministry of Health as a competent body. In this particular case, the implementation of the proposal also defines co-operation with the Croatian Institute of Toxicology and Antidoping. Therefore, the Ministry of Health is the competent authority for granting approval to carry out the production, marketing and use of chemicals, and the sanitary inspection shall be authorised to carry out inspection controls on chemicals. It is very important to stress that the proposed law respects the specificity of the time and process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and enables the flexible adaptation of domestic legislation to the legislation of the European Union and the direct application of the European Union regulations after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. This next law, the Act supplementing the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the EC on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, therefore and also here it is also a matter of harmonisation of national legislation with the acquis of the European Union, the regulation of the powers of the Minister of Health shall be laid down to authorise the other body, without prejudice to the competence of the Ministry of Health as the competent authority for the implementation of the Regulation. Horizontal cooperation of the Ministry of Health as the competent authority for the implementation of the regulation with the central authorities of the state administration responsible for environmental protection, water economy, economy, agriculture, defence, internal affairs and protection and rescue, and cooperation with the Croatian Institute of Toxicology and Anti-doping and the extension of powers in inspection of the implementation of the Regulation. The Minister of Health shall also be empowered here to ensure, by means of a regulation, order and guidance, the implementation of legally binding acts of the European Union adopted under the Regulation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since 16 December 2008 the European Parliament and the Council, on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures to be amended, supplemented, repealed Directive 67/548/EEC and Directive 1999/65/EEC, amends and amends Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006. The Health Minister shall be empowered to ensure, by means of a regulation, order and guidance, the implementation of legally binding EU acts adopted under the Regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28897	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the workers want to take a word, give a report? I don't think so. I'm opening a debate. We're going to have a debate on the representatives' clubs. The first club is the Croatian People's Party and respected Sonja König. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28898	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, dear Deputy Minister. According to the number of reported people, one might think that these proposed laws may not matter at all, how irrelevant they are, how this is all about compliance with European legislation, how much time and effort should not be spent on them. And yet, on the other hand, every day and everywhere, we hear that health is the most important thing. So let me say a few sentences on behalf of the CNS about this Chemical Act, and maybe this other one you suggested because the chemicals are all around us. They can, as we know, harm human health, but they can also be affected positively. Everything depends, of course, on how chemicals are treated, how we manage them, how we handle them. The chemical industry is extremely powerful and millions of tons of chemicals produced annually have huge financial value. On the other hand, those who have at least once been sick claim that the highest value has human health. Chemically, we can endanger or disrupt that health, and so it is very important to make it clear that the regulations, i.e. clear instructions or obligations for those who use products, imports or exports of chemicals, and that is exactly what this Chemical Act does. It regulates the handling, i.e. the issue of classification, packaging and labelling of chemicals, regulates their production, transport and use, regulates the issue of the protection of life and human health, and protects the environment. The Chemical Act has already partially incorporated certain provisions of European legislation several years ago. And these new changes and additions, hands to heart, don't bring any radical changes, but the existing law further improves, improves the existing system of protection of human health and the environment, and offers better solutions that are important for reducing, or preventing accidents that occur if chemicals are unprofessionally used and we use them in the wrong way. Regulations 1907 of 2006, 340, 689 and 1272 of 2008, Regulation 440 of the 2010 Council Directive 67/548, 1999/45, 74/556 and Directive 2004/10 which harmonize this Chemical Act contain thousands and thousands of pages of text and their clarifications are several hundred more. Their name to our citizens, our neighbor or neighbors certainly or probably doesn't mean much. But if we try to make it as short as possible and explain it to ourselves, but also to others what it actually means, it would look like this. Those who use or place chemicals on the market shall warn each of their users when obtaining the chemical of their hazardous properties. They must provide guidance for their safe conduct. Those who import or export chemicals must have buildings with special accommodation and working rooms with dangerous chemicals, must have appropriate equipment, and responsible persons with completed study of appropriate orientation. Every worker must possess personal protective equipment, and every person working in the workplace with dangerous chemicals is obliged to acquire knowledge of protection from these same chemicals. The method of packaging, testing of chemicals is arranged, but also the exact appearance and size of the label on the chemical packaging. The responsibility of users is also introduced to ensure that they do not endanger other people’s health and health while dealing with chemicals, and that they do not cause damage to the environment. Dangerous chemicals should not be stored in a way that allows for their interaction. It is forbidden to advertise chemicals in such a way that they are not harmful to human health and to the environment and those who sell dangerous chemicals to a small extent are forbidden to sell their categories to persons under 18 years of age. For all administrative, professional and chemical-related inspection tasks, the Ministry of Health or Health is responsible, and all those who produce and import chemicals are required to keep an eye on the chemicals produced or imported into the territory of the Republic of Croatia and all of these are supervised by the Sanitary Inspectorate. And those who violate the provisions of this proposed Chemical Act will be fined by a fine of 1,000 to 100,000 kuna. That is, in fact, a summary of what is contained in the proposed law and just a hint of what is on the mentioned thousands of pages of provisions with which we align these articles. But those who have studied them, who have proposed this law and their alignment, we believe and believe that this law will further ensure better control of dangerous chemicals, thereby increasing the safety of workers and protecting human health, and certainly also the environment. And that is why the HNS Club will support this proposal of the Chemical Act, and we will support these other proposed laws that you have mentioned, Deputy Deputy Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28899	Thank you, too. The most important thing is the presummation of chasing et de iura for all citizens that they are familiar with and that they know the regulations, and what is in reality... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We've exhausted the list of people who've been reported to debate the clubs. No individual debates of 10 minutes have been reported. Does the Proposer's representative want to be final? Oh, no? Yeah. Here you are, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Deputy Minister of Health, Honorable Marian Cesarik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28900	...proposer did not give the closing statement, but moved on to the explanation of the next item on the agenda... Here, I'd like to thank you. I'm sorry I didn't actually give the closing statement, but I think it's also Mrs. Comparic who held me back, so I got confused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28901	Thank you, Deputy Minister. First, I am concluding the debate on the final proposal of Law No. 260 P.Z.E. on the final proposal for Law P.Z.E. No. 259. I am also concluding the debate on the final proposal of Law No. P.Z.E. No. 258. Final proposal of the chemical law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 260. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 128 votes for the adopted Chemical Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28920	I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'll disappoint you, but I'll say a few words. Therefore, the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 258/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 January 1997 on novel food and novel food ingredients – the health correctness of new food in the Republic of Croatia is governed by the Food Act and the Regulation on the conditions and procedure for granting authorisation for placing new food first on the market of the Republic of Croatia and the requirements for specific labelling of new food. Those rules have been adopted in order to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the EU acquis in Chapter 12. – Food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary policy and have fully taken over the provisions of the European Parliament and the Council Regulation of 27 January 1997. The Ministry of Health shall be designated as the competent authority for the implementation of the Regulation, and this legislative proposal shall determine the sanitary inspection of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28921	Please, we didn't understand, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28922	Excuse me. So, final?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28923	We finally thought, and you're already at the next point.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28924	And I'm going ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28925	Okay. Anyway, finish that off, we'll put it in the explanation of the next three points. Finish it, finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28926	You accept this from me that I was in a hurry together just like you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28927	Continue, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28928	Therefore, the following law, Law implementing Regulation (EC) No Regulation (EC) No 1828/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2003 on genetically modified food and feed for animals and amending Regulation (EC) No 18289/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards genetically modified food and feed 1830/2003. The European Parliament and the Council of 22 September 2003 on the traceability and labelling of genetically modified organisms and the traceability of food and feed produced from genetically modified organisms, amending and supplementing Directive 2001/18/EC, as the area of genetically modified food and feed and the traceability and labelling of genetically modified organisms and traceability and food for animals produced from genetically modified organisms at EU level is regulated by regulations as a secondary source of EU law which will be directly and fully applicable in the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Health shall be the competent authority for the implementation and the sanitary inspectors and veterinary inspectors and economic inspectors of the State Inspectorate shall be responsible for the supervision and implementation of the Regulation. Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 1223/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 November 2009 on cosmetic products – as the area of cosmetic products at EU level has been established by a regulation as secondary sources of EU law to be applied on 11 July 2013 after accession will be directly and fully applicable in the Republic of Croatia. This legislative proposal allows for the implementation of this Regulation. The Ministry of Health is also the competent authority for the implementation of the Regulation, and the sanitary inspection is designated for supervision. Here, I'd like to thank you. I'm sorry I didn't actually give the closing statement, but I think it's also Mrs. Comparic who held me back, so I got confused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-31-0.u28929	Thank you, Deputy Minister. You have heard the opening statement for - Final proposal of the Law on the Implementation of Regulation (EC) No 258/97 European Parliament and Council of 27 January 1997 on novel food and food ingredients, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 256. The unification of the debate also has a final proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EC) No Council Regulation (EC) No 1829/2003 of 22 September 2003 on genetically modified food and feed for animals and Regulations (EC) No 1829/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2003 on genetically modified food and feed 1830/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2003. Years on the traceability and labelling of genetically modified organisms and the traceability of food and food for animals produced from genetically modified organisms amending and supplementing Directive 2001/18 EC, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 257; - Final proposal for a law implementing and regulation of the PZE No. 12,23/2009. European Parliament and Council of 30 November 2009 on cosmetic products (recast version), emergency procedure first and second reading of PZE No. 261. The opening statement we heard from the deputy minister. Whether representatives of the working bodies wish to submit reports. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We're going to a meeting with the representatives' clubs. No representatives' clubs have been reported. We're going to an individual hearing of deputies for ten minutes. He is now the first respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. He's not in the hall. He's losing the right to discuss this subject. The next one is a respected representative of Djurdzica Sumrak. She's not in the hall. He's losing his right to discuss this matter. There are no more reports to discuss the duration of ten minutes. Does the Proposer's representative want to be final? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll continue the plenary session tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Benefit the Presidential table with agenda item Final proposal of the 2002 Act on the Confirmation of the Protocol. At the 1974 Athens Convention on the Transport of Passengers and their Bags of the Sea, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 264. Good night! Have a good night's sleep! Final proposal for a law implementing Regulation No. 258/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 January 1997 on novel food and food ingredients, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 256. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that it is unanimous with 128 votes in favour of the Law implementing Regulation No. 258/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 January 1997 on novel food and novel food ingredients in the text as proposed by the applicant.
