ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u47692	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, because of recent and ongoing problems on Croatian radio television, especially because of recent events that we have had opportunities to read on portals and in the HDZ news club is looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u47693	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u47694	For the same reasons, the club of Croatian Labourists – the party of work requires a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u47695	Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u47696	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm joining, so for the same reason we're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u47697	First I close this agenda. We'll vote on her in an hour. And then I set a 10-minute break. We'll continue at 11 o'clock and 5 minutes. Thank you. It's 10:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u47698	... The clubs asked for a break. [[Home is not saved.]] We'll hear the representatives of the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Jasen Mesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u47699	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, we have talked about HRT here several times at this pay phone and at this assembly in this conference. Just remember the debate over the law when a political consensus for the election of the head director and the leading people was made, remember our protests when these same people quickly entered into an eclant conflict of interest, when they began without any condition to place friendly people in the ruling positions on HRT, when the shifts and persecutions of journalists began with the support of the Prime Minister who supported the press releases in the information program, regardless of what he said he was not interested. I will also remind you of the opposition protesting in this House when a public service for private address was used after the Commission of Conflict of Interest found someone guilty and committed a violation. All this is about total care, including this House, colleagues and colleagues and Madam Vice President, because we are persistently pushing the agenda points where we should have discussed the 2011 report at the bottom of the agenda, the 2012 reports are not yet in the hint, and the latest events of which some of them are tragic have naturally offered us a break on behalf of the HDZ Club. The twilight that happens on HRT after everyone and everyone have been removed, after people are banned from entering the port on HRT where commissioners will be introduced to control e-mails and phone calls from journalists and employees at HRT. It wasn't in the director-general's program when he applied for a contest for the director-general of television. Which is done by the competent Ministry of Culture, which was pompously announced by the media strategy, and apparently only the part was made to allocate money from the state budget to certain media. No one's answering. We also expect a reaction from the Journalist Society to such behaviour on HRT which should be the main service. On top of all this, the HRT people who are destined to talk about this mobbing, about this persecution that's happening on public television, and actually TV in the function of the ruling coalition, are getting second-morning cancellations. My colleagues and colleagues here certainly count down on democracy on HRT. By our inaction, by our inaction we give it to the right. Vice-President Stazic this morning when he led the session said he suggested any topic that is important we will discuss it here in the Croatian Parliament. Well, that's what we're suggesting. We propose a session of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament to discuss the 2011 reports, the 2012 reports, the state of the HRT. Both in terms of the programme and in terms of funding. Also, we are looking for an urgent and extensive thematic session of the Media Committee to discuss all this. Because of these things that someone on public television controls phone calls in 2013, e-mails return us not in the era of television in the '70s, which is allegedly the principal director's role model of public service and democracy, but unfortunately even earlier. Dear colleagues and colleagues will not stop those who call us and warn us of the situation on HRT who call us from phone booths, who call us from private home phones, it will not stop us from firing, no threats and banning the entry of HRT can only be a burden on the ruling coalition and therefore we are looking for an urgent debate because after the conflict of interest, after the introduction of similar editors into the programme simply this has gone too far and we need to discuss this in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u47700	On behalf of Croatian Labourist Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u47701	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In order to talk about this subject, we need to start from the beginning. The causes of the poor condition on HRT. The cause of this condition is the Law on HRT. When we discussed this law, I was saying on behalf of the club that it would be the law to appoint the commissioner at HRT. I said, one of the sentences was only God can help us be a person who will know to deal with so many powers. I was naive, probably already a person chosen before the law was written. I apologized to the Croatian public for doing so. If the law were as proposed by the Croatian Labours to elect editors, and the Supervisory Board of Directors would have a different situation today. Goran Radman now has the power to manage processes and jobs on HRT and program by name and last name. He's got all the powers, he can't handle those powers. And that's why we were on his shift. After several scandals that occurred after his sentence, "if the Committee of Conflict of Interest catches me in the conflict I will resign". That's the man who said to stick to his words, after that his word was withdrawn. That's when I realized that on HRT there would be terrible things going on today. Someone asked why just before, a session why the news society did not react to the announcement that there would be a man on HRT who would control press e-mails and phone calls from journalists. To determine what? That she didn't leak any information by any chance. About who? If they hadn't reported it, I don't know any competing lists or competitive television news. News today comes in seconds to control what is said and to whom it appears in the management of those who rule Croatian television. This really hasn't been done in the '70s, this looks like the situation behind Karajordjeva, and it's something frightened. People on HRT kill each other, then give people who want to give the police some testimony about it, knock on the door and give them envelopes with threats of firing. Well, that never happened. We thought it was time behind us. However, as a mirror of society, I would say today quite certainly Shakespeare, not if the theater was a mirror of society but of television, it is a mirror of state. And what's done is not good. They don't want us from opposition to the ruling Kukuriku coalition won't listen. HRT is not the TV of the ruling coalition, the ruling coalition does not have the right to own television. And today, the ruling coalition is acting that way to say we've won power, we're going to rule the HRT. Everything that happens today on HRT must be stopped. Stop mobing, stop threats, stop illegal layoffs, stop people who don't know how to handle that kind of power in their hands. There will be even more terrible things happening. It should be restructured, the number should be reduced by a thousand but not in that way, not without a plan, not because someone is willing to testify about the crime on HRT. those who previously mobbed during the former administration and during before that administration and today do the same jobs say they have most people on HRT in their hands. Nothing works either, Bajic said he has no applications, and there are dozens of applications, no one is doing anything. Same condition as before. Stop it until there's a bigger accident.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u47702	And on behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u47703	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It is good that today or that the HDZ Club has requested a break in the debate of the situation and a permanent situation on HRT. We've debated the HRT here many times and the fact that it's actually the ruling coalition, I'd say even its hard wing, the hard communist wing actually ruled the HRT. What am I saying? They say that one image is worth a thousand words and that's why television is like a medium, as the most important medium for elections and for anything else really very, very important because people don't buy newspapers if they watch TV, they watch the Diaries. And what's going on on that TV? The new programme scheme of HRT says it will dedicate a period of 23 hours to domestic Croatian film on Mondays for all those suffering from insomnia a fantastic term, and for all others none. That's why every day we watch the series already on my ears and on my nose and on my eyes, the Battle of Neretva I don't even know what not, and they say the Battle of Neretva is a Croatian film. That'll prove it. But what's done on HRT and how it actually works is similar to those wooly times as you used to say in whatever words like stop Reuters, give word to TANJUG or shut down HINA no longer works, get her numb. So it also happened to the decisions of this Parliament and this assembly majority here. HINA has been destroyed almost literally, TANJUG acts through those we discussed last week, as well as agents and conducts public terror on public Croatian television. These are old and encumbered communist ways of ruling public media. They have studied the trade and know it well from that system, they have practice even so manage Croatian television that should not be called Croatian. It is the twilight of Croatian democracy. Because of this twilight of Croatian democracy and such Croatian television and TV management, we also have tragic events. I won't name it, you all know. And you read, but don't say a word here. And those who are involved in Croatian television via boards of directors and I don't know what, they're not here today. And so it would all go away without this debate. When the doctor's strike started, you know what movie was shown on Croatian TV, I said that two weeks ago? A vegetarian man-eating man. To pair up Croatian doctors and Croatian medical professionals. So, the dedicated film is being shown. Is this a public television Croatia which, therefore, speaks very negatively of phenomena in Croatian health, clearly has them but not as it was shown. It is unfortunate that today, when we enter the European Union, we don't actually have public television, but we have television that controls it, I would say, one hard wing of the ruling coalition or clicks however you like. And when a coup is done in one of the states of South America or Africa, then the first building of government, parliament buildings, police buildings and television is occupied. It's the foundation of society, actually. So, television is taking over, not doing, what's going on, no easy way. But when one picture shows a coup on one television of any state, then it's a coup. And that's why the building is being occupied, and this is a silent coup by Croatian television. And this is how terror, terror, is exercised over Croatian television employees. Imagine you have to. They'll see every e-mail. Two employees are hired to follow people's e-mails, phone calls, to become a pay phone, so you can't receive an email from anyone without this one reading it to you. So where's that? So where's the secret network public? What's that? It is written publicly even by a medium that is in the function of this ruling [[Thank you very much.]] I'm reading today in the morning. [[Intruder: You're running out.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u47704	You're out of time. And in Croatia there is no coup but a democratically elected government that has a majority in Parliament. At 12 o'clock, I'm asking you to be in the hall because we're going to vote on the points discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51191	... - Final proposal for a law implementing Council Regulation (EC) No 4/2009 of 18 December 2008 on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and cooperation in matters relating to maintenance obligations, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 452 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[Home is not saved.]] You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth, Ms Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The European Council stresses the need to establish specific common procedural rules in order to simplify and speed up the resolution of cross-border disputes relating to inter alia and the requirements for abstention. It has also taken up the abolition of the previous measures necessary for the recognition and enforcement of a court decision in the requested State, and is firstly taken in another Member State by judicial decisions relating to restraint. This Regulation has also been adopted in the framework of the European Union. In addition, the European Union is a party to the 2007 Hague Convention on the International Payment of Enquiries for Child Support and Other Forms of Family Support and has joined the 2007 Protocol on the IAS. Both documents are international agreements between the Intergovernmental Organisation and the Hague Conference on International Private Law, which was joined by the European Union. The basic objective of Council Regulation 4 of 2009 on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and cooperation in matters relating to maintenance obligations and to the provision of a abstention to the abstention of enforcement decisions when the exiting or enforcement of a decision covers the area of two or more Member States of the European Union. In order to achieve this objective, the Regulation contains uniform rules on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of legal assistance, as well as on the cooperation of central authorities. The Regulation shall cover all maintenance obligations arising from the family relationship or parenting, marriage or Tasby kinship. The Regulation shall apply both to judicial decisions and to decisions of other administrative authorities on restraint, to court settlements and to authentic documents. Requests under this Regulation shall be authorised to submit abstentions and restraint bonds. Depending on the procedural situation, it is possible to submit a request for recognition or for recognition and declaration of enforcement of the decision, an application for enforcement procedure, a request for a court ruling, a request for an amendment of the judgment and others. The requirements shall be submitted in the prescribed forms via the central authorities. In this respect, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, in the capacity of the Central Authority for the Council Regulation 4/2009, will assist applicants in sending and receiving such requests, when initiating the procedure or facilitating the initiation of the procedure on the basis of the applications submitted. In addition, assistance will be provided when finding a abstention or abstentionary person in the provision of income data and other necessary financial circumstances of the abstention or abstentionary person. A significant role of the central body is also to encourage the achievement of friendly solutions in order to voluntarily pay for the maintenance. The Regulation lays down two regimes of rules on the recognition and enforcement of decisions, depending on whether decisions have been taken in the Member States bound by the 2007 Hague Protocol or in the Member States not bound by that Protocol. In addition, this Regulation also lays down specific rules on judicial jurisdiction in relation to applicable law, referred to the application of the Hague Protocol of 23 November 2007 on the applicable law for maintenance obligations, the uniform procedural rules on the recognition, enforcement and enforcement of judicial decisions, the rules on access to justice, the content of legal assistance, the general and specific functions of the central authorities and the procedure for submission and the content of the application are prescribed. It shall also establish the possibility of public authorities to initiate appropriate procedures in the capacity of the abstentionary person. The proposed law provides for the implementation of the Regulation, establishes the ministry responsible for social care affairs as a central authority for the implementation of the Regulation, while the bodies of application will be courts and centres for social care. In order to ensure the effective application and implementation of the Regulation and of this law, the cooperation of the central body of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth with the authorities of the State Administration responsible for the affairs of finance, justice, internal affairs, external and European affairs and other bodies has been prescribed. As this law is implemented in accordance with the European Union document, it is proposed to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51193	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected representative of Peja Grbin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51194	Dear Mr. Vice President, Ms. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The objective of Council Regulation No 4 from 2009 is most easily summarised in one of the introductory phrases of that Regulation, and this abstention should be able to easily obtain a decision in a Member State that will be automatically implemented in another Member State without any further formalities. All those who have ever met in the Republic of Croatia with the conduct of the restraint procedure know how complicated these procedures are, not only in terms of obtaining a concrete decision but above all in implementing the same. When an international element is introduced in this restraint process, it is only then that for a person seeking restraint, implementation and maintenance it becomes particularly complicated. In accordance with the above, this Regulation applies to maintenance obligations arising from the family relationship, parenting, marriage or matrimonial. Also, as already stated by the Vice-Presidents, this regulation transposes provisions of the UN Convention on International Payment of Requests for Child Support and Other Forms of Family Restraint from 2007, as well as the UN Protocol on the relevant Law on Restraint Obligations of 2007 which also aims to facilitate the procedures and implementation of the abstention Decisions. This decision shall firstly determine the jurisdiction of the court for the conduct of the proceedings in order to refrain from the jurisdiction of those courts before which the defendant or person requesting restraint shall have their usual residence. This prevents the possibility which has been used very often so far, that people who wish to avoid their obligation to abstain apply, above all, the rules of domestic law on jurisdiction and thus facilitates the applicants of abstention to receive timely judicial protection. This Regulation further facilitates and implements, not only the decision to abstain. There are two rules here. In those countries applying the 2007 Protocol and those countries which do not apply the Protocol. The decision taken in a Member State not bound by the 2007 Hague Protocol shall be recognised in other Member States and shall not be required to initiate any procedure until a decision adopted in a Member State bound by the Hague Protocol is also recognised in another country but without any possibility of abolishing its recognition. This means that when a country makes a decision, the other State is obliged to implement such a decision and cannot conduct any proceedings which would be taken into the content of that decision. Not to mention, given the reasons for the applicants, this Regulation will significantly lead to the improvement of the status of those persons seeking restraint, and because of the nature of the relationship between the parties, such a procedure extends beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. beyond the borders of an individual EU Member State, which is why the SDP club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51195	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, a respected colleague, Ivanka Roksandić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51196	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Minister and Deputy Prime Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. And we discussed the proposal for this law implementing Council of Europe Regulation No 4/209 of 18 December 2008 on the purpose of reading it in respect of the area of maintenance obligations arising from family relations or parenting, marriage, etc. Close relatives in order to treat all abstentions alike. As the Minister and former counterpart of the Grbin Regulation have said, above all, that the abstentional persons in all Member States will receive a decision that will be implemented in another Member State without any formalities, i.e. It is precisely to facilitate this process as a colleague of the coat of arms has said, and all this is in order to ensure that our citizens are protected as much as possible, and that means that all the Member States of the European Union will have to or must, as we do now, adapt their regulations. It is important to point out that this Regulation lays down only the right applicable to maintenance obligations and does not determine the right applicable to family relations. The determination of family relations remains covered by national law of a Member State, not the Union, and judicial decisions on matters of abstention taken in a Member State and EU Member States are considered to be enforceable in all other EU Member States without specific verification in the Member State of enforcement, which is precisely this to facilitate the whole process. It is very important that in these cases, and my predecessors have said, it is a very sensitive area of family, parental relations. EU countries establish a good system of cooperation between the authorities that designate Member States for the implementation and collection of maintenance claims. In this particular proposed law, Article 3 of the Ministry of Social Care has determined that the central body for the implementation of this Regulation and of this law, as well as social care centres, is responsible for the affairs of social care. This issue in our legislation has been addressed in Family Law. The specific chapter of this law of the present and of the future who is currently in the debate is dedicated to supporting children, parents and other relatives who are prescribed who has the right in which cases and who are the obligations of those who are the beneficiary of the restraint and the obligation to have mutual relations between parents and children. So this problem once again, and this law does not touch that of our legal obligation to abstain, but only to implement and make judicial decisions. I must say in the end that here it is, we will support this law, but I am sorry that in six points of this law, pardon the articles of this law we received yesterday and rightly so, we received amendments to the table and that 5 amendments of the Croatian Government. This law is addressed to us in a procedure from the government on July 26th, so at the time of that summer break. On October 3rd, the Government adopted amendments at its session, but not as regards the core of this law, but as regards the harmonisation of nomotechnical and Croatian expressions, so it is good for the Deputy Prime Minister to change the name of this law because I deliberately read this title of this law at the beginning of my colleague and colleagues, which you do not understand when you read it. I mean, it's hard to understand. I think that future, colleagues and colleagues, and we have the Office of Law in the Croatian Parliament should come under harmonised laws with Croatian expression. I said six articles, the technical articles of this law have five amendments. I think it's inadmissible to a team that was more than two, more than two months' space to get them in line, that eventually this law is withdrawn and dressed, not put us in a procedure like this. Why? Because when you read Amendment 1. The government will be clear to you immediately. This is the Final Proposal for a Law implementing Council of Europe Regulation No 4/2009 in the field of jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition, enforcement of a decision and cooperation in matters relating to maintenance obligations. It's all clear, but this first one is currently in the process when you read it as if it wasn't written in Croatian. It is also good that you have improved this Article 4 which speaks through 21 points about the ministry's obligations as a central office because there is, and I will not say, a lot of non-Croatian expressions. So it was as if the law was written by a stranger who possibly translated the regulation from English, French or any language into Croatian. So, the one who doesn't know Croatian. We will certainly accept this regulation, it is of a technical nature and refers to the harmonisation of our legislation. In the procedure is the creation of a new Family Law which is also the minister we were at the debate together and on the Round Table two days ago in the Croatian Parliament which the three committees of the Croatian Parliament organised was the same note and it was the expert that a lot of inaccessible, incomprehensible for ordinary people, and colleagues and colleagues of all these issues related to the Family Law are related to our problems, everyday problems, and it is probably the only law that I will say to citizens who are not even involved in politics, those people who are concerned with the problems read, so they are using. Once again, along with these remarks that we are asking that these future laws really come nomotechnically arranged in the Croatian Assembly of HDZ will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51197	Thank you. A respected colleague, Boro Grubisic, will speak for the HDSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51198	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The seemingly technical law that should not be discussed much and as Mrs Roksandic said, there is not much to say. It is the implementation of Council Regulation No 4/2009. on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and cooperation in matters relating to maintenance obligations with a final proposal for a law where, in Article 4(4) of the 21st paragraph, it is very interesting to determine the exact part of the work of the central authority and any provisions relating to the relationship between those in the obligation of abstention of older persons. But I have to expand the subject a little bit, although it is clearly related to this, and say that today's present is the time when exactly older people say I would literally support young generations. Today, young people who have no job, where unemployment is over 50%, where they live with parents in parents' apartments by 25 or 30 years of age, are not separated because of their economic insecurities and inability to go elsewhere, today they are supported by those who will be in a position to apply this bill. Will this young generation be able to comply with the provisions of this bill? He won't. And why won't they? For two reasons. Either they will not be in Croatia because they will leave Croatia or they will be so over-indebted by all other taxes and obligations that they will not have the opportunity to support their parents who have supported them here at this time. I'm talking about the future now. Why do I say that? So here's what the general debt of the state is. Today, this country is in debt to the burden of future generations. On the back of the future generation will lie the burden of this country's debt, which now, by leaving the finance minister to America for a new debt of a billion and a half, say perhaps more if they are favourable interest, dollars. We can adopt all these European legislative proposals from the Council of Europe, the Directive, the European Commission, the European Parliament and so on. But the implementation of it will be very difficult or difficult. Just for the very reason of ours to say internal politics. When I speak then I'm glad that Madam Minister is here that I can tell her because we people are coming from the field but she hasn't been in the Croatian Parliament for long, but here's the implementation of, say, the acts of the ministry where someone else's help and care for a seriously ill person, an example from Laslova where she is
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51199	Comrade Grubisic, let's get on the subject of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51200	So, the topic is just...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51201	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51202	Well, you can't know what I'm thinking, nor should you know what I'm thinking. I'll say, so there must be an introductory word, yes, there must be a flow of thought and don't interrupt me please. That's not good ideas. So, when the solution to other people's help and care, so it falls into it, here you can see how I am correcting Mr. Stazic, comes right on the day of the death of a person who needed someone else's help and him, and the process lasted two years in the ministry of eating. With lawsuits, complaints, etc., with a procedure that lasted two years. Or I won't tell you now in my town of Slavonski Brod, come on, it was about little kids getting rid of everything, or it ended up the way it was before that kid died a year and a half ago. Everyone's back to work, all right, little bit of a barrel in a glass of water and a solution. This is not how it can be done but when it comes to older people, it is about maintaining older people about what we do and where the number of older people, the elderly population, the elderly population is growing and how I like to say that very soon or soon the Croatian state of Croatia will become the largest nursing home in Europe with beautiful climate and all other conditions, but only a nursing home. It would be better if it were some kind of youth home, then it would be so. We'll have old ladies from Europe and all over. Today we are the third oldest nation in Europe by the pyramid of life and then such legal proposals that talk about the relations of the restraint obligation are necessary, that is correct. But their application in a situation where we owe the younger generations so much, and now you can't see it, it's going to show up in 10, 15 years when they come to collect as the public debt interest has now come, then you'll see that they won't have anyone to enforce this law. It is clear that the HDSSB club will, although we do not have to comply with every E decision, directive, regulation, etc. But there are no bad things, it's just a technical law that the HDSSB will support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51203	I thank you, too. We don't have any more charges to discuss. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote at noon.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51204	Final proposal for a law implementing the Council of the European Community Regulation No. 4/2009 of 18 December 2008 on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and cooperation in matters relating to maintenance obligations, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 452. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia within the business period and became an integral part of the final draft law. That is why I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I find it unanimous, with 115 votes in favour, the Law implementing the PZE Regulation No. 452.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51205	We are moving to the next item of the agenda - Final Proposal for a Law implementing Council Regulation No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1347/2000, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 453. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth Ms Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51206	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is the second regulation that is now being implemented in some way through the law, so this law ensures the implementation of the Council Regulation in question no. 2201/2003 provides that the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth is as the central authority for the implementation of the Regulation while the implementing bodies will be courts and centres for social care. The Ministry of Social Policy and Youth will primarily assist parents in fulfilling their right to fulfil obligations in cross-border cases. The conclusions of the European Council support the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions as a cornerstone for the establishment of the right judicial area, with the priority of the right to visit children. It is concluded that judicial decisions in the field of family disputes should be automatically recognised throughout the Union without intervening proceedings or reasons for refusing to execute. Following that decision on the right to contact the child and the decision to surrender the child confirmed in the Member State of origin in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation should be recognised and implemented in all other Member States, without any additional procedure in which the means of enforcement of such decisions are still governed by national law. Since the issue of applying parental care rules often arises in the context of marriages within the EU, it is concluded that the proper existence of a single instrument for things involving divorce and parental care is more appropriate. Following the above, the EU Regulation of 27 November 2003 on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of court decisions in matrimonial disputes and matters of parental care which have been put out of force before the Regulation. 1347 of 2000 on jurisdiction and recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of marriage and parental responsibility for joint children of spouses. The Regulation concerns civil matters, the termination of marriage and the assignment of enforcement, transfer, limitation or withdrawal of parental care, including the right to parental care, the right to contact with the child, custody, care and other institutes, so that the regulation does not apply to adoption, maintenance obligations, the name and the name of the child. The uniform rules on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions on matrimonial disputes and matters on parental care have strengthened legal certainty and allowed faster implementation of procedures in cases with an international element within the EU, starting with the principle of mutual trust. The rules on jurisdiction in matrimonial matters and parental care are based on the criteria of residence or citizenship of spouses in marital matters and the whereabouts of a child in parental care cases. It further prevents the conduct of procedures between the same parties or procedures on the same matter in two or more EU Member States. It shall also provide for the possibility to transfer jurisdiction to that court which is more appropriate to resolve the case if the subject of jurisdiction is in the interest of the child. In urgent cases, the regulation allows for the determination of temporary and safeguard measures even when it is indeed in charge of the proceedings of another Member State's court. With regard to the recognition of decisions, it is possible to make it easier for the competent authorities to act more easily since the judicial decisions taken in one Member State are recognised in other Member States without the need to carry out any specific procedure. As regards the enforcement of decisions on parental care over a child in the Member State in which it has become enforceable, it shall have the same property in another Member State, if it has been declared in the first country, thus ending the need for a special procedure of declaring the enforcement of the decisions. In the implementation of this Regulation, the central body of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth will play an important role which has so far been acting as a central body for the Hague Convention on the Civil Law aspects of international child abduction. In this capacity, the Ministry will receive and forward requests from the scope of this Regulation, encourage peaceful dispute settlement in appropriate cases to assist in the conduct of the procedure and to carry out other tasks prescribed by the Regulation. And this law, of course, because it is the implementation of European Union documents, goes according to an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51207	Thank you, will the committee's rapporteurs take the floor? No, no, no. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative of Peja Grbin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51208	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Council Regulation No 2201 of 2003 applies regardless of the nature of the court in civil matters relating to divorce, legal separation or annulment of marriage, i.e. to the assignment of execution and transfer, restrictions or withdrawal of parental responsibility. Subject matter relating to the issue of parental responsibility, i.e. what is referred to as parental care in our law, may refer to the right to parental care and the right to contact the child, care, care, care and similar institutes, the determination and duties of any person or body who provides for the child and his property, whom he or she represents and helps, the accommodation of the child in the foster home or institution and the protection measures. The European Council meeting in Tampere on 15 and 16 October 1999 provided support to the head of mutual recognition of judicial decisions as a cornerstone for the establishment of a genuine judicial area of the European Union primarily in order to protect the child's interests. In that light, this regulation and the one that we have, that is, this Law and the one that we have discussed under the previous agenda, make up one whole. Because as is known in Croatia in any decision that decides on divorce must also decide on certain matters concerning children and, above all, on matters concerning child restraint or marriage mate. In this respect, this Regulation, which regulates the recognition of decisions by those in matrimonial or status disputes, would be important without that regulation as regards the implementation of the abstention decisions but would nevertheless not have the extent to which it really needs it. In this respect, this Regulation explicitly provides for a judicial decision taken in a Member State to be recognised in other Member States without the need for any specific procedure. The purpose of this Regulation is not to apply to matters relating to social protection, which was incorrectly referred to under the previous point by the distinguished colleague Boro Grubisic, public measures of general nature in matters relating to education and health care or to decisions on the right to asylum and immigration shall not apply to the establishment of paternity or motherhood, to status issues or to measures taken as a result of criminal offences whose perpetrators are children. The jurisdiction in matters relating to parental responsibility laid down in this Regulation and which is now being transposed into Croatian legislation is based on the protection of the child's interests, in particular by applying the criteria of connectivity. This means that jurisdiction is regulated in a way that is, in the first instance, the competent Member State in which the child is resident. So, when we determine jurisdiction, we go first and foremost from protecting the child’s interests, which is particularly important and what is the criterion that absolutely needs to be guided. The exception, of course, must exist and these are certain cases where the child’s residence is changed or the child’s residence is handled in accordance with the agreement between parents. In that part of the application of this Regulation as regards judicial decisions in matrimonial matters, the Regulation shall apply only to the termination of the marriage relationship itself. This means that, outside the application of this Regulation, issues such as the grounds for divorce, the consequences of marriage on property issues or other auxiliary measures remain. The Regulation provides that the recognition and enforcement of court decisions taken in one Member State is based on the principle of mutual trust and the reasons for non-recognition must be limited to the minimum possible measure. For example, the Regulation sets out as reasons for non-recognition: the existence of an earlier decision in the country in which a court ruling is requested or if the parties are not allowed to participate in the proceedings. However, recognition of a court ruling cannot be refused because the right of the Member State in which recognition is sought does not allow divorce, legal separation or annulment of marriage on the basis of the same factual situation. Public documents, and this is particularly important, the agreement between the parties that are executive in one Member State must be considered as valuable as the judgments for the purpose of applying the recognition and enforcement rules. Finally, the regulation provides that, in order to facilitate the application of this Regulation, the central authorities of the Member States in charge of the implementation of this Regulation are to meet and consult regularly to facilitate, or propose, the adoption of any other regulation that would make this matter even better regulated. In short, as in the case of a previous regulation concerning the abstention and introduction of this Regulation into the Croatian legal system, it will lead to a significant improvement in those whose issue of marriage and or the relationship of parents and children extends beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia, which is why the Club of Representatives of the SDP supports the adoption of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51209	Thank you. A respected colleague, Ivanka Roksandic, will speak on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51210	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Associates. Here is also the case with this regulation and I will read again the draft law, the proposal for a law on the implementation of Council of Europe Regulation No 2201/2003. of 27 November 2003 on jurisdiction, recognition, enforcement of court decisions, on matrimonial disputes and matters relating to parental liability which is put outside the scope of Regulation No 1347/2000 by the Final Proposal of the Law. We will support the proposal of this Law, although as in the previous bill, we could say that it is technically because it determines and ensures the implementation of this Regulation. determines the central authority responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and has been said before that it is designated by the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. And the bodies that will apply this Regulation are certainly courts and centres for social care. The law only has 6 articles, fortunately and fortunately, we have only one amendment in the name of this law. So he's still a little bit better written nomotechnically. The regulation, as counterpart Grbin said, concerns jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of court decisions in matrimonial disputes and matters related to parental responsibility and should therefore be supported because it is certainly one step forward in relation to other members, the European Union countries and our relations when it comes to addressing child care and care, and that is what is most important. This regulation regulates I will say a very, very sensitive area as well as the one with restraint because it enters into family, parental relations. It regulates relations at the time of the divorce, but does not deal with the issues of divorce, the consequences of property issues or any other auxiliary measures. The Regulation concerns measures to protect the child in the function of the body or persons who care for the child’s property, represented by the child, assists or preserves and disposes of the child’s property. In particular, this is important at the moment, as counterpart Grbin said, when parents in the divorce process cannot agree on the management of the child's property. The obligation to abstain, the restraint we talked about in the previous regulation, has been excluded from the scope of this Regulation but it is therefore very important that these two regulations are connected and it is good that they come here I will say somehow for discussion in this package of laws. The Regulation does not apply either to the establishment of paternity or motherhood, to matters relating to social security, to public measures relating to education, health and asylum and immigration decisions. The Regulation also determines the jurisdiction of courts in dealing with parental responsibility, in particular in the interests of the protection of a child whose proximity is important. jurisdiction in the conduct of the country where the child has the usual residence, which is very important when the parents eventually live in two different countries again, and the child I will say is often on the road between the two stays of the child. In particular, what should be pointed out in order to protect children in this Regulation and their rights is to unlawfully take away and support the child. We have the Hague Convention of October 25, 1980, which knows exactly how to handle an illegal child being taken away or detained without the knowledge or approval of one of the parents who takes care of a child, but often colleagues and colleagues do not in practice come to this. It is good that now two central bodies between the two Member States of the European Union, and we will pass this law that defines exactly that cooperation, as counterpart Grbin said, between those two bodies because they must agree whether a child is once in the kidnapping process or only possibly, i.e. illegal detention with one parent or detention with some right to have a parent have the right to keep a child. There have been several procedures in Croatia where the detention of a child has often been declared a kidnapping, and in fact there has been no kidnapping. It is therefore good for the central bodies of the two countries to cooperate closely in implementing these regulations. Such cases are precisely defined in this Regulation, so it is known exactly when it comes to what it is. These regulations are usually with us, as I said in the adoption of the first regulation, related to Family Law. The new Family Law, a proposal for a new Family Law, is under discussion, it has also caused major criticism from experts in this debate. I hope that the positive ministers will influence you and those who make the law and that we will get a revised law with all those proposals that should certainly be respected in this public debate. As I said in the first regulation, he's quite incomprehensible in some cases. In this proposal, and also in the proposal for a previous law which we have now discussed, you have explained that additional resources are needed in the state budget for the implementation of this law, in order to increase the scope and complexity of businesses, to improve and participate in certain procedures that are in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia, and for applicants from another country, that means this cooperation that I spoke about. But at the end of 2013, although the budget in some paragraphs is reduced, it will probably not be used, I sincerely hope that when you adopt a new budget, you will be making sure that the financial resources you will need are kept in your ministry, because such procedures will unfortunately become more and more. And as I said and purposely read the name of the law, it is good that, after all, we have really harmonised our expressions and adapted these laws to the Croatian language, so the final proposal for a law implementing the Council of Europe No. 2201/2003 in the field of jurisdiction, recognition of enforcement of court decisions in matrimonial matters and in matters related to parental care, I think it is understandable to all. And what we had in this proposal is this long title that almost doesn't say anything, I think it's just confusing. And once again, I will ask you in the future that you really come and pass the government harmonised laws, laws that are nomotechnically arranged because two months have passed as in the previous law since the entry into the procedure into the Croatian Parliament until here is the final amendment before the debate itself. Otherwise, as far as the regulation is concerned, the Croatian Democratic Community club will also support this regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51211	Thank you. On behalf of Croatian Labourists – the party of work will speak to the respected colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51212	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, the Deputy Secretary, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I expected these two discussions to be united, this and the previous item of the agenda. However, it was obvious that it was not appropriate to do so although the debate and colleagues of Grbin and distinguished colleagues of Roksandic were seen to be very closely related, that these two points of the agenda were naturally based on each other. That is why my observations, as well as my predecessors and my observations, will also apply partly to the previous agenda. What my colleague Roxandić ended up with would be my start. Preparations of materials coming to the Parliament's agenda, or amendments that passed the government yesterday, show enough the seriousness of this government in joining this kind of business. I think it's really inadmissible that these things happen, and before you even look at the previous item of the agenda in Article 4 of point 11. you have a raw text that even the translator left the solution that someone who decides to choose which term is more favourable, which is more appropriate, which is more professional. I don't know how I'd get a better picture of it. I think it's really unserious, but it's not the first time, I trust it won't be the last time. And judge for yourself. What I have reported for this item of the agenda is primarily the introductory part of the evaluation and the source of the necessary means to implement this law. Normally, given the regulation that some new obligations arise and that this should also be financed, i.e. to provide financial resources for it. This primarily refers to the needs of education, travel costs and similar ones. There's this translation between what we saw a little while ago and it's absolutely fine on that side. Only when the financial resources are at stake and the budget is what is now just before my colleague, Roksandić, mentioned I would like to remind you of the amendments to the Rules on the amount of the amount and the method of payment of the parental care control fee that has come out of this same ministry these days, where the fee from 500 kn has been reduced to 100 kn. In doing so, the explanation we could read in the media is that the measure is of temporary character. Well, I can agree that it's a temporary character and I hope that there really will be a temporary character. However, I would remind you that you are a year and a half and a little more in power, that there was an opportunity to record the situation and can't case Slavonski Brod or such individual cases is the reason that we cut it everywhere and everyone. It can't be that reason to say ok. Now we don't need it anywhere, because with this measure of lowering these funds from 500 kn to 100 kn we simply came into a situation that all 2235 supervisors, or those who are not in the system of the welfare center, so the rest of the 1481 external associates will be forced to cancel further cooperation. They will cancel further cooperation from what the Croatian Association of Social Workers and the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers wrote that it is an insult to the profession and with full right they say it and I think that everyone normal must agree with it, but will cancel for practical reasons. I'm from Sisko. In Sisak, the Social Care Centre covers the area if I'm not wrong about the whole county or around, it's not the whole county, but it's almost getting to the bottom of the county. Do you know how many miles from Sisak to the Court? I'm asking you who's going to take his car, his 100 kuna transport, to go from Sisak to the Court and go back because you don't have any dogs in the Court, not to mention the maltene dogs. Unfortunately, the area is completely abandoned. We can also mention the Iron, but it's not the Court. It's some hammer above the Court because usually such families are unfortunately somewhere on some side roads where there's no electricity, no water, no other elemental living conditions, but there's a need. Now, we are now being saved, leading to an existing budget because it is said that about 90% of the funds planned for this purpose for this year have already been spent, or at the end of August these funds have already been spent. I think it's coming out, and it means no analysis whatsoever. I repeat, after a year and a half, the authorities even reduced the funds in the budget from the previous year when it amounted to 40.2 million kuna to the planned funding for 2013 from 28.7 million. If we take into account the crisis and the cuts are everywhere, I'm not so sure that cutting this item went with some kind of system, with some calculation, with some planning which, why, with control of the current and identified irregularities, I believe it wouldn't happen so we're just going to determine how many more of these we have. I think it's the Ministry's approach, so I'm not going to say that it's extremely unserious, dilettane. We can't approach that as a hobby. We've just discovered something, okay? We'll change it. We're in modeling, so now we don't like a part of it, so we're gonna change that part. There are living people here, children. So without any criteria to cut off the funds, bring these families into the situation we've brought them into, I think it's really incorrect. On the other hand, a lot of remarks were made in a relatively short time by the minister on the work of workers in welfare centres. I believe there's a good part of those remarks in place.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51213	Comrade Novak, what does this have to do with this proposed law, what you're saying now?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51214	The funding's from the same, I'm talking about it. Okay, here's a short cut for you, but just to tell you that the financial resources needed for the social work of the center on the ground are such that, say, a centre in Sisak has one vehicle, so people wait three, four months for that same vehicle so that they can do what their regular job is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51215	Thank you, too. We have two replicas reported. First, my colleague Ivanka Roksadnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51216	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Novak, you have opened one topic that is not directly related to this law that we are discussing but is very important for the lives of our fellow citizens. You mentioned the Centre for Social Care in Sisak, you mentioned the area of Sisak-Moslavina County. Yes, we must take real care of such areas, this is an area that is both economically and materially completely endangered. I don't know how much I keep talking about this kindergarten in Croatia because you believe he was closed three days ago. We recently introduced the Preschool Act, obliged local self-government units to implement the law in 2014, and closed the kindergarten in Croatia. And this doesn't matter what I said, but it does matter because you mentioned both Dvor and Croatia Kostajnica. Well, these, as you called them supervisors, because these are people who follow, otherwise, what happens to children who are in foster families really in the county that is so spatially large, and so in some parts of the town that are underpopulated, and in these parts are families that most often host children, families that have the most problems those people who are moving were social workers, people who have reported to those supervisors as you have called them are people who won't believe the 500 kunas they've received and spent. Because the bus ticket and what you said is a distance in the City of Zagreb and in one Sisak-Moslavina County, Ličko-Senj County is not the same. It is not the same to travel in our county, in Lica, in the City of Zagreb or in some counties that are spatially small but more populated. That's their luck. But what will happen to those 100 kunas? Exactly what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51217	Time. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51218	Let me finish, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51219	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51220	Exactly what you said to your colleague will be gone for you, but then there will be no surveillance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51221	Thank you, colleague Roksandić. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51222	Thank you, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51223	Answer me, colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51224	Thank you very much. It's all true what you said. I hope this by the ministry won't be understood as not knowing anything negative, this purely well-intentioned suggestion, I welcome what is stated to be a temporary measure. But let it take as short as possible, so that the situation can be resolved. I know it's not gonna be New Year's Eve because of the budget and all that stuff, but believe me, this is a real situation now that's indistinguishable on the ground. He puts people in despair. I mean, after all, what about those families? Who takes responsibility for all these cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51225	My colleague Novak, colleague Roksandić, while I'm in charge of the session, I have to guard the Rules of Procedure. It's my duty. No one mind if we discuss the situation here in the kindergarten in Kostajnica, but suggest a part of the agenda, the president will accept it, and we'll discuss it all day. Just don't violate the Rules of Procedure to speak off topic, kindly please. It'll be easier for everyone. Second replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51226	Thank you very much. In Croatia Kostajnica there is Kesteniada, you can leave freely, until Sunday, and kindergarten doesn't have to be. That's how it all turns out. But I wanted to talk about the topic Mr. Novak was talking about, which is those 100 kunas that are given to employees of the Centre for Social Work from Sisak to go I don't know about Žirovac, Lotin, Iron, Brđane, Zrin, etc. But I think that should be lifted, too, Mr. Novak. In fact, there will soon be no one to go to because there will be no more inhabitants there. It is the soft belly of Croatia, a completely empty end, and even those 100 kunas will not be necessary for someone to go there at all and scout what it is for, and that is the problem from the domain of social care. So with its 75 inhabitants per square kilometre, Croatia really does and most of the parts of Sisak-Moslavina County will not actually need these 100 kunas for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51227	On behalf of the HDSSB club, dear colleague Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51228	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister. The important topic, which was imposed on Friday morning as a topic that is ahead of the session of the parliament this week due to the 8th October Independence Day, which is on Tuesday. We could've worked Wednesday, say, but that's a good thing for the presidency. However, I wanted to say that this important topic, which today is under the heading of the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Council Regulation of 27 November 2003, is now the jurisdiction of 10 years of difference, recognition, enforcement of court decisions in matrimonial matters and in matters related to the parental responsibility of those parents, which has been put out of force since 2000. At the time of the government, there is no colleague Kosor, a court ruling was issued in Croatia for alimony of one of the parents' alimony of 9 kuna per month. The court ruling and its argument were absolutely correct. This second parent who has to pay 9 kuna does not work, has no income, has nothing on him and the judge is quite right according to his material situation, according to his property condition, according to his income and salary or income on completely correct cut off by looking at the legal side of 9 kuna monthly alimony. On the other hand, the other parent or that child when they are self-aware should be asked what is he or that child with 9 kuna alimony? And what can be done with nine kunas in the first place? Not everything is 7 o'clock this time 9 kuna. I'm not saying this on behalf of the judiciary's criticism because the judge did the right thing and ruled it out. It's absolutely right. But I'm talking about this case that's bizarre a little bit but it's about this matter, so this is exactly what it is. Now in Chapter 3, it says "recitals and sources of the necessary means to implement this law" and says sources are therefore the money needed to implement this law require the provision of additional financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia and then lists. What is the increase in additional financial resources? It refers to the pay difference of existing personnel. I didn't know personally that the frames were needed at the welfare centers. I knew that the number of centers compared to previous delusions was increased twice as much as the directors, directors, managers, I don't know exactly what the name is. So there used to be one center in Slavonski Brod now have two one's in Gradišca one in the Ship. He used to be, I don't know if Sisak was one in Petrinja or not. So the number of centres increased, the number of directors increased, the number of secretaries increased, the number of cars increased, etc. Coming clearly to this Kukurik coalition because of its efficiency, because of the efficiency of the work of these centres because they are closer to those in need in social care, that was the explanation. Now that they're closer and what counterpart Novak should say is he gets a car, his car to a user who has problems or anything else at the welfare center, then he gets 100 kuna. So he's wondering if he's going to go there, and he needs it. But here we have additional financial resources as opposed to the salary of existing personnel on an increased scale and the higher complexity of the business that requires the implementation of this Regulation. Then additional financial resources on official travel, then additional resources for the education of a staff member, costs of assistants in the field of jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia, etc., for translation costs. Now, when it comes to foreign affairs and cases, there is clear that there is an objective increase in jobs in terms of translation, etc. Although I think they speak English today as much in these services as in other services. And this law is a harmonisation with the European acquis and it bears the E mark and since we will have more pre-legal proposals in relation to harmonisation because the committees of the European Union and of the European Parliament in charge of social care issues are constantly working. They are the ones who create, these committees create social policy and force it to debate at the plenary session of the European Parliament, so they also submit proposals to the European Commission. So, given the subsidiarity and the fact that it always is, such legal proposals are always in terms of improving the social care area, the HDSB Club will not be against it, so it will be for this legislative proposal, which I would also say about technical nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51229	We're moving on to replicas, the first respected colleague of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51230	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I replicate my colleague Grubisic in his opening work where he objected that we were talking about this important topic at 5am. Imagine Friday morning, 10:30, TV broadcast, because it's like the end of a week, so I guess we're not supposed to be here to discuss it, so on the eve of an extended weekend. And by the way, for the last two, three days, I've been listening to complaints all the time, so it turns out that nothing in the afternoon should work because all the topics are too important, and after three hours of the afternoon, we shouldn't be discussing anything, so I guess we're supposed to be working until three o'clock. Well, then, I don't know, I guess there's gonna be an observation as to why Tuesday morning, why Wednesday, let the subject not fit on Thursday. Now it turns out there's nothing we should be discussing on Friday morning. It's not about irrelevant subjects. And how many times they say that every topic should be important and that it's important regardless of whether we discuss it in the morning or in the afternoon or in the evening. Because that's our working hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51231	We will now hear the response of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51232	My colleague Sobol, your tone speaks so you can fight with me and I won't. You know very well what Friday is and that somehow some topics are easier to get to the vote as soon as possible. And secondly, you can see for yourself that Mr. Vice President of the Parliament who runs this session neatly hastens both Novak and me, interrupting the topic, are not like this and like this. So, it's visible, it's visible from everything. I didn't say that we shouldn't discuss this or that today, and ultimately, this topic was delayed by the debate that was supposed to be two days ago, Mrs. Sobol. Right? ... Well, there you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51233	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, I don't rush anyone, I don't rush anyone, but while I run the session, we have to take care of our respect for the Rules of Procedure. And the Rules of Procedure say you can talk about the agenda point and nothing else. The second replica, dear colleague of Gyurjitsumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51234	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Grubisic. First, I would disagree if this wasn't the topic to be discussed now in the morning, but you're good to me... whether on behalf of Croatia and that Croatian people know because today we are all called Croatian MPs in the Parliament for the reason that the Independence Day celebrated for the reason that Croatia broke off all relations with the former SFRY because the rocketling of the Ban Courts, which is tomorrow marked not to be marked on Mondays or Tuesdays, so we were called [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Excuse me, excuse me. [[/Intruder: colleagues of the twilight. Hey, buddy, wait a minute.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51235	No, no, I'm sorry, what was my colleague Grubisic talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51236	Yeah, he was talking about October 8th. Yeah, yeah, yeah, we're being called their parliamentary representatives lazy, and we don't want that day to be like fellow Sobol said that we have an extended weekend, that's not true. That's not true. On Saturday, neither will Prime Minister Milanovic be here. I don't understand why. We're ready to come in on Tuesday morning, we're ready to come in on Monday, we're ready to work all next week.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51237	And after this replica of yours, they'll still call us because we don't know how to read the Rules of Procedure. Replication response. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51238	Thank you, comrade twilight, for your replica. And it's true that I said that I would be ready to come on Tuesday, right on Independence Day to mark that day. But that day was thus derrogated by the County Court in Zagreb and the Supreme Court in Zagreb, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia when it said that everything that is therefore, all the units that were formed before 8 October were not legal in the Republic of Croatia. So here is the day of the Navy, the Croatian Navy before 15th, 20th day, which was also the President of the Republic, which is actually an illegal formation according to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia from Branimir Glavas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51239	And this reply to the replica has a lot to do with the Law implementing the Council Regulation. My colleagues and colleagues, if anyone wants to talk outside the subject, so they can call a press conference here in the Parliament and talk about whatever they want. But let us not be ashamed of ourselves in front of the Croatian public. Let us take this work seriously. We are discussing a very concrete bill. Final Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth Ms Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51240	I'm sorry, Vice President of the Parliament, but you're only going to have to give me two minutes to answer some things because, no matter what's the matter, some things have been said here that I might have to answer. Namely, when it comes to welfare centres, Mr. Grubisic, I ask you nicely to make an analysis, give yourself some effort. Not a single center has been increased in its number. So it was all back to the old, as many centers as it was, there have been the last 40 years and the centre in Petrinja and the centre in Sisak, all the centers have existed so far. So they were branches and they were still centers. As far as the principal is concerned, I'm asking you. They're just one of their employees downtown. They're not executives, they're no high-paying managers, they're people who work downtown who are just because directors have an obligation and responsibility to organize work in the center and have no administrative secretaries and have no corporate cards and no cars. Speaking of cars, at this point we've won a public competition at the Leasing 60 cars going into the system. The press wrote that these are cars where most likely the minister will drive in all 60 days, I guess 60 days I'll be driving every day in another. So 60 cars were bought for the system on operational Leasing. If we'd bought like the former government did, we could've bought 24 cars, we'd have got 60 on operational leave. Everyone goes into the system, I know exactly which centers don't have any cars to go to the field. Here's a center in Čakovec that has one big area with no car to drive around with. That's right. So there are a lot of unfortunately old car centers, cars that spend a lot more on repairs, some are no longer in driving condition, so some will be able to write off and nothing more. As far as surveillance is concerned, the fact is that it is a temporary measure, talks are under way at regional level with directors of all centres. All center workers are aware of the financial situation in the ministry, and they also know that we have so far drawn the maximum, that in the centres we have tried to hire all those people who have retired because we know that they have been sub-capacitated professionally, and in that part we have tried to maintain as much as we could, therefore, that standard in this sense we do not endanger them anywhere. As far as the controls themselves are concerned, they will, at this point, be aware of the situation, organise controls by the end of the year with their own capacities, which means that all those whose supervision is necessary and necessary will not be left unsupervised. The fee to the supervisor who was 500 kuna was compensation for his work, but there was no cost compensation, which means that what you're saying is that someone would pay for their transportation to a place, that's something that was paid extra. This was a fee for work and this fee has now been reduced temporarily because we do not have enough funds in the budget by the end of the year. But once again, I would like to say because of citizens who are often disturbed by these statements, surveillance will work for all those families who need it because the centres with their capacities and supervision will organise, redistribute working hours. So it's the job of these directors for which you at least characterized them as some big managers with not knowing what rights and wages, so it's simply the employees of the centre who, with the principal job, are usually still doing other jobs in the center, of course everything that is in line with their profession and their education. So in the welfare system, the budget really didn't go down, we're trying to operate in conditions in which, despite finding a number of people who are now climbing almost 7,000 people who didn't have any rights, and they took social rights due to lack of control mechanisms. So we get how one part went so one part comes into the welfare system. It's something that's never a static figure, it's a number that's constantly changing, one comes in, one comes out of that system, and it's important for us to provide social support funds, that those who can't live without the social benefits get that social compensation. And that's what social care center employees understand very well, they've never really had roses, they don't bloom to them today, and so much they know how to do it in difficult conditions because they've never been too good at it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51241	Replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51242	Minister Opačić, it is clear to me that in a country where the situation is as it is, where we are brought in, perhaps, it is no longer a harsh word of debt slavery, that social care centres and even social labour funds are very minimal and that we do not expect anyone to expect your government to increase the funds and material expenditures of the welfare centre. With the formation of several centres, we also expressed doubts about the number of centres. After all, if you're already pushing the max to the finish line, we'll determine the material expenditures, the expenses and everything else, the work of the center, so I can set up if you want a written inquiry to the government and you'll answer me. As far as the car is concerned, I never claimed that they were driving cars, that they had credit cards as they were already called, and I don't know what. Well, we don't have any parliamentary representatives either, let the citizens know we don't have any of that, but we're not thank God for the welfare. And when you talk about the Čakovec that they have one car in Međimurje County, so you haven't found a happy example in view of the Međimurje County which we know how large it is on the surface, although it is denser populated than Novak's Sisak-Moslavina or some other county or Brodo-Posaviska, but you can walk across. I would not like to undermine the importance of the Međimurje County, but indeed on the surface it is one of the smallest counties in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51243	Second replica, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51244	Thank you. Dear Madam Vice President, I have a need to agree with you when it comes to the level of income that the directors of the social care center receive, and that should be said, I think you're absolutely right so maybe it's misunderstood, it's not really, and I can confirm about no major incomes and these people are really hard to do. What's the problem is maybe that you've pointed out yourself, there's not enough professional staff and maybe in that sense you should all work together, and you within your own ministry, but also at government level to find some models to stimulate young people to go into those occupations that are objectively deficited. And I have to say that here, and based on experiences from my own environment, social care centres should probably get recognition of what they do in the conditions in which they work, I would say in a satisfactory way my job. The criticisms that come, however, need to be taken well-intentioned. They're not always just to be criticised. Yes, wherever it can be saved, let it be saved, although I personally think there are several good programs that you have run and that should be supported at the level of units of local self-government. We've recently had opportunities to witness the program of dislocated children's units with behavioral difficulties. And I think that kind of example, the programs are much more acceptable to everyone and when we come across some problems. Therefore, the criticisms that come should always be seen from the other side, not purely critical but also well-intentioned so that all together and out of opposition can come some good proposals. So, I had a intentional need just to say, there are some very good things that have happened in this ministry and that need to be said publicly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51245	This replica is covered by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Young Mrs Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51246	Maybe just here for some information exchange, yeah. The fact is that in one part of Croatia there is simply one part of the professional staff. An example in the entire Vukovar-Srijem County when we were looking for a psychologist for the center we couldn't find him because he just wasn't there. Now in some institutions, we're leaving for example 20 logos in retirement. It's not in those city logos. So you can't really create people overnight, you can't educate them overnight. I agree with you that we should have maybe a corrected registration quota then, but that means still waiting three, four years until some generations of new ones come out, and until then, the question is, how are we going to manage? So now, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, we are thinking about whether we can requalify a part of the highly skilled staff that may be close to these professions so that, with some additional educations, we may be able to train them to work with our users. For indeed, when 20 logos leave you from one institution, and you do not have them, it is difficult to make up for. So this is one condition in which, in some parts of Croatia, there is simply no professional frame. We can even see if anyone does not know, for example, from Osijek stayed in Zagreb thinking that it would be easier to get a job here and bring it back. So here we are, in cooperation with the Employment Service, trying and doing this, but it's really hard in some areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51247	Thank you very much. Now the word on behalf of the Representatives' Club is looking for Jasen Mesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-04-0.u51248	We are going to the Final Proposal for a Law implementing the Council of the European Community Regulation No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1347/2000, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 453. The debate on the draft law is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament within the deadline and became an integral part of the final draft law. That is why I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you very much. I find it unanimous, with 116 votes in favour, the law of PZE No. 453, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Good morning. Dear colleagues of the MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we continue our work in the plenary session of the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament. According to the announcement, we are starting with: - Proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2013 and a proposal for a half-year report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2013 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Finance, respected Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
