ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56948	Good morning distinguished colleagues and respected fellow MPs, we continue the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on the established agenda. Now it's 11 o'clock. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State aid, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 498. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The final proposal was discussed by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56949	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the State aid Act, which proposes the addition of certain minor gaps observed in the State aid Act, which has been in force since 1 July 2013 for the sake of clarity and transparency of the behaviour of the State aid provider. In short, what we have done with that previous law means that the State Aid Act system has previously been introduced into a system of state aid in the Republic of Croatia when it joins the EU. There's been a change of AZTN. By entering Europe, it has actually lost the power to approve and control state aid now in the hands of the European Commission, and the Ministry of Finance has gained a new role in creating and implementing State aid policy. What is complemented by this law, which consists of 6 articles, is that the task left to do annually, AZTN was left with the task of drawing up an annual report for the Croatian Parliament for 2013, but the State Aid Act did not specifically stress that there was also a duty to grant state support for 2012 and it actually wants to make this supplement much clearer. AZTN has already collected data on state aids for 2011, it has processed them and is awaiting a legal basis to send the report to the Croatian Parliament. Other additions to the State aid Act were also drawn up in cooperation with the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Fund proposal, and are a clearer definition of the State aid programme, as well as the introduction of mandatory transparent treatment by the State support providers. So, by posting on your website the state support program. So, only two additions are related to AZTN so that it can submit reports to the Croatian Parliament for 2012 which was a lack of funding in this law and that in fact all these state support programmes are being published on the web pages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56950	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament Committee wish to submit reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is next to the HNS club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Marijan Skurić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56951	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State aid and amending the laws that we have adopted once this year, and this is a unanimous one, and this respects the fact and particularly emphasises that really support, first of all, also horizontal, but also support at the level of regional and local self-government are very important. We can talk about that part that these few years, or tens of years, are a few dozen billion of the support that has been defined and we can see whether and how they have affected our country's development. But on the basis of that part of the State Aid Act, it came into force on the date of accession of the EU Republic of Croatia on 1 July 2013. The State Aid Act also strengthened the role of the Ministry of Finance as a controller studying state aid proposals and assessing them in line with the guidelines of State aid policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Law amending and supplementing State aid would complement mainly the transitional and final provisions of the applicable State aid Act. Under that law, the European Commission is also responsible for approving the State aid proposal from 1.7.2013, and until the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU this authorisation belonged to the Competition Protection Agency, and, as such, the State Aid Act had to be removed by accession of the EU Republic of Croatia. Therefore, on the basis of all the powers already in force, the State Aid Act of 2005 and the Regulation on the form and content, and the way in which the data are collected and the state aid records are kept, the Competition Protection Agency began to collect data on the state aid granted in 2012 and by the State aid provider before the State aid Act came into force. The new State Aid Act disappeared from the legal authority of the Competition Protection Agency with the completion of that task in 2013. However, by adding to the provision of transitional and final provisions of the State aid Act, the Agency's obligations to protect competition, to draw up an annual report on State aid for 2012. This proposal for a law would continue the practice of drawing up annual reports, would ensure a continuous transition period by 2015, because the 2014 Report had already been prescribed by the Agency for the Protection of Competition for the task. In that part and the assessment of the resources needed, we do not need to provide additional resources in the state budget, and also here is the HNS Club will support this bill with one more emphasis that we are very important that the support that is by the state level, the local level be transparent and that in particular this Assembly in this report we can not only see what support is but also our provisions, legal provisions and make as effective and functional as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56952	Thank you, Your Honor. It is up to the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Đuro Popijač. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56953	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister with colleagues and colleagues. We don't really have much to say about the very essence of the law. Therefore, it is quite evident that there have been several oversights or perhaps not that it opens up the dilemma of the entire essence of the events around the Competition Agency itself, so also when the law was passed on 5.06.2013 and here are a whole series of procedural gaps on us and inconsistencies and poor moves and on issues and presidents of the current or new president or president of the Competition Agency, the members of the Competition Council themselves, and then the fact that AZTN has remained in one air-free space and without the legitimate leaders of the Competition Agency because the former president himself has adopted the mandate. It took a long time to even agree on who should inherit it or not, after all. Then there's the problem with the report itself. And it comes for this reason and now intervention into the law because 2012 is no longer left with the possibility of making a report as it has always been so far in the Competition Agency itself, so it is not until now, and the Ministry of Finance is obviously not ready and able to do so, but in the law, it remains an obligation, in the existing new law, to continue to produce this report for 2013 in AZTN. About the meddling itself and those who have created the law, and they are obviously the whole time the staff policy speaks here and now this necessary intervention in the law that must continue to be authorised by the Competition Agency to bring again in 2012 as always and boredom and submit a report to the Croatian Parliament. Why was this not envisaged but in the very proposal for a law adopted on 5.06, but now these interventions have to be adopted, and this is supposed to be done for 2014? So this all leaves one impression of one hell of a thing I would say in the whole procedure but it also raises this key question of what happens in the AZTN's humanization process itself. And then the amazing fact that last night, the Council president's discharge and the appointment of a new member of the council and of the new members and members of the council and the new president of the council without the position and opinion of the committees in charge, primarily the Committee on Economy itself. Namely, a meeting of the Committee on Economy was called on Wednesday 20.11. So, a week after the debate in the Parliament about these appointments. And it's also interesting when it's already here and I have an opportunity to say something about the appointment of Mr. Mladen Cerovac and the length of his mandate as a member of the council. I think the president's full term has expired, and the new president of the council has been appointed until the end of his term of office that he had in the council. So I think what is it? For what reason, of course, a man sits in that agency all the time, and we know him, doing a great job and boredom, but he is not appointed for the whole term, but he is appointed for the term of office of the one who remains to him as a member of the council. But obviously, given the new members of the council that are proposed, Denis Matic, Ljiljana Pavlic, Tatjana Perkovic is therefore obviously preparing the ground or perhaps a new person is being introduced who will probably then be on staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56954	You can go back on the subject, Your Honor, be kind.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56955	So, enough has been said about this, but here it is, of course, in context and that those who create this whole situation and around AZTN are also involved, but of course, we now see a blockage of AZTN for several months and the inability of AZTN itself that, for these reasons, it was too late or missed until 30.06 and to make that report and deliver it to the Croatian Parliament, and the Ministry of Finance is obviously not in a position, not ready, given that it has given various new competences in the matter of state support is not ready or ready to perform that role or this fact that it was also responsible for the 2012 report when it had already given itself the task. Here's what's mostly not important about this bill itself, but here's just the fact that even in this case in the case of such an important thing, in the budget situation in all of what we should have already had on the table to see the very fact of the effectiveness of granting state support that you're so boasting that they were completely different than they were in 2012, that they got incredible economic results compared to everything we've done in recent years, we don't have a report, we don't know what the effect of these support was in 2012, and obviously we're going to wait for it until here again AZTN does it. I don't think it's precisely because of this kind of schlamper and all these circumstances and reasons that we don't have much reason to accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56956	Thank you, Your Honor. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker. Here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56957	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow Drinker doesn't make sense to you if one year someone's been controlling and collecting all the data that's the most normal thing to do is make a report for that same period. It can't be someone who wasn't in the matter who wasn't following it to get the geniuses most in the world to make a report that will adequately match the real apartment. The more the debate on AZTN's 2011 work report, the more we warned about the changes that will take place in 2013, a brand-new AZTN function and, among other things, the use of these pre-accession funds used for structural reforms, and the moment European funds are used, then these funds will go to improve the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. And so it was the most normal thing to submit this report to AZTN whether or not it was said in law. The point is that the Ministry of Finance, which normably makes the laws and proposes laws regarding these topics and support, and it was all logical to follow what was happening in 2013 and to be the holder of the 2013 report. As you can see, the Ministry of Finance could have made a 2012 report, however, the Ministry of Finance was not in 2012 except for that fiscal and budgetary part at all. And it doesn't make any sense, and that's why I'm really surprised to say it in an individual debate, that now the law is being proposed at the Ministry of Finance, which will be mildly said to be totally past because we'll see it at the end of this year, and the budget rebalance and the new budget for 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56958	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56959	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, a colleague obviously forgot to put that on. So since the law originally exists that for 2013 they left the Agency's competence to do this report but they forgot in 2012, it means that it is now which is why whether it was done on purpose or by mistake it is now not important at this point but essentially speaks about how the entire administration that was dealing with this topic works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56960	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56961	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Labour Labour Party will support these amendments to the State Aid Act because it is necessary for this House to be given this report for the reason that a mistake occurred in the bill itself and that law when we passed in the 5th month that went through an emergency procedure was simply omitted in 2012 who will submit the support report to this Parliament. Clearly, when we talk about the urgency of the process of amending the law, then we have certain failures. That is why our warning always is that where there is no need for urgent laws to go into two readings, there is always a time between the first and second reading where certain shortcomings and corrections can be made. In practice, though, many laws go according to the urgent procedure, and then clearly there are certain failures of certain illogicalities that we then correct. This is related to Article 17(3), but that part of the necessity to AZTN and to submit a State aid report is set out in Article 17. But here I would like to point out another problem that is present in the very adoption of the law, which is one in the same article in paragraph 3.It is said that the guidelines of the State aid policy for the period 2014 and 2016 the Government of the Republic of Croatia will bring by the end of September 2013 on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. And the government has brought these guidelines not to the 9th month but to the 24th 10th, so the Government, which is also a proposer of a certain law and certain solutions, does not adhere to what it has set out in the law itself, but for a month, two months, certain obligations that are in the Government to make part of the work can be extended, and that is in some way a failure to comply with the legal provisions. And on the other hand, I fully agree with my colleague, Popijac, because as a member of the Committee on the Economy, it is inappropriate that the debate on the resolution and appointment of the president and president of AZTN was concluded yesterday, and that the Chairman of the Committee on Economy is calling the Committee on 20th, the next week and the agenda points should be discussed, which means that the part is not coordinated and that we are practically made up of these mistakes, and only a certain part of the problem of functioning is made of such mistakes. Well, even when we talk about this very important topic, which is the issue of support, and that's what we talked about yesterday when we talk about the unemployed where practically incentives and support have been fired and gone so far, and we have 348 thousand unemployed at the Employment Office. We see new information that 400 workers are wanted in Canada where young people can go to work. You can't find work here in Croatia. And when we talk about incentives that should, in some ways, create certain conditions on the market and create healthier competition and raise a particular issue of economy and employment, this is practically not happening. But here is the end, since this is just a technical part of correcting certain gaps in the law itself, Croatian Labourists will support it, but they point to that part of the problem that we still need to take more seriously when we propose certain laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56962	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56963	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I'll leave from the end. You said 400 people were looking for a job in Canada that was actually offered by the state of the Republic of Canada. I must also point out and add, in fact, that the worrying news from the Croatian medical chamber is that 200 of our doctors have also requested to go to work abroad. But what I wanted to warn you at the beginning of your speech, so that it is about this non-report or not reporting for 2012 is actually about non-compliance, failure or ignorance, it is under number 1 so here we have missed out on such an important topic as the state support and the 2012 report, and we know that there has always been a very lively and numerous debate here in the Croatian Parliament because we have also had information on the titles of users of these support, and then we have learned a lot from this report. Or I wouldn't want to prejudge the matter if it were intentional, which would be even worse if it were part of the intention of this ministry or government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56964	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56965	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Grubisic, you're absolutely right and the disastrous situation is. Young people, and what you said and the doctors are leaving Croatia, which is not good. It will only have consequences for a few years in Croatia because we will not have young people, and we will not have professional people who will flee from our country, go somewhere else and we will find it harder to get out of the crisis. As countries around us slowly come out of crisis situations, we're sinking deeper and deeper. But what you were saying and what you pointed out was perfectly right, which is the question that the adoption, the report that was to be passed in this House, was something that was fixed in the law, but the legislator of the law even when we were discussing this law, wanted to avoid the Parliament and in a way that only the report at the government's support session was submitted, and we MPs, and ultimately this government, which is also responsible to the Parliament, would have no information about it. But it's a good thing there's been a commitment in the law, but here's the kind of technical problem that's being corrected right now, and I hope we get that report as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56966	Thank you, Your Honor. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. It's the Honorable Agent Ivan Shuker's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56967	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'm really interested in the fact that by chance some ministry did what AZTN did that would be a political conflict in this assembly today. Why, because at the head of the ministries are usually people who have made one policy or another... it doesn't matter at all, but it's important that some set-up that follows the work of that is exclusively related to some kind of political assessment. This is about an independent institution and look, no one in this assembly matters that they didn't do what they just had to do. They had to do it. No one in this country could have made that report except AZTN. Why? Well, because they were in charge for that year to control, record and collect, and the logical thing is to make a report. And even if it had not been incorporated into the law it is the most logical thing because AZTN has no legal follower, they do not cease to exist but simply Croatia has done a great job, finished negotiations, entered the European Union and by the directives of the European Union AZTN gets a completely different role, just as the Ministry of Finance in this part gets some different... And if we're talking about amending this law, then we need to talk about it in that context. Because I repeat, regardless of whether it was made by the ministry during HDZ or the ministry now during the Kukuriku coalition, the stories would be exactly the same because the easiest thing to do is to attack politically. However, colleagues and colleagues look, today is half the 11th month, and according to information, today there will be budget rebalances and budgets for 2014 and we do not have one analysis of the agency that should have monitored the legality of the payment of incentives, all incentives from the state budget except agriculture because agriculture is not in the Agency's management of competition protection. We don't have a report on how the support funds were used in 2012. And I'm saying today, actually today, the government is going to propose a budget rebalancing that will take all the bad things that happened in the first 10 months and try to raise the money that was spent more in the first 10 months. Among other things, you will see colleagues and colleagues, and in the end we have talked about how much support in key ministries, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Economy has been neutral for the first six months. And the logical thing is that, let's say, there was a report by AZTN in 7 or 9 months, that we discussed it in this House of Commons logically, so that the MPs would refer to whether it was appropriate for the support in the economy to be paid at 11 or 12 months. Then that support is no longer for the current year, but it is for the next financial year. But what really surprises me is that even the Government's Office of Law did not react when this law was proposed. Therefore, the Government's Office of Law simply had to see or by default a report submitted by the Competition Protection Agency or simply had to indicate or warn that someone else had to be empowered to do so. No, this happens to us, and now we're gonna do what we're gonna do, eat the donkey wolf. And those funds have been spent anyway. We'll deal with some other problems and that report doesn't make any sense anymore. And when we add to that the way we discussed yesterday we appointed new members of the Competition Protection Agency, then it all leads to this High House simply being a flow water heater for certain legal problems. Because even when you're warned about things, then you just don't want to accept it. Why? So what are they talking about? They could have done it while they were in power. But I repeat, during the debate on the 2011 AZTN report in this High House, on behalf of the HDZ Club, it was warned that in 2013, and a revolutionary change in the work of AZTN can be said. Finally, the Ministry of Finance receives what is the basis of the Fiscal Responsibility Act as defined in the principle that each budgetary user must report on the use of funds. And the logical thing is that in some future times in the report on the implementation of the budget must be one specific item on adequate use of both support in the economy and support in agriculture, as well as some social benefits that must finally be based on the property situation. Because look, the Competition Protection Agency, regardless of what it is not in the business, simply had to warn it in the previous periods. Why? Well, because it's a lot of resources coming from the state budget. Well, after all, look at the last 10, 12 years and the warnings of some certain international financial institutions have some things that are repeated year after year. But I'm telling you, it doesn't matter to us how, no council members are appointed to any term of office. Because look, the logical thing would be if we became a member of the EU this year, if virtually three members of the Council change that they get an entirely new overall mandate and that the Competition Protection Agency is appointed to a completely new mandate as long as it lasts. Whether it's four or five years doesn't matter at all. And this is how we do a hybrid combination that's gonna break in our heads. Because look, the Competition Protection Agency practically comes directly under the jurisdiction of Brussels and they will work on their instructions and will work for them a certain job. Why? Well, because Brussels is very important, given the use of EU funds to use certain funds in Croatia and that there is no overlapping and duplication. And let's not fool ourselves that this work and that control is not very important. On the one hand, the Ministry of Finance will send the information and the report on how the funds are used in the report sent to EUROSTAT. On the other hand, AZTN will control the basis of EU rules and directives on how EU funds are used and that there is no overlap. So, all of this was supposed to be here at the High House, it was supposed to be discussed and the head man, actually the head of the Agency who was or the new head of man and since he wasn't appointed, so she would have submitted a report to a representative in this House who was less concerned with this topic simply should have been introduced to all of this. So this report is the conclusion of one mode of work and the beginning of one completely different way of working, one new way of using funds. And since the Competition Protection Agency has had the support of this High House all these years regardless of what political option was in power for its independent work, the logical thing that the 2012 report should have been one whole taste of its work, the finding of what was happening and the same warning that tomorrow would be for the simple reason that representatives in the Croatian Parliament who are not the subject of life dealing with but that they get personal information that ultimately on the ground they can get to know certain entrepreneurs tomorrow, to warn how support from the state budget can come from, and also to obtain EU funds. So that's what the 2012 report should contain. That's why I personally believe that the Ministry of Finance simply has nothing to do and there's nothing to interfere with anyone's business where he didn't participate, nor onion ate, nor onion smelled, but simply someone must finish his job before the resolution. And I'm in favour of us not giving a solution to the head man of AZTN until he submits a report for 2012. Perhaps it was also the reason why this was not discussed on the Legislative Committee, why it was not discussed at the home Committee on Economy, but last night at the plenary session we talked about it for 8 hours because it was precisely the reason why we wanted to say as a club on the Committee on Legislatives that we think that someone simply has to make a full report on their work and has to be represented, I repeat very little, I do not want to offend anyone here, very few colleagues and colleagues dealing with this area. However, in one common folk language, all MPs were to be referred to what has been going on since 1.07 and what has happened before, which is not going to be tomorrow, which opens up new opportunities for us tomorrow, and at the end of the day, which is the new tasks of the Ministry of Finance so that tomorrow, when the Ministry of Finance has submitted certain reports, we can say so to grab them by the throat why they did something or didn't do it. Both colleagues and colleagues are the reason why I cannot personally support this amendment of the law because I simply believe that the Ministry of Finance has been caught in a network where it doesn't belong at all. Even though AZTN was independent, he had to submit a 2012 report to this High House for the simple reason they gave an assessment of legal and illegal support in 2012, they were not provided by the Ministry of Finance. And I therefore propose colleagues and colleagues until this report is discussed not to give a solution to the members of the Competition Protection Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56968	Thank you very much. We have replicas. The first replica and respected representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56969	Thank you very much. Comrade Shucker, you have struck with your debate the essence of the amendments to these amendments and the addition of this law. However, in my replica, I would like to complete this exhibition of yours and, in some ways, to warn us that we have been served by the current government for two years when we talk about all agencies and this Competition Protection Agency. As a mantra repeats three, let's say a few definitions. The first is with less support we've done more work and we're more successful than the former governments. The second mantra agencies are independent bodies. And the third thing I want to add is that it's repeated these days in the media that Mrs. Olga Spevec has been replaced because her mandate has expired. So I want to explain. As for this story that with less support we did more show all the data quite differently. In agriculture and livestock, tens of thousands of small family economies have disappeared, these people today are on the burden of the state on the stock market, because they couldn't create even that zero without support to at least get some of the funds to live peacefully. As regards support for entrepreneurship, 60 thousand newly unemployed in the Stock Exchange and small and medium-sized enterprises, especially large and shipbuilding. As regards the support to public undertakings in HH, it is clear how much damage this disrupted aid ratio in this society has done. The HH today is in total decay. As regards the independence of the body, the fact is that, through certain legal changes, all agencies have been placed under government control and are mainly making all policy-making decisions. And as for this part about Olga Spevec, I think after 10 years, after that lady somehow gave the biggest pain of independence to that agency and did her job, we ended up negotiating, I think now that her job was going to become easier, I don't see too many possibilities in that she didn't want to or that she was fed up anymore, I think it's that she didn't want to in some way feeling that the inability of that agency to continue to work and make decisions the way that policy will.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56970	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56971	Yes, fellow Boric, you said less support and more work. And then you add the mantra one they were stealing, we're doing it honestly, etc. And you get to cover your troubles. However, what I am interested in is that, in some times, the tax write-off and, in some ways, the granting of guarantees was state aid because only some of them could have received it, I am curious to know what the State Agency's relationship with these strong tax write-offs in pre-departure settlements is because it is suddenly no longer supporting. It's all of a sudden like this in the spirit of the world. One needs to pay taxes, and the other doesn't pay taxes. And now look, we're doing exactly the same job, and I'm taking a weighty job, I'm paying taxes and everything, I'm kind of living, and somebody else is spending on yachts, on vacations on this thing, and he doesn't pay taxes, and then after five or six years, somebody comes in and writes off his taxes, and now somebody's gonna say that we're the two equal on the market. We didn't. Therefore, AZTN must react there. Same story with HH. We're listening here in this High House of Ministers that HZ no longer gets support, that structural reforms have been carried out, that HZ is a little cost, but HZ has received 2.6 billion guarantees that they can get a loan because no one is alive to them, so you remember that for the purchase of a car or with a state guarantee no one wanted to give credit because they knew it would come to the state for payment and the question is whether it was legal or illegal support, illegal support. Now, we're not going to let the budget show that it's a cost and that's it, but we're going to give guarantees, so we're not going to show it through the deficit for three years, so when three years in a row this guarantee is charged, then someone else is going to have to show it as a government budget deficit tomorrow and we're going to say that we've done fiscal consolidation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56972	Thank you very much. Honored representative Stjepan Milinkovic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56973	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, in your debate, you've highlighted the necessity of delivering the report, and in particular in the area of agriculture, I think where in some ways these farmers want to be stigmatized and made like those who receive unwarranted support. But, come and see, I witnessed in everyday life that what while the paying agency was arguing that no support had ever come, they were cut off of course how much they cut, they were coming, so they didn't know what to do. And exactly what you said was that until today, no farmer has received an official notice of the level of support for 2012, and according to the law, this was to be done by the end of May of this year. So, five full months have elapsed until the ministry has had to carry out its legal obligation. And these days, farmers are also wondering if they will get their home addresses on the support decisions for the 2013 payment year. And you know why? That they do not live in error, uncertainty, that they can plan production, that they are not in debt without cover, that they do not make production at the expense of their uncovered debts, etc. And, of course, to avoid what is happening is already standard for farmers to fail, which we unfortunately witness every day. So it is certainly necessary for these reports to be very clear and transparent and to be seen and that farmers can plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56974	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56975	Thank you very much. Col. Milinkovic, look, maybe this report shouldn't be done by AZTN and by law it doesn't need it because agricultural support is excluded from it, neither should the Ministry of Finance, but it would be a logical thing if there is so much opposition in the public, there is a conflict between what the former government says and what the current minister says. Then it would be fairest and most logical to draw up a report on the use of agricultural support for the Croatian peasant to see how much he has no right, what remains to be paid, which he has not been paid because in the end of the year since 1.7.2013, the possibility of using hundreds of millions of euros is opened for Croatian peasants. But if no one has taught them and taught them how to work elementally to get support, their ability to compete tomorrow for EU funds from the funds is very low. And therefore, with the provisions of this law, I think that either in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget or somewhere, the Ministry of Agriculture should also be obliged to finally submit a report on the use of agricultural aid. Because look, the figures are exact about them can't be lied to, 2 and 2 are always 4 for honest people and for the dishonest can be 3 and 5 depending on how they need it at any point.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56976	Thank you very much. 3rd Replic and Honored Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56977	Thank you very much. You know, fellow Shuker, that in previous discussions when a report on state aid was submitted during your government, I was also aware of those whose owners were to say a brief and clear political likeness in the debate and support. This notifying or not reporting opens exactly and doubts in this direction, so now we have another political set but there are no reports. So these discreet doubts, and even the direct doubts you've referred to, might come to mind that it's not snowing to cover the hill. The second thing I wanted to point out to you is that under the State aid law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia should adopt guidelines by the end of September 2013 for the period 2014-2016. But here are the guidelines of the government, which have been delivered on 24 October, so with a considerable delay, this was the deadline by the end of September, and this is beyond all deadlines for the period from 2014-2016. So I don't know how to characterize it, whether it's sloppyness, negligence, ignorance or incompetence, but I think it's all the same to use any word in connection with all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56978	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56979	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Grubisic therefore began his debate I did thank God this report should not have been submitted by the ministry because it would have been seasoned with politics. And these are things that matter to Croatian entrepreneurs and there is no place for politics. And it may be that once upon a time and now there have been certain support given on the political line of some similarity but that is why an independent agency was set up to control it and that should have said it in its report because no one has the right to do so. But that's why certain institutions in this country have been doing some work. But watch the easiest thing tomorrow is to invite some politician, slap him on the cover and he's guilty of everything because he's responsible he doesn't matter what. And I repeat, that's why it's not clear to me that the ministry colleagues have gotten caught up in something where they don't belong. My colleagues don't have to file this report because they don't have the information for it. They have data on the implementation of the budget from the Treasury that they could do anyway but they have no data in the way AZTN collected them, and that is why the logical thing, regardless of the fact that AZTN as such has ceased to exist and his obligation to do some work has ceased to be a logical thing to do. Well you will see and many changes have followed in this financial and economic part as regards the new moment of Croatia's entry into the EU, but reports for the period that was under the old law will be done and controlled under the old law. You can't say that the law that came into force, let's say in the 1.10th year that it refers to the period 2012. And that's why colleagues and colleagues I don't think that this change has any need, because if someone was in charge of something and he still exists, he's just been changed in part of his work, and I think he needs to substantiate the report, not someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56980	Thank you. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56981	Dear colleague Shuker, I will support your debate and some replicas since the President of the Parliament is more tolerated than the Vice President, so he'll probably allow it. It was said before about mantras how independent the agencies are, however, at the time a colleague used one mantra that was transferred by the authorities, which is that AZTN is independent. AZTN was not independent primarily of large capital, it protected large capital all the time and should not shed tear for AZTN leaders first of all. Because when we talk about independence, we always talk about some kind of political independence. And when we talk about HRT, we always think politicians are putting a lot of pressure on them. They're not doing it. They're doing it. They're doing it. And what you fellow Shucker were saying is true. It would be logical that there is no analysis that we are in a surplus like China and that we swim in money, but the countries that are in the surplus are doing well and are in surplus because they control every lip to express themselves to our denominations means our money. So we're not in control, so we don't know what the support was spent on and the country is cramping in debt. So what kind of logic is that? And nobody gives a shit about that, nobody cares. It doesn't matter to anyone where the money ended, how it was supported, that those support simply went into smoke, to whom they were given, why they were given. So one complete analysis that has been made, but no analysis has been made and we in the Assembly are actually what can we discuss? I agree with you, there is no need to give a solution before we hear what happened over the past period. It's only when we hear that, that's when we can discuss the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56982	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56983	Look, colleague Vuksic, so when AZTN was founded, and thank God it was founded in the government before HDZ, so we can't say that HDZ founded it, after all, Mrs Spevec, who I think is correct and fair, did her job here in public, she just had to protect those who are weaker than the ones who are more powerful, to set up an even match if someone is offering a product or service that can exist on the market, that she has the same rights, that this powermaker can't trample it out. But look, we're often involved in political reckonings here, that one of the ministers who came here now says they used to be like this, sharing money like this, so now there's one question going on. We've been adopting this high-ranking AZTN report for years. You don't have that kind of story in the AZTN report. Therefore, given that the AZTN report has passed through the government and the 2011 report adopted by this Government, adopted in this House of Commons... and if there were no such remarks in that report then no current minister has morally, politically, human right to claim what he claims. Because if that's true then we should give a negative opinion on the 2011 AZTN report, and the government should simply be manifested about all these insubordinations of the former government and then we should be able to make the former ministers who said so, not so, given that the government gave a positive opinion on the AZTN report, so also the resolution ministers, they simply have no longer the right to justify their unhappiness and their incompetence, to call on someone to do something one way or another. So that is why it should be pointed out that AZTN has a very thin function, that it is not politically dependent, that simply no matter who is in power should be warned if certain money is spent incorrectly. And then all of us, no matter what position we are in, whether in the executive, legislative power, if we raise our hand for such a report, then we feel it was okay and we have no right to spit on it for political reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56984	And thank you very much. We have exhausted the replicas and answers to the replica and the list of people reported for discussion on this subject. So the debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the terms of this law are met. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State aid, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 498. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. It's only one amendment, that's it. I would like the representative of the proposed Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec to be shown on Amendment 1 to Articles 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56986	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56987	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes, 24 votes against and 3 votes are abstentions to the law amending and supplementing the Law on State aid in the text, as proposed by the proposing, together with the amendment adopted. And now we're going to 12. Final proposal of the Leasing Act, second reading, CZ No. 459 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of this law, Articles 194 to 202 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Finance, respected Boris Lalovac. Here you go, dear Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56989	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You are facing the Final Proposal for a Law on Leasing, which is adopted due to the further regulation of the business of leasing society in new conditions, and the memberships of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union and for the improvement of existing solutions, for the opening of borders, for the accession of the European Union, the rules of conduct for the treatment of companies registered in the Republic of Croatia and for companies registered in other Member States which may potentially operate on the territory of the Republic of Croatia directly or through the branch and domestic and foreign companies must obtain authorisation for the operation by HANFA and comply with the provisions of this Act. Furthermore, additional requirements have been imposed for Leasing companies with regard to the establishment of a risk management system, so they must have a strategy, policies and risk management measures, the establishment of internal audits and internal controls. In addition, the provisions of the Law on the Control of Leasing Companies by HANFA have been further developed in a way that is uniform to supervisory rules for other financial market entities. The supervision is divided into direct and indirect which has not been the case so far, and the measures that HANFA may impose are broader and include from the issuing of recommendations and notices to the Management of Leasing Society until the withdrawal of work authorisation for all activities or partly for activity. Mandatory cooperation between HANFA and other supervisors from the Republic of Croatia, Member States and third countries is also prescribed in the case of a concluded agreement. For leasing companies it is important with this law is an extended subject of their business so that it is possible to rent an object returned... means objects that have been returned from leasing work which according to the applicable law was not possible, as well as to finance not only the existing but also future objects of leasing so on. project financing. It is also possible that the suppliers of leasing are also natural persons, which has so far been hampered by the provisions of the applicable law. These are the meanings of those changes that were actually in the first reading. In many ways, it actually facilitates a certain business, given that a certain leasing industry has also seen a strong decline in their assets since 2009. They have a lot of leasing facilities that have returned to them, so they have created a large supply and in that part it is easier for them to manage a certain part of the stock more easily, that they can return it back to the market so that they certainly do business leasing companies follow let's say strong and economic activity or when you have larger investments in material assets and stronger... they grow more, and they also fall much faster as when they are actually economic downturn and more significant. Here in these changes will actually enable them to manage their supplies more easily in a certain part, so that they can be placed on the market. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56990	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56991	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, I would like to ask you to clarify one thing, given that political accounts often use statements that simply don't stand, and maybe it was good when we passed a new law on teaching, as to how interesting it is in Croatia when it's said to buy a car, that you took a car to Leasing. What does this mean for lying, and what does it mean when you buy it, and what is the cost that is shown in the budget? 'Cause look, the Prime Minister here in the current morning said no, we didn't buy the car, we took the car to Leasing. My colleagues and colleagues, when you buy a car then the cost goes to interest loans if you've raised it, if you're not going to spend the depreciation you're calculating at the rate you're setting yourself. And when you take the car to Leasing then the cost of leasing goes to business. And to the dear God, and especially to the taxpayers, it doesn't matter what it's called. You have to pay so much and so much a month. And it would be a more logical thing to say that something is more economically meaningful and quality given some economic assessment because it's probably someone doing it because it's probably why it's done, not go with, in political matters with something that's simply not true. Because that's why it was an opportunity, Mr. Deputy, to explain in your opening part in principle what it was like to do. And I would really ask you because if I'm going to say it, then you'll say look at this opposition bat. It would be good for you as Deputy Minister to say that for the simple reason that when someone says that they bought something at Leasing to know that it's the same cost that can be depending on how you use this asset that was purchased and economically and financially unfavourable than that you bought from your own funds or that you took out a loan. But I'm simply saying it's clear that the Prime Minister didn't tell the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56992	Dear Representative, we have declared lifelong learning in Croatia. Replication response, Deputy Minister of Honor Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56993	Thank you. When you've already asked a question about leasing, so there's a market, so let's say it from ten years to the same way as whether the government actually works, does every trading company leasing or car Leasing equipment. You distinguish between two types of leasing, so financial leasing the same as with certain companies is actually very similar to the loan. And actually when you're getting through a financial lease, you're actually buying this particular asset, you're writing it down in your books as an asset, you're amortizing it in your books as an asset, and it's actually a single asset very much like a bank loan. With the operational leasing that's often here... like it's a rental or actually a rental, you also use that asset, you don't have it in your books. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Same as we're talking about corporations. Let's say in corporations he registers off-balance. You have a cost, a certain cost of rent. In this cost of rent, in fact, in operational Leasing, the cost of maintenance can often be included and the whole package can be included. But in operational leasing it is very important that these vehicles are returned to suppliers after three years and are actually being obtained, so you don't own it, so don't use it as property but the suppliers are returning it... Why are those areas especially for large vehicles? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know, for example, in the Republic of Croatia that all car rentals and car houses purchase vehicles for operational Leasing, because they use a certain part of the operating Leasing period, and they really need to know after two or three years new, they renovate the fleet. So it's important to say for a credit debt, but there's a rental cost within the same as if you were, very similar to that you took a car rental.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56994	So there's nothing free that we've concluded. All right, all right, all right. Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament want to take the report, participate? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community club is next in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56995	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear deputy with associate, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. This bill of law, the final law on second reading. Just a few remarks to improve this bill. In fact, the impression is that some technical solutions have been made fairly superficially in this bill, so I would like to try to propose a few technical changes that, which should be considered which will certainly improve the final draft of the law, so let's move forward. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Agency shall, within 2 days of the date of receipt of the complete request. In this proposal for a final draft of the Leasing Act, it is as if some new deadlines are not very everyday in other laws, so to speak. It's usually always been, if the shortest time is 3 days or 8 days is now 2 days. A paragraph 2. The Agency shall carry out the procedure within 56 days of the date of receipt of a complete request for the acquisition of a qualified share. I haven't had a chance to read anywhere that someone decided within 56 days. Why exactly 56 days when it's usually 60 days, 30 days, 45 days, so I'd beg you, I don't know. Well-meaningly, I don't know why it fell to someone for 56 days. If anything else makes it more awkward for someone to follow the expiry date on that number, so if the Government were alone, then we'll agree we'll submit amendments to these proposals that I'm talking about. The Agency will also inform the applicant again within 2 days of the date of adoption and, if the request is not decided, it will be considered that it has agreed to acquire a qualifying share. This is a bit of a slippery area. The Agency shall make very important solutions to acquire a qualified share, which means that if it does not adopt a solution it will be considered to have issued a solution. How can someone gain a qualified share without a solution? If the Agency doesn't respect the deadline, then it has to bear sanctions. But it can't happen that the Agency doesn't respect the deadline, it doesn't decide, and as a result, the result is as if it's decided. And I don't think that's a good solution that we should definitely, you know, open up the space to sometimes and deliberately shut up or not to hold a session within that time limit. But I think that the law should define the Agency's obligations more clearly, and not only if it has been defied that it is considered to be resolved because the Agency's role as a regulatory body in the financial market is too important, which is not always in balance and automatically market relations, but even sometimes inside it becomes unstable, and there is only a need for strong intervention of the regulatory body. Also when the company bodies, Article 32, speak with the general assembly, management and supervisory board, or the board of directors. If the law says or should never be in the law, or clearly specified, and if administrative and supervisory matters are provided for, then it must be known in which cases there is surveillance and in which cases the Management Board is in. Article 33 of the Leasing Society administration shall have at least 2 members. The most unfortunate solution is two members of the board. That is why I know compliance with the EU acquis but they do not limit it strictly. Therefore, you might consider an odd number would be more effective when it comes to the agency. Article 34 shall refer to the conditions for a member of the management of the Leasing Society. So who can be in the management of leasing society? There are too many concepts here that are immeasurable and undefined and that should be a little clearer to set the criteria. You know when someone in the résumé writes a study. Then you don't know if he's been studying for 20 years and is he even finished? But if a diploma or a high-level professional is required, or a certain qualification, then they must specify exactly which qualifications. In fact, here for a member of the board, it is prescribed that he has a good reputation. This is absolutely not supposed to be in the law, and I would ask that, because who is it that will assess someone's good reputation? We have witnessed how many of those who have enjoyed the best reputation have changed it suddenly. And in particular, I would never dare give authority or take power to judge anyone's good reputation or bad reputation, anyway. So this in the definition of the law should be avoided in any case. He says that he can be a member of the administration that is found to be justified on the basis of his behaviour so far, that he will be able to carry out his duties fairly and knowingly. So for someone to assess with certainty that he will honestly and knowingly, I think it should also be removed from the bill and made it easier and clearer to determine that if someone is not punished in 20 years and if there are no violations, then it is believed that maybe the last 10 years or 15 careers will also endure on the same path but not based on someone's assessment that he could reasonably conclude that someone will do the job fairly and knowingly. Therefore, there is no need for such undefined broad terms that do not define too much. The suggestion is, please, to move it. A member of the management or procuring company may not be a member of the management and supervisory board or of a procuring officer if any other teaching society, compulsory pension society, voluntary pension fund is. Here is not defined, we are an EU member, is it only in the area of the Republic of Croatia or someone can be a member of the pension society management in Austria, and a member of the management of the Leasing Society in Croatia. So it would be good to define and comply with the Credit Institutions Act that approximately the same criteria apply to members of both administrations and each other because they are financial institutions. In the decision-making process referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, when it comes to the consent to perform the functions of a member of the administration, paragraph 7 it is said that a member of the management of the Leasing Society will present a management programme for the period of office to which a member of the Management Board is appointed. It must also be more clearly defined when presented, within which time, coma, and not indefinitely. Article 40, which also refers to the conditions for the performance of the member of the supervisory board of Leasing Society. Paragraph 2 is said "the condition referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be considered to be particularly met if the person has a relevant experience." It is therefore considered that the conditions of the law are met in particular if the person has a relevant experience. What is the relevant experience? We think that we should define whether this experience over the years is a team and a team, in the interest of that and the fact that we might not in doubt eliminate someone who really has a rich experience and that someone assesses that they have a relevant experience even though they have no experience. We are witnessing several wrong personnel solutions at the highest state level precisely because of these vague criteria. I mentioned several times and the case of the latest in the European Commission, a top expert in one area is proposed for an expert in a field where it is not and therefore we have a problem because instead of proposing an auditor expert we have proposed an expert in another area. Therefore, these are assessments of perhaps relevant experience. It has to be defined. Article 4 of the Regulation will lay down the conditions to be met by members of the supervisory board of leasing companies. If Article 40 is published in the Official Journal The law defines the conditions to be laid down by a member of the Supervisory Board, how, then, will the Agency prescribe the conditions for a member of the Supervisory Board? It's the opposite. The Agency may not, by means of a regulation, prescribe the conditions for a member of the Supervisory Board of the Agency to have such a law to be defined and, in fact, to be defined, undefined. There are concepts of relevant experience and others, and then it will be more clearly defined by the regulation that the Agency itself says which members of the Supervisory Board itself may be. That's what the law needs to say, not the agency's rules. The Agency's rules of procedure can be a little clearer. In the case of a revision of the reporting society, paragraph 3 states "the same audit company may revise a maximum of 7 consecutive annual financial reports of Leasing companies". Again, the question arises where exactly 7 consecutive annual financial reports come from? Why 7 years even though 7 is a symbolic number? But we think that seven consecutive annual audit reports are too much for one audit house to oversee and audit the same agency. I think that many problems in society arise precisely from the long term and long-term mandates and more mandates allowed consecutively and it is not good for someone to spend 7 years as it is not good for someone to be in the same responsible position for 20 years, and no one chooses him, so it is not good for someone to revise the same house or the same agency for 7 years in a row. We think we'd get a clearer, better picture if we were to change the auditors more frequently that this is too much time to have one place out of the one corner of the auditor's report. When it comes to the linear consolidation of Article 75, the "agency can for the purposes of supervision" again we suggest that word or term be avoided, relevant and so undefined. What does that mean? So he doesn't have to. Either he has to or he doesn't have to. The law must be determined, the law must be clear. The interpretation of the law in many possible ways must not be allowed; it must be defined more clearly. Also a little bit about the jurisdiction of the Leasing Society Supervisory Agency. It is said that the Agency conducts supervision of Leasing companies in accordance with the Law on the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency, this law prescribed and adopted under this Act and other laws and regulations adopted under this Act. We think it's a bit broad on the basis of which the law can be supervised. So based on all the laws that come out of some other law. In paragraph 4 of Article 93, "when the Agency determines the existence of reasonable doubt in the criminal offence or offence committed, it shall submit an appropriate application to the competent authority". The regulatory body shall establish and act more clearly. So here, too, it might take a little clearer sometimes to determine the existence of reasonable doubt. Agency issues and solutions, the agency determines whether someone broke the law or not. You can see that clearly in solutions. And where a violation of the law has been found, that solution should be forwarded to the State Attorney's Office or to the competent authority. In the end, Article 133 shall apply. "The solution brought by the appeal agency in the administrative matters of its jurisdiction is not allowed, but the disgruntled party can appeal to an administrative dispute before an important Administrative Court." Sometimes it's good that the appeal isn't allowed, but sometimes it's good to think about how much one solution the agency has with it, so it would be good to think about it. And just one more sentence when it comes to lying and cars, and I asked if anyone had a private car on the Leasing, I haven't heard anyone yet because it's not worth it. The lying to buy cars is much more expensive than buying in cash except for legal persons who can... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56996	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. When it comes to sentences, I am as honest as I am with the law. Now we're going to the replicas. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56997	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. counterpart Maric, this law should have simply been done because of a new condition with Croatia becoming an EU member, but there is one thing that is imposed and we also spoke on the Committee on Finance, and these are conditions for members of the administration where certain things overlap and many conditions are even stricter than for the appointment of a member of the administration of a single insurance house or one bank. And colleagues and colleagues need to know that leasing societies are basically either based on large banks or on insurance houses, simply the financial industry felt a new model and way of product i.e. at some point. They're selling money, and that's why they came up with what they are. And last week, we had a very heated debate here about the Consumer Credit Act. You see, it's very interesting and leasing is practically connected to the currency clause everywhere and that we as parliamentarians can't shut up because all credits regardless of whether they're operational or financial are tied to the currency clause. Both colleagues and colleagues, many Croats were lucky to have bought cars at Leasing in 2005, 2006, 2007, which was usually leaching for 4 or 5 years, so the leasing expired before the Swiss savage. But as many citizens died so many entrepreneurs died who had loans in Swiss, then somehow to get out of it they were giving these properties to leasing practically, bought out of them, they solved this financial problem, and they remained the war loan they paid through leasing and their fate was very uncertain. Well, when we take care of one, then we have to consider everything. When we talk about the currency clause, when we're talking about being a highly euro-based country, when we talk about the kuna being very stable, when we talk about tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, I'm cartooning, we should become members of the euro area then we should also mention the currency clause when we talk about the Leasing Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56998	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u56999	Thank you very much, fellow Shucker. Of course, conditions should be harmonised for management members in all financial institutions, especially since all financial institutions and even insurance companies are mostly bank-based. Banks have since stopped doing their banking work in a classic way and started offering new products under quotes to their clients and then problems began. New product, new problem. But also the bank-restricted savings, and leasing against banks and insurance companies leaning against banks. This actually narrows down and prevents competition sometimes because if someone raises a loan in a bank, and the bank conditiones them to provide insurance companies owned by that bank, then they are already additional difficulties and additional costs, and this is very often the case. Therefore, in view of the sensitivity of the financial system and the impact on the overall economic or stability or instability or on progress or the prevention of progress, it is necessary to harmonise the criteria, it is also necessary to define the criteria more clearly so that it would not occur as it has occurred so far in the field of leasing operations to some and non-transparent actions. Unfortunately, I am afraid that other institutions are still not up to understanding and not at the level of understanding of the problem of the financial market, in particular leasing societies. And that's why very often reports have been rejected because of the lack of understanding of the damage caused. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57000	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57001	Dear colleague Marić, you spoke of a number of technical details that should be in the law, which seem to act as technical details, but I will look back on one of your findings which seems to me to be well-detected, which is that a member of the management of the Leasing Society must have a good reputation. Remember how much our economists actually had this good reputation, remember how many of our businessmen with the greatest reputation, with the trust of exceptional and society, and especially political elites, so let's say one of them had 180 companies, so when he got the award of his fellow businessmen and ended up where, beyond the lock. Many who were rewarded when he won the prize then said he would now be arrested. That's you, not everyone, not generalizing. Therefore, what does the reputation in Croatia mean? We've mixed up the concepts of values and criteria. It is, therefore, hypocritical to even talk about these categories of laws in particular because it is immeasurable, especially in a society where the pillars of society are unreputable, and we call them dignitaries. Why? Because they control the media and they're on the cover today. We know that we have some dignitaries in some sports that have terrorised 15 years of Croatian society, and they are still dignitaries and terrorise us every day. Why, because they have money. We're the only ones with a reputation for money.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57002	Thank you very much. No, no, we kept the qualities of virtue, don't say that. Replica response, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57003	Thank you very much. Here's what the president said, on this trail, although the hardest part of today, especially in Croatia, I will be a good and honest man most of them are still honest and good, and that is the great majority. However, the media is easily and quickly spreading the covered truth. The media has made many non - esteemed dignitaries. The media even reported that someone committed the murder said but otherwise the prominent committed the murder, not to mention the interest specifically now. But we'll remember various gold needles, various gold kunas, year manager, communicator of the year, the best speeches of the year, and then the backdrop of everything shows up. That is why it is necessary to avoid such indeterminate because no one has the right to afford, to assess whether someone has a good reputation or not, but because of these technical details that need to be changed, we have remained abstentions, but we can also fire this restraint if it is dressed technically this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57004	Thank you, too. The SDP club of Croatia is next in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Nadica Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57005	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy deputy minister with colleague, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. My predecessor, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, made a series of remarks on the deadlines in this law and on how the law defines the necessary characteristics of a member of the administration, while stressing both reputation and conduct. My opinion is that, in fact, one of the most important aspects of these traits is the consequence of such a literal translation of European directives and interpretations into this law. So, the directive that stems from good European practice, which unfortunately is not yet the case with us, or we have not yet reached that level of behaviour. So it's gonna be a long time for us to get the job done on the line, on the business word, on the reputation of it. In fact, even right now, the contract is not a guarantee that the work will be done correctly or in the way it should be according to business consciences. But let's go back to our legal proposal. So, according to government data in Croatia today, 25 leasing companies, the assets of these companies are worth more than 22 billion kuna, which accounts for more than 4% of the assets of the entire financial sector, and 16 and a half percent of the assets of the non-banking sector. Leasing companies in the Republic of Croatia achieved profits in last year, so in 2012 after taxing amounting to 143 million kuna, which is a respectable result in recent conditions. These are all data confirming the importance of leasing activities, and due to a number of changes that occurred after the adoption of the first and still applicable Law on Leasing in 2006, it was necessary to upgrade this legislative framework of the leasing market. Since it was necessary to change more than 60% of the articles of the old law, therefore the 2006 law has been decided not to go on amending and supplementing that law but to adopt one new, whole law whose final text we have here today in front of us in another reading. There are no significant changes in this final proposal compared to the first reading of the law. They were done in the meantime, so between the first and second readings, certain nomotechnical corrections, so I'm actually going to repeat just what's most important, the most important newspapers this law makes. Therefore, the most important changes to the 2006 law are related to the fact that the Republic of Croatia enters the EU. In this respect, it is certainly the biggest challenge to liberalise the opening of the leasing market. In fact, the new law will allow Leasing companies registered in other EU member states to operate and in Croatia either directly or through their branches. In addition, Croatian teaching companies will be given access to the market of other members of the Union and business under the same conditions as domicile societies. One of the key papers of the law is also giving you the opportunity to deal with the affairs of leasing and a natural person. So far, according to the still applicable 2006 law, leasing could be dealt with exclusively by companies. Under the new law, suppliers of Leasing items will also be able to be citizens. The important reason for the new law is that the long-term recession in Croatia has financially exhausted the economy. He said something about it in his discussion, but he also melted a significant part of the bank's profits. The risks of the banking sector are constantly increasing. Currently, banks cannot partially or fully charge as much as 10% of loans paid to citizens, and the financing of the economy is far more risky for them. Almost 27% of the rent, or nearly 30 billion kuna, is not charged. It's fortunate that our banking system is well capitalized, so these problems are still relatively well handled. Of course, the question is, how long will that be? In any case, the government's assessment is that the availability of bank loans will continue to be reduced to the economy, so in such a context it is rational to strengthen other financial instruments so that there is leasing industry becomes the most important alternative to bank lending. Leasing is interesting in that sense because it has some advantages over bank loans. First of all, there is no systemic risk in leasing activities. There is no need to protect dispersed private capital, such as in the insurance industry or in banks that collect deposits from both the economy and the population, and therefore work mostly with other people's money. What other news does the law bring? Leasing to companies is expanding the subject of business in a way that enables them to re-rent and rent objects returned from Leasing work which has not been possible so far. A typical example of such a situation is, for example, the early termination of the lease contract due to the inability of the recipient of the Leasing to pay off the Leasing facility. In addition, leasing enables companies to finance future facilities rather than only existing Leasing facilities, as the current law now provides. This means that Leasing companies can also finance real estate in construction. Of course, all the numbered expansions in the Leasing sector will result in an increase in the risk of the Leasing Company's business, which is why additional control procedures are being incorporated into the law. In this respect, more HANFA powers are conferred on the HANFAs than granting consent to the operation of the Leasing Society through supervision which the HANFA will act directly and indirectly to the measures to be imposed by HANFAs and the range from the issuing of the notice to the withdrawal of the labour authorisation has been established. Additional requirements for the establishment of a risk management system are also put in place before Leasing societies, so they will have to have a strategy, policy and risk management measures, and they will also have to establish internal audit and internal control. The minimum level of underlying capital is a million kuna which must be paid in money before setting up of course and which must not at any time be reduced during the business of leasing society. The law also edits the Register of Leasing Objects, Business Books and Classified Data. So, the law provides for more liberal access to confidential data, it's interesting, so the lying houses will be easier to access data related, for example, to cause damage to vehicles in car accidents and similar situations. Therefore, the main intensity of this legislative proposal is to strengthen the leasing industry and put its potential in the function of economic development, but at the same time further enhanced supervision of this system by the HANFA, which monitors the non-banking system to prevent any impact on the financial system. The Leasing Act will contribute to better regulation and increase the stability of that part of the financial market and these are the reasons why the SDP club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57006	Thank you, too. Let's go to the replicas. The first replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57007	Dear colleague Jelash, you said, in fact, you have concluded that the formulations spoken of by Mr Maric have been taken over from the legal gain of the EU. Now you see how different we are as a country, and you said the same thing when you said that there will be a lot of water in Croatia when we do our duties on our word because we do not execute them when we sign the contract. We very easily sign the contract both personally and as legal persons, so it is very easy to sign the contracts, and very difficult to stick to the letters of that contract or very difficult to stick to the given word. However, in order to avoid confusion and to show this economic crisis from the United States, and also in Europe, that many dignitaries and European and US have fallen into the crisis and it has been seen that many have been convicted and jailed for this precisely because of those and over-inflated balloons that have not been accidentally blown. However, the specificity of our society is, with them is the exception and with us is the rule. When I spoke earlier, I didn't talk about most of it because most of it doesn't work, I didn't talk about most of what honest people agree with, I'm talking about that business world that gets gold needles, silver needles, bicycles I don't know about gold or what they don't get, and later it turns out that it's actually a lot of things, not everything, done on suspicious business today. Therefore, we simply need to delete all these formulations that we have taken because they are not worth it to us because we are working on some other rules that are very bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57008	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57009	Based on what you've said, which I agree with to a large extent, I'd say there's still one specific definition of ability with us. So what does it mean to manage, or what does it mean to be capable of in the Croatian business? Very often our dignitaries, as you said, get a golden kuna, and in the next month or the next year, when it starts to pick up a little bit of his ability to come or to the top of an institution, he stays in it for 20 years or gets a huge private fortune, so then it is actually seen that this wealth is acquired in a criminal way. But I would not say that the definitions we take through European directives should be rejected. So, I'd like to say that these definitions should be followed. It's something we're trying to do. So, you don't have to stay in this one of ours, I'm going to harshly say "poo" but you need to strive to get out of it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57010	Thank you very much. A new replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57011	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelash, you said in your exhaustive debate on leasing that there are 25 today and that they are in some way independent of the operating conditions of the banking sector and that this capital is fresh capital. Which is not true. In fact, all these societies are based on the banking sector or the insurance sector. Therefore, capital from the bank is fertilized and according to the banking industries, so it's a good term to fertilize through leasing, and in favour of banks, right. It is very, very closely related as well as the Swiss franc and leasing and loans in the Swiss franc.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57012	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57013	In my debate, I really didn't say at any point that in leasing societies there was fresh capital, that it was just their capital. In fact, we all know that largely and largely leasing societies are based on large banks, i.e. banking systems. So there's no point in saying that it's autonomous capital, even if we know that very often the objects of leasing are given along with the currency clause.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57014	Thank you very much. Club of representatives of the HDSSB in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57015	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. This morning, at the time of the Croatian television transmission of this House, we are talking about leasing. And the seemingly debate seems uninteresting. I think our viewers throughout Croatia are also somewhat uninteresting. Many of them who watch the transfer from the Croatian Parliament do not know what it is. A lot of people who are older than me, and to say like me, they didn't even remember leasing for those former states, nor were they. My senior colleague, a pardoned economist, a Master of Economics colleague Bubalo, says that this subject is so somewhat boring and not very interesting to him, so here I am, letting me talk about this legal proposal that's on the table, so the Final Proposal of the Leasing Act. And what can I say as a doctor or a doctor at this age? And first I entered Google to spread what it means in English leasing and got a unique interpretation says lying. Lying, the phone book of lies. When I only used the verb too lease or how it's written then I got some other term, and it was to rent, rent, rent, lease, etc. So then we wonder when I heard that second term, I wonder if the farm land that went into lease or other visions actually in Leasing. So why don't we use leasing and renting leasing farm land? And we wonder if there are any Croatian translators of the word "leasing" to make it clear to everyone what it is. Or it's like that Bosnian word there's no Hodzic here, actually. Because when something was through financial or operational leasing to take, then you first have somehow better terms than if you take something on credit. At the end as we have here and a colleague who also bought a car in private so they overpaid it for almost a quarter of the amount compared to the bank's loan. When you sum up all the cost of leasing that gentleman, I know one, had by buying a car on leasing so with this financial leasing. What differs from the financial and operational leasing Mr. Lalovec tried to explain to us? So financially, we can end up buying the property, let's take the car, so that it can end up buying the car but all the risks and everything else lies with the one that ends it. Therefore, the operational lease does not have to take into account the overall value of the facility or car, and the Leasing provider bears the costs of depreciation and the car remains its own, not to switch to the buyer or the Leasing user. That's the only difference. And now that we're talking about banks, says Mrs. Jelash denied me, and we can read the phonogram, that they're all Leasing houses and there are 25, 2006 there were 57 of them. 57 Leasing companies in 2006 when it somehow appeared to us on a massive scale. Now there's 25 of them. They're all based on banks or insurance companies, it's actually one of the options offered by the banking industry. It is one product offered by the banking industry so that it can also be on residential savings, and we know that almost all housing savings are based on banks, and so are Leasing houses based on banks and insurance companies. In fact, it is also an artikle of the banking industry that offers what to citizens and what to legal persons. And here we heard from the president it seems to me that the government is on the current morning that the government is also buying 1742 vehicles to Leasing and that this is not a cost actually. So wait, what would a bank like its own product offer without any expense? Nothing, as soon as you get into the bank, you've got expenses, let alone buying cars on a Leasing trip. I don't know if iphon's or the smart phones of 8 grand bought by the government are also going to Leasing? I don't know. I don't know. Anyway, what does leasing apply to? It refers to personal cars, commercial vehicles, but above all, I am talking about the quantity of what is most common, and I start with personal cars, then commercial vehicles, machines, equipment, installations and only at the end of the property. So there's another product of the banking industry to buy real estate, it's not lying to which they're being bought. He is at least represented in the form of leasing therefore in this article called leasing. Based on the experiences of our citizens of the Republic of Croatia with the level of price and amount that are at the end of this or the settlement of Leasing is very few today natural persons entering the risk of buying or operating on leasing, very little, very few personal cars are already being sold. It was a monster for a time, it was a colourful lie sold by the banking industry and everyone took off to buy a car on the Leasing, uh, cheaper first year, paid less, so there's no big bumps, and then later when the costs come and everything else comes up then it's a lot more than buying a car on a bank loan, non-intentional. And we are now passing a law that someone interpreted as an attempt or aid to the economic development of Croatia, the Leasing Act, and secondly, strengthens the control of the business of leasing companies through the HANFA, through its higher powers, activities and everything else. Here's two conclusions from the SDP club. I welcome both conclusions, God forbid that's the case. And better control would agree, but also to help economic development of the Republic of Croatia faster, I don't mean in personal cars, but in this second part, so the purchase of machinery and equipment, the purchase of the facility, and perhaps even in real estate, something could be triggered. But again I'm saying, the profit of these daughters' banks, I'd say, for the past year was 2.5 billion kuna, and the prime minister said where lucky yesterday at the current afternoon that economic operators also had some kind of profit. That would be real luck, but they don't. And I believe that despite this control of HANFA, despite all the legal regulations that are being called here, the banking industry will also profit from, regardless of all the legal regulations that we bring and which are here in the final draft of the law on leasing. And what to say after all, after we've heard explanations from other clubs in connection with this law and what the HDSSB should say, whether it's going to vote for this bill or not. Well, maybe it's best to stay restrained, maybe it'd be good to see if the application of this law will produce exactly what the SDP club hopes, expects and advocates. So, with my attempt to explain what it is, and what it's like to translate or suggest, and what it means in translation, I have to conclude that the HDSB club will be kept in the context of the final proposal for the Leasing Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57016	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have replicas. Dear Representative Tomislav Zhagar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57017	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's my colleague Grubisic, just two things about your exposure that I find interesting. The first is when you talk about control, it's certainly every system actually, in every system is the most important control and many of the troubles that bring it and we follow it in the media, especially this last affair related to the disappearance of 32 million kunas, certainly it wouldn't have been that the controls were stronger, so it's extremely important that... control. And the other thing about the advantages of leasing is in relation to natural persons why they do not use such a way of obtaining funds, I see primarily in that other than those advantages that leasing gives in terms of insurance and action prices and costs it is very important to definitely go especially to operational lying to know what its means of benefit will be intended for. If this is a car, how many times a year will it cross, which are the burdens it expects, which are the costs of depreciation, then all that is needed in advance for such a vehicle. In the case of a natural person it is more difficult, of course, given the fact that daily activities are taking place, it is difficult to predict what is ahead of us, so I see in that part that there may be difficulties, that mainly business entities decide on the advantages of leasing. I just wanted to say it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57018	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57019	A respected colleague from the same region. So never, never a single casino, no gambling object has failed. You know why? Because all instruments and appliances are set up to share up to 2/3 of what is inserted or invested into them, so each, poker machine or anything. So is this lying. There's no way that anyone or our government is getting cars on leasing anything profiting from it. It's a set-up of instruments there, so set up regulations so they wouldn't exist if they didn't earn or profit as much as they did from banks or telecommunications. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57020	Honorable representative Ivan Shuker and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57021	Well, my colleague Grubisic, for a replica, has offered me your kind of negative attitude towards leasing societies, but if we are talking about a market economy country, then all economic operators and citizens must simply have the same availability and capital and some other capital services as in all those who compete with them, countries that compete with them. If you simply don't have it, it's also one of your competitive segments. However, what I was saying when I was talking about the Swiss currency clause and what is proposed in the Consumer Credit Act, and it might be good for the Ministry of Finance to consider installing it into this law, that the provisions of the contract are clearly highlighted and printed, that key provisions of the Leasing Treaty are not seen and that those who enter into the Leasing Contract simply do not know what awaits them all. Honestly speaking to counterpart Grubisic, perhaps many Croats that they should have given 10 or 15 thousand euros for some kind of car, that there are no Leasing companies that they could probably never buy because they can't raise 15 thousand euros, but some war that costs 200 or 300 euros in some kind of family calculation he calculated that he could handle. So you should watch it from that side. The second thing, what leasing societies offer might be good, and when it comes to what the government bought at Leasing, to clearly show how much it costs on Leasing, to clearly show how much it costs on Leasing, and how much it costs to call a public tender. Well, maybe someone who sells something at the Leasing can get cheaper or to some cars and some machines because he buys some larger amount and then at some rate that's acceptable all the time when he's added up well, and the one who takes it is cheaper. And not to mention that business entities are often due to their business balance, because credit is being conducted in a completely different way according to international accounting standards than is being conducted... obligation to leasing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's actually giving more quality of their business balance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57022	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57023	Yes, yes, colleague Shuker. When it comes to these business entities, then it is actually like giving money to the Croatian railways or giving guarantees. You've already said that. So that's one colorful... which in the budget of any business company does not show itself, so as some kind, that's exactly what Prime Minister Milanovic was talking about yesterday. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Right? And when it comes to citizens, I ask you how much has been taken away, so those who have entered Leasing cars. Do you know that? How many of those cars from the financial part of the Leasing that should belong to them were taken from them. So citizens are getting harder and harder to bear any form of duty. That's why my duty extends to how long you are and it's best, otherwise you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57024	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the Deputy Minister of Finance, on behalf of the Proposer, it is a good opportunity to say that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are our controllers, through parliamentary television, who can monitor and monitor the work of the Croatian Parliament in the continuity of the plenary session. In addition to Croatian television, the television signal is always present with citizens. And now, on behalf of the motionary, the respected Deputy Minister, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57025	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, just for a little while, because of these, maybe there's some misunderstanding about what's good or not good lying about it, and this is where the question of the citizens is raised. And that's what you said. It's one of the financial products. It can be sold either through a bank, can be sold either through a leasing company, etc. What's important here, because there's a question of why citizens don't take it. You know when, so I'm talking here about getting some property, so whatever that vehicle is, whether it's some kind of machine, it's some kind of real estate, etc. It is also very important to see that when you compare it with other products, is it only in this financial context whether it is similar to what we have talked about or not, but it is also important, for example, because of the VAT itself. Many companies opted for the purchase of leasing because they were especially in the case of financial leasing which they could use, they could use VAT as a pretax because it was the same supply as if they were getting the part. In operational leasing, they didn't get those vehicles, but those vehicles that are on operational Leasing are in books, they're not in books. So in the books are leasing societies and leasing societies that part let's say entry pre-tax benefits. And for the citizens, they used more consumer car loans precisely because they didn't have that VAT on interest that you own at operating Leasing when you have. Because inside you have both the principal and the interest as an annuity and you had VAT on it. There are no consumer credits for natural persons. So you're looking at the whole aspect of whether or not something from the tax system is appropriate to him. What's important for leasing is to use, I know in Croatia a lot is used just for example vehicles. But we forget that leasing equipment let's say the most important was the instrument of our construction operation from 2004 to the fifth until 2008 when that construction operation grew. Why? Because with their credit rating, let's say perhaps they were not under these strict banking rules to obtain it because they did not meet certain responsibilities. But when you get a job I don't know now some machine, some combination that you're going to do some work with, so you have a contract job and you say I'm going to do this job for three years, has a contract for the construction part we have three years contract. I'm going to get that machine or that equipment, I'm going to use it for three years because I need it because I have a contract, I'm not getting it because after three years, I'm going to get it back to Leasing Company and actually get out of that job. This meant a lot to many small craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia and improved their ability to do a certain job. Because they didn't have in this part of it when you're looking maybe through some kind of strict financial rule bank, they didn't have a bonus. But it's not at all about leasing society, and it's not that much, it's what you want with that object. In this case, for example, when buying these construction machines. So the whole Leasing job, especially for small craftsmen, was important and welcome to get some equipment, you know, and medical equipment and various, so where they were equipment, they were getting it because they had a specific job, which is why we're getting it. So we here unfortunately focus only on the vehicles in this part. However, leasing equipment has also significantly improved and given small and medium-sized entrepreneurs that they can get something, that they can do some work, thereby making a profit, and in fact that this object leasing later returns to a leasing society that will later sell it or I don't know through as used with that supplier. So in this context, it was certainly the law-leasing, it certainly provided support for the procurement of both small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who used the part. And in that context, you should also see that it's positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57026	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have replicas and respected representative Branko Vuksic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57027	Dear Deputy Minister, we realized that when we talk about the Leasing in the first place, it wasn't just the cars of state officials or the cars of our own person who dared to go into some kind of leasing. What colleagues have said before is that there are fewer, that there are construction machines, that it is in a certain sense help as you have told small construction entrepreneurs who are taking certain construction machines to the Leasing area so that they can do the job. But the bottom line of all that we're wondering is what's cheaper? Certainly, what my colleague Grubisic used to say before is that, be careful so that the financial sector will not do something that is not cost-effective to him, and very cost-effective. It's the biggest industry, the money industry. You know that well. And everything that's done today is done to make the money industry as powerful as possible. And that's the mantra of neoliberal capitalism. We're talking, now we'd go too deep into whether this whole focus is good, is it good that everything is based on the financial sector and that the financial sector determines the conditions of business? Remember all those companies that worked at the so-called. Third world until '90. For years, remember their construction operations and the way they were working back then. And then we worked very large dams, very large roads, very long highways outside Croatia and these are powerful. Remember the hydropower plant, what the hydropower was doing in Algeria. One of the biggest dams in the world, etc. So she didn't borrow machines, although it's not a small company. Today nothing is worth it to us, today it's only worth borrowing money because it's all borrowing money, not machines.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57028	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57029	Yes, Mr. Minister, an example from Algeria, an example of a dam in... And I don't know where we didn't build everything and that, but there was no leasing, there was no leasing, right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You've tried and somewhat even managed to ease my rhetoric and think about this banking product, therefore, about leasing. So here's what you mentioned about getting equipment and machines from the medical profession, so here's where you touched me a little bit, and then the building that's more frozen even though there's lying and the buildings are gone, we've got extra apartments, because of the crisis and that's what happened, but when we look at the statistics, then that statistics would say, "I'll deny you." And this is that the largest number of uses of this product of banking which solely seeks to obtain was from the purchase of personal cars, and a much smaller part of this other or the rest of the purchase of machines, equipment, installations, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57030	Replication response, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57031	Thank you. And you're right about that. Unfortunately, there is more supply of vehicles than machinery and equipment, but it actually speaks of the structure of property, production property in Croatia, unfortunately if we had more production property, we would have more of these machines on this form of financing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57032	One piece of information for today's work. Since some of the points in the agenda have not been done on board today, we will still be working on points 13, 14, 15, 22 and 28. On behalf of the HNS representative's club, counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57033	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Assistant. On behalf of the HNS Club, I will try to focus on the measure of this law of this item of the agenda without going into too wide a debate as some colleagues but I will also try not to polemize with anyone and thus we from the HNS try to give our pains to the seriousness of the debates that are on the agenda this morning. The question of leasing as a kind of product of the financial market service offered is an interesting issue in the modern history of the financial market in the Republic of Croatia and it has its own weight which is clearly expressed in figures through the value of the total asset, and also through the profit shown, and in any case it is good that, because of the formal and political obligations that conditioned the adoption of this law in the Croatian Parliament, we also change some of the provisions that were, in the opinion of us from the HNS, conservative in the first law that was passed in 2006. So, legally this area was regulated by the 2006 Law but in one way that after the start of a larger number of leasing companies over time reduced that figure to 25 Leasing companies operating in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Why do we today have an obligation to actually talk about this law, and what is the basic motive and reason why this law was to be passed? This is due to the fact that we have become a member state of the EU, and that we have accepted the principle of freedom of movement of capital and the creation of a company and that we simply have our own conditions laid down in the market for lying services we must identify with services or conditions for the provision of the same services and business of the same kind of society in other EU Member States, but also create assumptions that companies dealing with leasing can decide tomorrow, according to their business policy, to operate in other Member States as well. Among other things, of course, the legislator took the opportunity to change some of the things that proved to be a weakness or a semi-open space for some weaknesses in the current legislative regulation, so the regulation and provisions governing the level of the underlying capital must have and must, by direct payment of the company that wants to deal with the lying service, have been adopted by the regulations and that the same company must maintain at least that level of capital that gives certain certainty. Detailed provisions are laid down by the register of leasing facilities, business books, confidential data, but certain business opportunities are also given, given that as well as the banking sector, there is a very common case of the loss of the ability to settle obligations under the lease agreement. Well, then, the companies that gave someone equipment to the Leasing and that equipment came back are in unguarded grapes, and they don't know what to do with that equipment. The possibility of renting, renting, creates more favourable business security to leasing companies, and thus may lead them to a situation where, in the context of the competition, cheaper and more favourable offers of their products because they are being reduced risk. Let Mr. Deputy Minister correct me if I misjudge. Of course it's all a good story about the Croatian economy and, of course, now I'm going back to a part of the debate this morning in Parliament, one truth undisputed. And Leasing contract as well as the possibility of raising credit are the things offered on the financial market and no one forces you to consume them. They have very clear conditions through the definition of operational or financial leasing, they are offered on the market and every legal or physical person tomorrow is either a matter of decision or an assessment of whether or not he wants to consume those services. The question of leasing is the issue of opportunities on the financial market, the opening of opportunities and the diversity of products and services and should not be avoided. What I will join here I will mention to my colleague Marić, and I also touched this indirect colleague, or she touched it, and she commented on my colleague Jelash in the debate is Article 34(4), paragraph 6.I did not in one of my first personal readings preparing for this debate, but, of course, the remark of a respected colleague and the reaction of the esteemed colleagues motivated me to read this article, and as regards the conditions for a member of the management of the teaching society. In fact, this article sets out the conditions that a member of a leasing society or the management of a leasing society must have, and it is good that such conditions are prescribed, but I will be honest that it is strange to me too, I find some formulations. There may be reasonable reasons, and of course, Mr. Deputy with his associates knows much better than a parliamentary representative because he does so. But in paragraph 4, the wording that it has a good reputation is really quite flexible, and it leaves the possibility that I would say no to discretion rather than the possibility maybe even tomorrow to manipulate someone to reject on the basis of this very current criterion, and also to give someone an advantage based on a very undefined, undefined current criterion, which is a good reputation unless it's more detailed. And paragraph 6. "which, on the basis of current behaviour, can reasonably be concluded that it will be fair and conscientious to perform the tasks of a member of the management of the Leasing Society." What are the criteria on which you can conclude or fail to conclude, on the basis of your behaviour so far, that you may or may not perform the tasks of a member of the management of a leasing society. Of course we have to respect thought we have to respect, it's normal to join and termologically some practice of the community that we have become an integral part, but it would be good to remove any ambiguity and dilemma might be considered. And, of course, in HNS, we're not going to make any amendments to this, but we're going to join the recommendation that the motionor consider this part. Finally, as with all other laws concerning the harmonisation of not only legal forms but also the creation of conditions for practical business identical to those on the EU market, the HNS club will support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57034	And in an individual debate, colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57035	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Very briefly, a brief discussion about this colleague before me said, I am not getting into the controversy that it is necessary to contribute to the seriousness of this debate. Turns out that those of us who spoke earlier in that debate were inconclusive, but I will not be so pretentious, so I will say that my debate will contribute to the seriousness of the debate but I will remind you of everything that we have warned before, and that is right for my colleague Baranovic to be part of the market or what is offered on the market, and much is offered on the market from the financial sector. The crisis in this millennium in this and last decade is the biggest crisis that has occurred since the great depression of the 30s in the last century, caused by a mere need on the market of all these financial services of the financial sector. That's where the balloons and all the things that we're talking about today are too much about the crisis that we've gone into, which, by the crisis, is what we're talking about today, is what we're talking about with our own guilt. It does not mean that everything that the financial sector offers is dangerous, not fatal, nor does it mean that everything that the financial sector offers is welcome. It is very good, directed, desirable, to arrange the operation of leasing society, to put it in legal frameworks but in a way that these frameworks are just frameworks, that they are controlled and that, above all, they are if we want to be and if we have defined ourselves and by the Constitution that we are social society, social state, to be on the welfare of society or individuals. Not some, not isolated, but citizens of the Republic of Croatia, taxpayers. Therefore, when we talk about leasing, it is especially in the eyes of buying a car. We saw which is the primary in the offer, which was also the deputy minister and testified himself, he unfortunately said. I don't know the statistics. Maybe those who do construction work are much smarter than both the government and the citizens so they don't take so much to Leasing than they buy or borrow. Especially in the eyes of Prime Minister Milanovic's sentences when he says we didn't buy, we took, take care of Leasing. Now, it would be good if the deputy minister had made some kind of analysis and said when we take it, we take it under the quotes to Leasing then it costs so much on operating leave, and when we take it on financial leave, and when we buy it with cash or take it on loan costs so much. Which justifies, say, the purchase of 1700 vehicles to Leasing, taking 1700 vehicles, or any number of vehicles, by someone caring for the maintenance of those vehicles. As we try to justify growing layoffs, the existence of agencies that will hire workers who have been fired will make it easier to get a job, will be easier to quit jobs and will be easier to get jobs in those agencies. I found out, I talked to a lady who finished college, who works through such agencies for 15 kuna an hour, and she has no right. What does that have to do with leasing?...leasing because we're going to take care of everything that's been taken care of by the vehicles or the maintenance of the machines so far, we're going to destroy it, and we're going to leave it to the agencies. Has anyone when calculating the well-being of leasing calculated all the consequences? I'm sure he didn't, because if he had, he'd have given us more information about it. Therefore, when we talk about leasing, we do not think that this is an offer in a consumer society that needs to be expelled, which should be banned, but rather an offer to which we should be cautious, which should be respected and seen positive and negative experiences. So far, the film Arsen Oremovic's "Marriage to Swiss" has been said about how, before someone mentioned buying a car to Leasing, which means buying a Leasing car and which means falling into debt, not like those debts when buying an apartment, that in the end, that car can be taken to Leasing, destroying the family and that the family loses everything they have because of one car. That's the reality in front of which we close our eyes. When I talk about leasing, I talk about it, about protecting consumers, protecting citizens. Davidson speaks in the book... the solution that when spoken, when everything was offered on the financial market and when it began to claim that only the market would regulate itself without State interference, then one forgot about the greed of individuals. And there's the focus of the crisis, the very simple focus of the crisis. It means quite certain that the law that should be in certain technical details will not solve problems in itself unless the society or the government protects individuals and if the government does not create such legal frameworks in which citizens cannot fall into debt slavery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57036	Now we'll move on to the replicas. Peter Baranovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57037	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Vuksic, I hope that what I say will not be re-labelled as pretentious, it will be in good interest and I will be as free as I will be through the debate once more, but now I will draw more direct attention to all my colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed audience in this Sali, which is our duty and why we are paid. We are paid by all these citizens in which all parliamentary representatives, and especially you in your discussions with full right, are being paid by these people to seriously and responsibly discuss topics that are on the agenda, to study seriously and responsibly the measure of legal proposals, the decision contains reports that are being submitted and made in this House. We're not paid, it's my deep belief that we're benevolent debaters. Those late Supeks were threatened in their actions, but we were paid to talk on the agenda about the measure of things. If I'm that free and someone takes it as pretentious, let them forgive me. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. But I will retain the right to remind my colleagues that we need to stick to the scale of things, because every hour of work of this House costs a lot, and every day of this Parliament's work much more than a car that will be bought on a Leasing in which some state official will drive while doing his job. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57038	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57039	Dear colleague, I'm not clear from those parliamentary deputies who give the right to say what they think. I've never started and I don't blame you either. Everyone's right, everyone's got their own style, everyone's got their own way. However, citizens will assess who is serious and who is inconclusive. The citizens watch, the people who watch, listen to what we say, and the citizens will assess who is fighting for their interests, especially those who chose us, especially those who made the vote, whether we fulfilled those promises we made before the election or it was another deception. And it seems to me that if I assess the overall success of this government and if I look at what the Kukuriku coalition has promised before the elections that my humble opinion is that you're very, very far away from it, and as soon as you're away, it's probably unserious.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57040	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57041	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Vuksic, I'm afraid this proposal will not protect the end-user as it has never been before. I'll give you a very specific example. You took the car to Leasing, you read all the tiniest letters they ever wrote. You've paid off all your wars neatly. You have been informed from the Leasing House that your debt has been reduced to zero, they have taken over the car, and it has been written that everything has been in order and without any warning and I am going to ask the Minister, the Assistant Minister to tell him later and to whom it is without any notice simply a sitting user who has paid off all his obligations to the Leasing facility on account. They carry out 30, 40,000 kunas, unilaterally do an assessment of the returned facility and the paid object of leasing and the citizen cannot help himself. It's a reality. Anything you bought, you talked about machines, there were cases like that. So, a certain lying house. Those who had money were brought to court and those who had no money were brought into a situation of course to re-indemnify for something they had already paid for. It's a reality. These are clear examples that happened in Croatia. So, even though you read it all well, I don't see how the end-user will, therefore, protect the recipient of the Leasing facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57042	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57043	Well, I agree with you. There are more of these examples. I've got a dozen examples up there of people complaining about the Leasing House procedure, which just confirms that the financial sector is privileged to the sector, that the financial sector is above the law and that the laws that regulate the financial market and the practice are at stake. When the phonies are in the middle of it, then I guess we have to start acting. And then our action and warning here in the House is declared inconclusive because it is serious to claim that the Leasing Houses must act freely, because if they put themselves in frames where they will not be able to treat citizens who pay off all obligations to the Leasing Houses, then Leasing Houses can invent various costs the same in tens of thousands of kunas to buy cars. And then we're into suffocating the free market, and the free market is also a single wetland that's not just a new date, which was created 170 and a few years ago, and we never really talk about the essence here, whether we're the society that we've defined ourselves for or not. However, I agree with you in the Parliament should first and foremost be of interest to the protection of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57044	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57045	Thank you. So here's colleague Vuksic, you mentioned something about the purchase of machines and previously the deputy minister mentioned just at the time of the zero-fourth-eightth conukture of construction and the biggest expansion of that corrupt octopus that cracked the prices of public works and in road construction, of course, at multiple prices of works given to the agreed performers. Of course they simply raised very expensive leasing and blew themselves in fact, and de facto they didn't even exist at all, it was leasing, not that it was useful but was already the means of actually that corrupt octopus in that entire sector for that one group of so-called. medium, small, and even sometimes larger entrepreneurs who would actually not exist without that octopus, and they have drawn millions of euros from it. And when it comes to citizens and why citizens take Leasing, especially cars, so they took it because they weren't in HROK. And of course you were in charge of credit and you couldn't take more credit on the car, and leasing was extracted from HROK from the Croatian Credit Liaison Register and of course that then citizens were the only thing they and could actually be forced to take the car to Leasing as a physical person and that they actually further significantly owed their income. And the question is actually why citizens' obligations by Leasing were also not entered into HROK is that it would actually put citizens in a position not to be over-indebted, and which was actually just over-leasing made possible because many citizens were actually over-indebted by taking more on Leasing cars.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57046	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57047	You have just told your colleague Đurović one of the eclectic examples of how leasing actually damages. That's what you said in 2004, 2005, yes. Leasing was a tool to collect. Now we're talking, the current government is talking about the fact that roads are several times the construction of miles of road more expensive than some market price. We know an example of this big gorica detour that's been working for five years and a mile of highway costs so much that it hurts your head. But no one here has a headache, that's not at all discussed. And when will that be? It will come 15 years in a row at Mr. Bajic's pace. Just when I was talking about leasing, I was talking about how absolutely certain the banking sector wouldn't offer something he couldn't make more money on. And that's the thing. And now how are we going to protect the citizens? Well, you just said that. Since they're not in the loan bonds register means those who took the lying, why did we exclude them from it? So let's take care of the financial sector. And are we taking care of the citizens? No, they say the citizens are responsible for themselves. Yeah, but we're here to help them, not push them into debt slavery.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57048	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57049	Thank you, Madam Vice President. When you spoke about the seriousness or inconclusiveness of our discussions, I absolutely agree with you, so you could actually talk about the inconclusiveness of the part and this law that brings before us a solution in which someone should have a good reputation in article 34. So, what's going on after this law? There is likely to be a reputation agency to be hired again by some prominent ones who will again assess their reputation in order to be with the Agency for Rewards. So, this senseless reference to certain parts concerning board members or acquirers and we also have articles before we also have the reputation mentioned again, etc., indeed in this way we do not need to present in this law. And there's actually going to be a basis for malfeasance, for abuse of the law itself. When you spoke of protecting citizens, I agree with you that we should primarily be on the minds of protecting citizens when we talk about this law. Why? There have been cases where the owners of the leasing house led their malfeasances to the fact that cars were taken away from those who paid the wars neatly and who had ultimately the opportunity and the ransom. So they took away something that could eventually be theirs or theirs, depending on whether it's operational or whether it's financial lying. So we should think absolutely first of all about citizens and agree with you that, of course, banking houses have their own interest, but we should only think about our fellow citizens. And the third thing that's also important here is the law says how unserious it is, it says the expression teaching article 3. item 4 of the term "leasing" or its derivative. Which one? What's his executor? There's no telling which one's his executor. So the law defines something that isn't defined. So, very often we meet with bad proposals, and serious suggestions should be discussed that we have thousands of people on the streets every day and every day, new unemployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57050	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57051	We are well in the opposition here, especially the Labourists several times taught about what is serious and what is unserious, but is it not unserious to predict 1.50 or 1.75 growth and then experience a 2% GDP decline? I mean, it's unserious, it's just that they're doing unserious governments that can't assess either the frameworks in which neither their options work, nor they've created preconditions for any economic progress, and then it's not unserious. That's what? It happened. Look, when it works out by principle and my God happened then we have what we have, then we have lessons from constituencies but the results after these lessons we don't have. I agree with you on the establishment of the Reward Agency. So they don't start making fun of each other with a reputation. It is absolutely certain that in Croatian society there are prominent people, it is quite certain that the reputation of what we should seek is something that we should strive to be as moral society as possible, but we have turned it all around, and here in the Croatian Parliament we have tolerated people who have done different insubordinations, we have called them dignitaries, we have treated them with dignitaries. Let's just remember Mr. Vidosevic was talking about the presidential election. At that time, a text containing all his assets was written and asked Mr. Bajic if he knew where this property came from? That's what Mr. Ivkosic wrote in the Evening List. He counted all the assets. And then they said not to touch the prominent citizen Nadan Vidosevic and that it was purely politics. It means that Mr. Bajic now deals with politics, not the jobs he should have done before. So, I hope you've said ironically that you need to start a reputation agency and you wouldn't take it seriously.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57052	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57053	Thank you very much. Your discussion was almost based on what I said at the beginning of my debate, which is the very translation of the English word leasing or lying, after I said it was a bit of a colourful lie or actually a product of liberal capitalism or a banking sector and as one of all other products of the banking industry. When we talk or talk about citizens and the possible consequences that can arise from the use of the Leasing Institute, then you didn't mention or at least I didn't hear that Leasing is also bound to the exchange rate. So then the Swiss franc produced the same effect as it produced with the foundation or example of that movie "married to Swiss," but we were only here to discuss where consumer loans would prevent it from going further, but in leasing. Is that how it's gonna be with leasing? Obviously not, I don't know. So this riching based on the exchange rate difference, so in leasing remains this Swiss and everything else that is related to the Swiss. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57054	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57055	Dear counterpart Grubisic, all that we have stated in several discussions is all the weaknesses of leasing as a financial product. It is this binding that is also related to the foreign clause, so it will probably tell us now in the final address Mr. Lalovec that, which is why this law protects the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and why we are so persistent in offering something that we have seen that is not good. Have we fully taken over the neoliberal doctrine because this is part of the neoliberal doctrine and we put it all under the basket, we have entered the EU and you have decided in the 1990s on this arrangement. No Croatian citizen took a gun and fought for what we have today. Save it, God! People cross when they see what those ideals they had in the 1990s turn into. And today we have everything under the auspices of social democracy. Is this a solution offered by the Social Democratic Left Government?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57056	Vice President Milorad Batinic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57057	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Vuksic, can in part agree with one part of your debate, which is the role of us in Parliament and the promoter when speaking or proposing the laws of the protection of citizens. Yeah, and you've mentioned yourself leasing is an option. Your debate offered me in one part remembers my first term as mayor of 2005 and the director of the municipal company when he had a rolling stock, Licians know how to say it older than Jesus' donkey and said he had to do it for another year and a half 500 thousand kuna to buy a new utility vehicle, means the one to drive the waste. That's when I said if there were any possibilities other than credits, etc. He said he'd make a calculation and, of course, there was a possibility of leasing. Today, the utility company doesn't have any credit vehicles, it doesn't have any vehicles simply because it doesn't have enough capital to be taken on leave. Leasing is also a responsibility, the responsibility of one who takes responsibility. No one's forcing anyone to do anything. What's key, we're talking in this part of the debate that I could hear right now, first of all, is the question of the contract, the text of the lease agreement. In 2006 I took one vehicle to Leasing, another vehicle to Leasing, van to the invalids Association and children with special needs no problems, very positive experiences. However, the text of the contract was extremely important when we got from the lying house to study well, we did some adjustments according to the law, their proposals, things worked more than well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57058	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57059	Dear fellow Batinić, we're actually talking about the same things, and now the only question on which side we're looking at it. So if that's the question of the contract, I've told you before, the whole financial crisis that came up in 2007 re-recorded the globe because of these problems, precisely because they claimed. Okay, I can't explain the causes of the financial crisis to you in two minutes. But that's exactly what the banal said, that's exactly what the greed of individuals has led to too much balloon. The financial houses came into great crisis precisely because they offered individuals who took, you would tell irresponsible individuals. There are irresponsible authorities that allow it. So why is the Croatian government pulling people out of debt slavery now for those who took credit in Swiss? Because he feels responsible. I hope it's because she feels responsible. These people are being cheated because it's a loan. And what the Croatian government is doing is doing well to try what Minister Linic is doing is a good thing. It's finally showing its teeth, I hope it's not just a show, it's showing its teeth to the banks. We should protect Croatian citizens from what is offered them because many people are weak people who cannot assess. Well, what we said wasn't in the register, the credit register, why don't we put it in the credit register and then it won't get easily into debt slavery. So I'm only talking about protection, the way we have to protect, and that's where we all think the same thing. Look, contracts can easily be signed by companies, so besides the directors of public companies sign anything, you've seen... now you're talking about individuals who aren't experts, how they sign the contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57060	Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec's closing statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57061	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As for today's debate of the Leasing Act, I would start with, and this is also about the context of this financial product, whether it should be regulated or not, and I think it's very good, and that has shown let's say this all you said American practice, why these all and crises and certain balloons were created, precisely from the doctrine of deregulation. So you deregulate everything to free yourself from private capital to create certain values. What she recognized, and I always try and emphasize the former government, and that's a positive thing she did, I'm saying in the context of this law, is that she passed the Law on Leasing in 2005, or maybe we ask what it wasn't. When that part grew, when it was especially, and you know maybe in the context of what it was brought about? It was introduced in the context of a business bank which actually tried to place its placements more than certain regulations allowed by the CNB. So this law that was passed at that time in 2006 was just about not allowing banks to bypass through their branches pumping a certain part of the strengthening of financial products and designs to bypass a certain regulatory central bank and, in that context, it was positive in 2005 and who knows that it was not adopted in what context that part would further develop. And that's why we're talking about regulation here, and that's why this regulation is important, and we talk all the time if we can improve, strengthen financial sector regulation, it's now showing that it's good. Because when you look at the whole area in the European Union, they don't have all the land law, they don't have all the land, but let's say in that part maybe because of the interest of a bank we brought it in and it turned out to be good. Here in this part of consumer protection that you have said certainly this Consumer Protection Act, as well as the Consumer Credit Act for natural persons also refers to the treatment of natural persons. He refers to them, too. But as we said here in the Consumer Credit Act, we talked about housing loans, long-term loans that are at least 20 years old, only if it applies to the individuals who took on this currency regulation, the loan applies to them as well. As we know, we said that he was not so attractive to natural persons, and I also said why, because of tax treatment where their tax treatment through banking services was more favourable because the banks were then not in the VAT system so they did not pay interest services and that part of VAT on interest. And that's why it was cheaper for citizens to take a consumer loan than for lying that was more focused on legal persons because they could benefit from the pre-tax that was being charged. So it was the cost of doing business for them, and that's why leasing is more and more intended for legal persons, not natural persons, but for those persons who are physically opting for this form of leasing and the Consumer Protection Act, it says in the law and the Consumer Credit Act also refers to those persons because we talk about consumers as individuals, as a citizen, as a natural person. In that part, the Consumer Credit Act also refers to citizens as individuals. So this part of regulation, deregulation, we showed that it's good to have it in this part, and if we can still improve it, what you're actually saying, we can certainly get back to me in such examples and there's a need to set an example for both HANFA and the Law... of consumers and which... to all actually institutes. And if we can protect such things in order to protect the consumer as a natural person, we can take concrete measures to protect consumers even more, it is all welcome through the changes made. If we can do that, and that's this function of yours that you here, with your full conscience, actually point out that we need to adopt them, I think we're going to find a common language here. When we talk, not to go into too much detail about whether someone is worth buying for cash, certainly if someone has money, it's always worth more to buy for cash because they don't pay interest, at least in that context to get something for money or take it through some financial product, I'll just short but I won't say in the details of operational lying. Maybe why some industries, whole industries that are e.g. in the Republic of Croatia, he is the only possible source of funding for large fleets of vehicles, e.g. in the rental-a-car industry, means all those companies that deal with rental-a-car transactions mostly finance their entire fleets on operational lying. And why there's no financial, so maybe just one element. When you take the one as you get it, I said you get it like a loan, you pay the interest on the total amount if there's a hundred units, you pay all hundred units that interest. In operational Leasing, this notion of the rest of the value where you don't use that vehicle, so you pay interest let's say if you get a vehicle for 3 years then you actually have, you don't pay for the whole amount of 100 units but you have after 3 years that your vehicle is 40% the rest of the value that it will actually buy by paying the interest at a much smaller amount of capital that you finance than the purchase of a loan or financial that you pay on a much wider basis. And that's why it's cheaper and more favourable to take in operational lying in this part because of this rest of the value that you later sell on the market because you pay interest on a smaller base, you don't pay for the total amount of 100 units. And that's actually recognized by many industries so you see out there that we don't talk and the big planes, many airlines have their air buses so big planes have been getting just on operating Leasing and together with these suppliers actually used later on the placement of that Leasing. So that's one of the modes that proved useful for the economy. As far as the cost here is concerned, it is very important that anyone who enters this relationship knows what its benefits and financial benefits are, not only that, but also that it knows what their tax benefits are. If he's got a tax relief, he doesn't. Whether he can use a pre-tax or not, what is ultimately in his books or not registered in some books as off-balance sheet financing, etc. that we don't enter this section too closely. However, he certainly has his advantages and disadvantages. But once again, it's good that there was this Law on Leasing in 2005 and it's a positive thing just to regulate that part of the business, not to be able to actually let's say unlimited controls and on the other hand in this part it can still improve through this law it improves that all Leasing societies must have risk management much more internal control, much stronger internal surveillance etc. And what you're saying is that it can be built in even stronger and even better, here's consumer protection. I thank you again for your extremely constructive debate. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57062	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57063	Final proposal of the Leasing Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 459. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like a representative of the reputable deputy minister, Boris Lalovec, to be made manifest. Amendment No. Article 2
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57064	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57065	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No. 2nd to Articles 47 and 50.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57066	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57067	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final proposal. Amendment No. 3. in Articles 48 and 49.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57068	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57069	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. Article 113 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57070	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57071	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57072	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57073	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Thank you too, Deputy Minister. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most votes, 80 votes in favour and 31 abstentions have been passed by the Leasing Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57074	We're moving on to 13. Final draft law amending the Law on the Compensation Fund, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 496. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session, and the opening proposal will be explained by Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57075	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here it means very briefly. The law relating to, has three articles and is more technical in nature, and it refers to the Fund for the Compensation of Assets being a budgetary user who is, in fact, the main objective of this law in such a way that the total assets are provided from the State budget and that the total means that the traffic that is now taking place outside the State Treasury system to be within that State Treasury system. I have to say, when these funds were actually founded at that time when the Treasury treasury was developing, there were no specific technical options. So we're talking about a long time ago back in '97. years and then certain funds were out of the State Treasury system even though they are, by their character, a budgetary user. They are a budget user, so you can see from their report that most of the funds are actually provided by the Treasury. As the State Treasury has actually been developing in the last five, six years and training, so are these jobs that are related to certain funds that have been out of the system and are now in the system. And that they are also, according to the Regulation on the establishment of budgetary and non-financial beneficiaries of the state budget, a real user is because according to this Regulation is the one who makes more than 50% of the revenue, the total revenue from the state budget is the budgetary user. And as you can see, in 2012 out of 159 million kuna from the state budget, this fund founded 131 million kunas of 150. So he's meeting this budget user criterion so he's now in the State Treasury system. So nothing is related to their business but also to the liquidity and total payment turnover to be carried out within the State Treasury system and that all the funds for their operation in that part will be covered. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57076	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57077	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, apparently before us, and as the Deputy Minister said, there is one technical point. But since we in this House very often like to use certain numerical indicators for political purposes, then I think that this bill for the simple reason not to politicize it was to offer some information. And for the simple reason why and what was done through this fund and financed in recent years in a certain way creates a part of that public debt of 190 and so many billion kunas. And I believe that in the proposal for this law, given that it enters the budget and becomes an integral part of the State Treasury, it was necessary to show in the light of the law what the Fund's obligations are. So how many total liabilities did the fund make, long-term, short-term, with which he provided funds for the compensation of the property that was seized during the Yugoslav communist rule. That's the official name of the law. And I think that this proposal would then be complete because we practically knew what it was like three years ago, how the shipbuilding in the Republic of Croatia will be restructured and that is accepted by the EU. Today, however, in political bickering as much as anyone has left a deficit, this shipbuilding is creating that something was not known. I'm so scared that tomorrow someone wouldn't say someone left someone something and it's simply a consequence that people who have suffered for 45 years that someone took away their property and that huge property get some kind of compensation that, unfortunately, it's not even fair anymore because the value of property and the treatment of that property at some point in time when it was taken away from them is something that's quite the opposite. Therefore, I believe that this amount should have been said in the light of this law. Also, I think we have easily crossed over the original income of this fund, and these are the assets from the sale of apartments and the purpose of their use. Why am I saying that? So for the simple reason that part of the income from selling these apartments remains for local self-government units and the funds from selling these apartments are to say strictly for purposes. It in the budget units of local self-government should have a counterpoint on the spending side, which is buying social housing. The same should be seen because unfortunately many who are the subject of the Trusted Assets Fund during the Yugoslav communist rule are today social cases and should be given social housing to live. And if the local self-government unit does not use these funds for purpose, then they are double damaged on the other hand that they cannot participate in this social programme. So I believe that in this bill too, when the model and mode of operation were changed, it was necessary to show how much the fund had raised from the sale of apartments for the simple reason that once the president of the late Dr. Tudjmana has enabled many Croats living in social housing to come to a very, very affordable property that today has a great value. Unfortunately, however, all forget it together, and in such a way many citizens of the Republic of Croatia have resolved their life-saving issue which, had it not been for the move of the late president, would probably never have resolved their housing issue. Unfortunately, because of the situation and the profit they had. So that's what we think should have been said and it's good that here is the situation of income and expenditure in the previous years. It should also be said here that it is symptomatic that in 2011, nearly 50 million less should have been given from the state budget compared to 2012 for the simple reason that the fund by rational behaviour and management of previous years had income surpluses and therefore had to give so much less than the surplus because you see that they had a positive business in 2011. Why am I saying this? So again, if someone wasn't tossing, here's what you see on the surface like that, they had so much revenue, and the expenditures so much someone had to settle it, etc. So when we pass such a law that tangs some who have suffered a great injustice during the Yugoslav communist rule, then it is simply necessary to present some figures for the reason that tomorrow, in any debate, when there is a debate both on public debt and on the deficit of the state budget, there is no political and non-political debate. So if, therefore, the Ministry of Finance feels that this is how it will improve the work of the fund, we have no reason not to support this bill, but I repeat, perhaps these few numbered indicators would be good if, in the light of this law, the Deputy Minister had given or perhaps had them there to say in his final address for a simple reason, that tomorrow someone would not say that the foundation of the Fund for Compensation of Disposed Assets during the Yugoslav Communist Government was made public debt so much and so much. I think this fund is the least of the pain and suffering these people have suffered. I repeat, the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57078	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović is on the board. And you want a final? Boris Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57079	Here's my thanks, Madam Vice President. Well, unfortunately, I don't have a report on the work of the fund where it's complete and complete, it actually defines obligations and rights so that in this part I really don't have any obligations and technical figures but I say the fund's report is in front of you, in front of your very clear and transparent presentations there so that we didn't even consider it necessary to supplement it. It's really important here that really in this technical part of the treasury it will help with the fund and through better liquidity management and the arrangement of certain funds, that this in this context is actually being seen as a positive that the fund enters within the State Treasury system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57080	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57081	Final draft law amending the Law on the Compensation Fund, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 496. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 111 votes, the law amending the Fund for Compensation Act has been passed, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57082	Moving to 14. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on fiscal responsibility, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 499; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57083	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here is a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on fiscal responsibility, first reading. The fiscal responsibility law adopted by the Croatian Parliament at its meeting on 23 November 2010 defined the fiscal rule and introduced the obligation to draw up a declaration of fiscal responsibility with a view to ensuring and maintaining fiscal responsibility, transparency and medium-term and long-term sustainability of public finances. The attached amendments and additions to the current Fiscal Responsibility Act are set out in the following. The current fiscal rule is replaced by a new rule because the existing rule does not take into account the existence of economic cycles and, in the prevailing conditions of decreasing economic growth, this rule further jeopardises the prospects for growth and the additional reason for amending the rules is to bring EU legislation into line. This draft draft law also partially transposes the 2011 Council Directive of 85. One part of the provisions of the Directive shall be transposed into other legal regulations. In accordance with that Directive, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to define the standards of fiscal planning to be based on realistic macroeconomic and budgetary projections. It is also prescribed to publish information on the impact of tax expenditure on income as information on potential commitments with significant budgetary impacts such as State guarantees. The obligation to make a declaration of fiscal responsibility is also introduced for companies owned by the Republic of Croatia or one or more units of local and regional (regional) self-government and other legal persons whose founder is one or more units of local and regional (regional) self-government. This amendment is very important in the context of opening up opportunities for the use of EU funds. It is now companies and other legal entities that are the most potential beneficiaries of these funds. And given the obligations that must be met before and when EU funds are used, a transparent system of financial management and control is being built. This is a 4th significant change in the provisions on political responsibility are replaced by infringements and the emphasis is placed on the credibility of further declarations of fiscal responsibility. The current information relating to infringements is this Article 11 which is now changing from political responsibility to offence. In 2010 the fiscal liability law introduced political responsibility in the form of a mandate being made available as another component of the personal responsibility of each head, so as to the municipal head, mayor or mayor for the good establishment of the financial management system. The political responsibility has also been introduced by reason of the accession to amend and supplement the rules governing the appointment or selection of unit leaders of local and regional (regional) self-government of the municipal mayor, mayor or mayor so that that provision can be applied in practice. However, changes and additions have not been made. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on the system of the Republic of Croatia submitted by the Association of Cities due to the incompetence of political responsibility in practice. Following this proposal for a law, it is proposed to delete the provision of political responsibility or the replacement of the same criminal liability which is in accordance with the rules relating to infringements, in general, bearing in mind the gravity and consequences resulting from the fact of those infringements. The provisions of the bill shall be prescribed that the head, therefore, the municipal chief, mayor or mayor of fines with fines of 5 to 25 thousand kuna only if he does not draw up and deliver a declaration of fiscal responsibility and, when verifying the content of the declarations of fiscal responsibility, is found to be the basis for a declaration of fiscal liability to be authentic. For example, the question in the fiscal liability questionnaire that the certificate is... and the documentation provided shows that this response should have been negative. What is trying to change the new Fiscal Responsibility Act? In short, four are the important papers of this law. the fiscal rule is amended, and this fiscal rule changes not only with regard to the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU but also with regard to stricter controls and control mechanisms, in accordance with the Stability Pact and so on. a six-pack for non-euro area members in defining sustainable public finances. The current fiscal rule has said that 1% of total annual expenditures must be reduced annually by 1% of GDP until you reach the primary surplus. However, the remarks we made when this fiscal rule was done were according to technical assistance not only of the IMF but also of the EU Commission which say further cuts when the recession occurs can still be counterproductive in this context when, as you know, the Republic of Croatia is unfortunately in a five-year recession period. And when you take that GDP drop in these periods is over 10% when you take that as more than 2% a year, it's not to say the circumstances under which it's certainly very difficult, no matter what part of the savings or cuttings you have, you can hardly maintain such public finances in the long term if the recession lasts very deep and it's so lasting. And in this context, it is said that the conditions under which not only the state operates but in which it works, but in which context it is spoken in which the economy operates. Is it certainly that you have this part of the recession impact that you certainly have less income and less VAT and less profit tax, you are reducing that revenue side of the budget, and on the other hand you have certain expenditures such as unemployment benefits and a certain other part of the expenditure affected by this recession and they say that this part should be valorised through public finances. It means that they must be included in a structural or cyclically adjusted fiscal deficit. Here it comes from this concept that it must be valorised and that it itself continues to be cut, but unfortunately, what is the structure of the Republic of Croatia's budget that, even after further cutting, you become not only counterproductive but you endanger those parts that should not be threatened, these are pensions and certain social benefits. How do you know that in our budget a large part refers to pensions and certain social benefits further certain cuts can be counterproductive especially in this area of long-term recession. In this context, when I make this fiscal rule that I say is fully in line with the directives and with that six-pack which is actually in this excessive deficit procedure, the entry into the European Union is expected, which says that since it is such a long period of recession that it must be valorised, valorised in this process and that you have to have a certain time in which it will actually be long-term, it must be this long-term sustainability but that you have to give time to see these adjustments, accept and not to say that they are cut overnight from year to year. This has been shown by many other countries that unfortunately that only certain cuts overnight were not only counterproductive but did not actually show a certain effect. And then we say what time it is, that's what the Government of the Republic of Croatia will actually do in agreement with colleagues from Brussels, after deep recording and identifying those real structural problems through the budget, and in fact when we talk about the structural problems of our public finances in agreement with the Commission, whether it will be 3 years, whether it will be 2 years, that actually that part of state and public finances must be sustainable in the long term. All the time they talk about long-term, sustainable public finances that will not be, will be excluded by some one-time increase in expenditure or a one-time fixed revenue rather than by putting it at a certain level that it will be manageable, but within that specified time limit. So that's the first, important, fundamental change, and that's where we'd really like to hear today, to open the debate, to reiterate that this is the first reading today, and to exchange opinions about whether this is a fiscal rule, how we can actually share it with certain experiences and opinions. So here are all your proposals regarding that part of the fiscal rule and what are our obligations and according to this six-pack of entry, now especially... entering the European Union where most countries have accepted that part of the six-pack, in which way and in which time Croatia will have to make long-term public finances sustainable to them. Another important change is that the directive of the European Union is also directly applicable, and it refers to the definition of standard fiscal planning that speaks of more realistic estimates of macroeconomic and budgetary projections, meaning which are currently standing and is related to you often, and through various discussions means when certain projections and economic growth and certain macroeconomic growth are given, that they must be much more realistic and they will actually be brought in fact not to say in agreement but will certainly be corrected in that part and with the European Commission's point of view. It's always there when we talk about some kind of assessment and when someone estimates whether there's going to be economic growth or economic downturn, etc. It is very difficult to manage some projections, so you can see that these estimates are audited annually by the Commission and by financial institutions, etc., that always, let's say, every little review so that in this context all these projections between the European Commission and the Government should be revised, so they do not only in Croatia but at European Union level, that they should actually be in the context that they should be as close as possible. But if there are certain differences between projections, to actually explain why and with certain concrete measures when it's said to actually try to explain that difference. It's the other newspaper that's very important here, and it's about real macroeconomic projections and budgetary and macroeconomic projections. The third is related to fiscal responsibility, meaning it is expanding, meaning it is expanding to those companies owned by the Republic of Croatia and the other legal person, meaning that one finer of filling that declaration of fiscal responsibility is expanding. And the fourth one I believe will be debated, is that the political responsibility that has actually been in the current fiscal responsibility statement that has been in force since 2010, but has never been implemented, and this area should have been defined by the law on local self-government. And you even have this particular lawsuit under the Constitutional Court that you cannot implement this particular part in practice and that it is likely true that, in connection with that part of the political responsibility in the statement of fiscal responsibility, this part is now changing into the area of criminal liability with the rules with certain penalties relating to a declaration of fiscal responsibility which is actually about legal, meaningful management of the funds and that a system of financial management and control must be built. So these are certain four significant newspapers in this law and this is one step that is not only changing in relation to a particular one since 2010, I am now talking about 2013 or 2014 which will most likely apply, but also new circumstances where it will be done both in relations with the European Commission and with other institutions when we talk about the long-term financial stability of public finances. So while this law is not to say quite technically, especially when it comes to this fiscal sustainability and this fiscal rule and we are here very quickly will come to you in fact in your benches and the draft budget for 2014 will, in fact, be through this budget which unfortunately has been looking at these structural problems that this government has started, which are not simple and these particular structural problems certainly create additional pressure on public finances in particular in certain areas. But regardless, it means on that part they are, they are structural and when we are and in conversation with the Commission they are not the views of a one-time cutting but they are just putting more emphasis on solving these structural problems so that public finances are sustainable in the long term. So in this context of some of their recommendations is in this part and this part of the fiscal rule, the emphasis is how we can solve these structural problems, and that will certainly and possibly through today's debate here, is that our two biggest let's say the structural problems that actually come out of that budget are the question of the pension system, what let's say and health care. But let's not talk about it being just a problem for Croatia. It's a real problem for everyone, not to say both developed countries and Western countries, and that's what you see today and a big problem in the United States as well. And when we talk today, I can also say with problems, when we talk to both the IMF and Western developed countries understand Croatia's problems because they have such problems at home. And they also have heavy problems and the pension system and the health system, so in that context they're no longer having these relationships here's the only part... but they see that these problems and they face them at their homes and that these problems are trying these models that are actually, which may have been solved before they change them today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these two structural biggest problems are health and pension systems. Because when we talk about values, they make up more than half of the budget, it is certainly these issues that, through these fiscal rules or through certain reforms, will have to be resolved in this long-term period if we want and can and must have long-term stable public finances. Here's a thank you. So once again this is the first reading and here I am really at the Ministry of Finance, at least I'm personally listening to your discussions and all of your discussions are worth recording. And what we can fix, I think, is that this is a common thing that will need to be solved because this part will certainly open up questions for every future government, regardless of the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57084	Thank you very much. Replica, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57085	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, it's hard to defend, of course, certain things a man doesn't believe in. I would say that poor Europe is very poor in this part when we talk about Croatia, because whenever we need to stir, hide, blur, then we talk about Europe, talk about the environment, talk about things that are normal as in Europe. They're not here in Croatia. You said that this amendment to the law is actually an expansion of fiscal responsibility, and I would say that the word responsibility should be removed from the title because it basically disappears. What other responsibility for a politician can be of political responsibility? Five or ten or fifteen thousand kuna? Then what? And what if you do damage to tens, hundreds of millions of kunas? But it's normal to do what's often said in this assembly again. Here Orwell is often mentioned and those terms are equal and equal, so now that it is seen that the prime minister is in violation and, of course, Minister of Finance, then let's change the law. Good thing it's first reading, because you need to change this part right up to 60% of the public debt because we're already in violation. We are now reading that the deficit is already planned, or public debt is greater than 60% now in the government that was previously established, and then we have time to change that part. But in any case, it would definitely be good to implement the current law that is in force and see what is the responsibility, which are sanctions for leading people who manage the finances of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57086	Thank you very much. Replication response, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57087	Thank you. So when we talk about meeting a certain fiscal rule and fiscal responsibility for 2012 it is fulfilled and according to this law it is fulfilled and in that part it is, that part is not to say covered, but is satisfied. However, here when we talked about a certain political responsibility we said that this part should be resolved through another law, through another law. And unfortunately, here are four years through this second law, the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government through that law needs to be solved, not that part because there is a simple space left, and you even have that inconclusive in practice and therefore that part is proposed. But certainly political responsibility will be the most truly and the best solution is actually through elections and through the will of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57088	Martina Dalic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57089	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Lalovac, just one sentence below. The existing laws and existing fiscal rules for 2012 are not met because its fulfillment was shown only by administrative attribution of shipbuilding guarantees in 2011 which was clearly reflected by the fiscal committee. Therefore, the fiscal committee also made it clear that the existing rule was not fulfilled in 2012 but was fulfilled thanks to this accounting approach. However, what I wanted to tell you is that apart from changing the existing law because you can't satisfy its provisions, what's terribly surprising is that in fact, the law that we are discussing today and the budget you proposed at the government will not satisfy what you yourself are proposing. That's really weird and weird. In fact, what you are proposing is that the fiscal rule is changed so that the fiscal rule is governed by the EU. The adjustment plan, the fiscal rule is the adjustment plan, the adjustment plan is governed by the council, the reference potential rate is regulated by the European Commission. So you are passing a law in which the fiscal rule is as defined by the EU. If you are already proposing such a rule that is not in line with the directive, then today you are making a budget that brings about an increase in deficits. Do you think the increase in the deficits you are proposing in the 2014 budget will be in line with the law you are proposing today? And that the European Commission will welcome this as a way to fulfil the obligations under the excessive deficit prevention procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57090	Thank you very much. Replication response, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57091	Thank you. As regards the 2012 rule, it was fulfilled, and what you're saying about bookkeeping transitions is, in fact, EUROSTAT said the last word they said about certain books when certain transactions were to be registered, and that part shows what the deficit was in 2011. And certainly this is the first reading in this section where we are talking about adaptation and especially about the excessive deficit procedure of each budget to be passed will need to be consistent with this legislation. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57092	Comrade Dalic, you'll discuss it and you'll say it. Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57093	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy, you're saying you might be able to get the impression that this change in the law is of a technical nature. Believe me, none of us in this assembly have thought of such a thing, this is indeed a change of nature to me. In fact, the government claims these changes, i.e. it proposes that it be lifted from its obligation to reduce the expenditure side of the budget by 1 percentage point of GDP. This means that the government in this way means that there is neither vision nor courage to reduce the expenditures of the state budget. Which means that the necessary reforms in the public sector, in the pension system and in the health system remain. If we know, Mr. Deputy, that we are not expected to grow in GDP in the coming years, then that means there is no growth in the revenues of the state budget. So I would be interested that, because you didn't say that in your opening statement, how and in what way does the Government, if it has no intention of reducing the expenditures of the state budget, if the projected planned GDP growth has no significant increase in the state budget's revenue as the government intends to reduce the deficit of the state budget? I think that through the proposal for a rebalancing that was in the government today and through the proposal of the State Budget for next year, the government should have made that clear because of these amendments to the law, it is the fact that the Government recognises the capitulation in relation to the state of affairs in public finances.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57094	Replication response, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57095	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow MPs means the answer regarding how the Government has no vision, related to the reduction of expenditure through the implementation of the 2012 budget, you saw that certain categories of expenditure when talking about staff expenditures, subsidies and certain material expenditures was a significant reduction in that part of expenditure compared to 2011. So that's visible from the execution plan. Also, in 2013 you have certain expenditures such as staff expenditures, material expenditures, subsidies, that are reduced. However, all of this has a measure of how long the system can function. What we say all the time is that there are certain expenditures, and in particular there are expenditures on the financial expenditures for interest that since 2011 with 6 billion kuna come up to 10 billion kuna and that a certain cost of the EU means costing and national components and payments... you can no longer pay for the budget to continue cutting certain material expenditures and expenditures for employees because in part you will find that the system will no longer be able to function. And here we are saying that there is always, always, the adjustment, the adjustment that must be made through a certain period of time but certainly must be valorised by economic growth. Without economic growth all the time, we talk and this is actually said by the European Commission, and we can hardly have long-term public finances because over 5 years there is no specific magic wand and further structural reforms that are increasingly difficult and more difficult. After 5 years of recession, it certainly has its own implications for the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57096	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labourer Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57097	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Lalovac, deputy minister with associate. Well, what I'm going to do is I'm going to start at the end of what you said without economic growth, and we're going to tell the same stories all the time. It's not as big a problem in expenditures as the biggest problem is our income cuts. We always talk about the state budget and we said it last year and we said it when there were reports and when the laws of these previous governments were talked about how to cut something, how to cut it. And why are we now in a position to make up for this 18 billion missing by cutting? Because of the failure to do so first, no reforms were made at the beginning, as the Kukuriku coalition promised in the first six months and no conditions for economic growth were created. Today would have been a very different situation. For the sake of this law, no one is likely to question the good intentions of that law that we previously spoke of in the Law on Leasing, absolutely certain that we could talk and talk and decommit what they were threatening Croatian citizens about. So this law, as the Deputy Minister has said, brings four important points of resistance to what is most important, these are fiscal rules. The question is, will these rules be respected and fiscal practice will change? One of the biggest problems with this law, it seems to me that Mr. Hrg was talking about it only, is who's responsible for non-compliance with fiscal rules. What happens to the prime minister and what happens to ministers, what happens to the Minister of Finance when not even approximately what should be achieved is the election victory in the elections and when the whole country is in one financial chaos. You, Mr. Deputy Minister, spoke of long-term financial stability. It looks to me like SF long-term financial stability in a environment like this, in this atmosphere in these circumstances. Today, we have just received some information at the government's meeting when it comes to the 2014 budget and I am interested in what proposals will come to us at the assembly benches to solve this Gordian knot and how will we first compensate for this deficit that we need to make up for and what will be next year 2014, then what will we cut? So you should be the government, it's a priority to increase income, but not by tax premiums because it's the same as cutting the branch you're sitting on. You yourself admitted that cutting can't be completely thoroughd by growth. There's not a single government that saved its economy on the cuttings. When the opposition warned the authorities last year about that fact, then they refused to listen, then the mantra was quite different. However, it is certain that there is room in the Croatian budget where it can be cut, where it can be saved, where much more money can be saved, but reforms are needed to do so. Today, journalists asked me what reforms in the public administration, or cuts in public administration and local self-government will be made by the government of the Republic of Croatia in the coming period? They're not gonna make any. Why? Well, because you needed first analysis. Do you know how much Denmark has been preparing for the reform of local self-government? I think it's been seven years. And now, if we were short of money, we'd make that reform overnight. Many countries have come out of a deep crisis, many countries base development on an increased deficit of significantly greater than 3%. We're not going to compare ourselves to the American economy and American fiscal practices and American fiscal rules. But it is certain that we can compare ourselves with EU countries. I think there are only two countries that haven't penetrated those two magic lines that we've been set up with, that's 3% of gross domestic product and 60% public debt crossing. Everyone else is. But they built their economies on both the deficit and the increased public debt, increased industrial production, and thus emerged from the crisis. The biggest problem is that the Croatian government left the first promotion then left several models of Croatia leaving the crisis, i.e. an increase in revenue budgets or budget cuts. No model has been implemented, so it hasn't been consistent at any time. Someone has mentioned before whether the European Commission will accept what the government is going to offer. Finance Minister Mr. Linic said he did not believe that what Croatia would offer would be accepted by Brussels. We're aware of the crisis we're in, but I don't see a light on and we've announced a simple state of emergency in the finances at the state register. The cutting has a resonation when it makes sense when you know what it's cut for and what it's going to do with cutting. I hope that, if not today, Mr. Lalovac, probably in society with Mr. Linic, will explain to us what mechanisms, in what ways, what the government will do to bring us down not to 30% and 60%, but to sustainable frameworks, and how we will achieve that we continue not to depend on Brussels in the coming years, and that our finances are not run, the state finances from Brussels, but to really manage the fate of our country. One thing that's got eyes is the political responsibility that you've been talking about that hasn't been applied because it's true, it seems to me that you've said, political responsibility is determined in the elections, I think it's otherwise impossible. You can't force anyone to give you a mandate. The heads of public companies, companies run by either the state or local self-government are not impossible to change, and we also know how to human beings are human beings and how to place people in very responsible positions. The question is why responsibility for local self-government leaders and why not responsibility for the prime minister and minister. I would rather remain a political responsibility at the prime minister and ministers and that after that, you said to me Deputy Minister, that the budget should be based on reality, on real forecasts, that it would then bear political consensus and government, or prime minister, and that this government that does not base the forecasts in the state register or budget, would have to go away. So long as there are no political responsibilities, and you know that you have predicted entirely other indicators, especially for 2013 when you predicted growth, when everyone else predicted that it would be either the same state as it was in 2012 or there would be an even worse situation, how to trust this government that in 2014, what will offer us will be as you now predict growth somewhere around 1% when there is not one indicator at this time that the industry in Croatia will recover. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57098	Replica, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57099	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, you said that no one suspects the good intentions of this law. Well, I'm not going to agree with that statement of yours and the findings. If I don't already doubt good intentions, then I doubt credibility because if the local leaders in this part of the fiscal responsibility law are controlled by the Ministry of Finance, who goes in advance into violation in the final case of this bill, then I ask that question of credibility at all of this law and the implementation of it. As a local official, I have to say that we don't care at local level when we plan our budgets, when we look at budget executions, if we've violated the Fiscal Responsibility Act. It's not like it's the law that's been passed. There must have been a lot of reasons to bring it. Now, with this law, we're basically going into another sphere, we're adapting the laws of incompetence, and that's what I'm going to call it because you said they didn't cut costs, there's no sign of reform. There's a colleague, Vuksic, who has a sign of public administration reform, of course. So yesterday we were listening to the going of five regional centers, you think there's going to be a reduction in public administration, no, there's going to be an increase. Which is why, because of the cowardice. Because what everyone in Croatia knows is that public administration is too big, that the structure is not functional, that there is a lot of problems that no one will say publicly, and that is what someone who has received citizens' trust should do. Well, it would be good to see what the Economic Institute wrote, what it did in the analysis of public administration reform. I'm also interested in that, probably all of you and everyone here in the assembly and Croatian citizens. We just read the papers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57100	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57101	Dear colleague Hrg, what you said that we heard yesterday that there was a intention to reform public administration but this you said that public administration will probably increase, and it will not be reduced, it is then deforming public administration, not reforming public administration because it is clear that at this point the country with 4.5 million inhabitants, with so many employees and most unemployed people and that famous number of 400 thousand people who are not looking for a job at all. It is evident that all of these indicators that we know are talking about being a very, very messy country and that we have too much of this fragile, weak industry to finance, or real sector to finance. But what we need to fear is the right not to offer some tangible moves with the state budget for 2014 that could make a better and above all to the Croatian economy, meaning the creation of some frameworks and indications that the Government is going to seriously reform but not just the state administration, i.e. local self-government, 555 municipalities, cities and counties, means units of local self-government. It is absolutely certain that there is too much burden on the back of taxpayers and that it will not survive and that I fully agree with you it is cowardice.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57102	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57103	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, you said what happens to ministers, Prime Minister in case the budget is not implemented. Well, this law has just been passed because of it. I can tell you with certainty, because I have proposed it to this House. Therefore, it was adopted that those who spend the budget, who carry out the budget, are disciplined. And someone if when the budget is adopted in this House of Highs simply without the permission of the Prime Minister who proposes then, through the Ministry of Finance, the budget rebalancing must not be spent on a lack of surplus. It was the meaning of this law, not because it was brought about by this or that. But you know what the deep meaning of it all is that whoever gets so much and so much money as the head of a particular body that is a budget user, if he sees that he can't satisfy that money, what he needs to do is go into reform because only reforms can come into those frames. That was the point. However, the non-implementation of this law, the not knowing of everything, is guilty of this, it is the one we have the situation that we fiscal responsibility law have no chance of implementing in 2017, let alone in 2013, 2014. So it's, it's, it's known why the law was passed. Because many of these things that have been defined were defined by the Budget Law, and many have spoken and what do you need this law for? So because this law, if you look at the Penal Codes, also withdraws certain criminal responsibilities for those who do not adhere. Because the elemental question is being asked. Take a look at the budget rebalance of this current one. So, some things we warned that would happen. The parliament adopted the budget and someone overstepped those amounts. Who gave him the right to overstep those amounts? Did he get permission from the Prime Minister? It's not. Did he get permission from the President of the Parliament? It's not. Well, then how could he do it? And the budget rebalancing is the most appropriate picture of how the Fiscal Responsibility Act does not apply. But since the moment the SDP passed the law was against this law, it's no wonder they're breaking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57104	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57105	Well, the thing is, what happens to ministers, what happens to the Prime Minister when the law is broken, when a state budget doesn't happen like you said. Yes, and the question is, in fact, it is one of the essential issues of who gives both the Ministers and the Prime Minister the right to exceed the state budget, i.e. the costs of borrowing several generations of the future and not offering a single solution so that we can bring state finances into line. It is a fundamental issue of responsibility and those political ones, because what is the purpose of having a law and not respecting that law. That's what I often talk about here in the Parliament. We also have excellent legal solutions. That means the Parliament is doing a good job. However, practice is far from what is written in those laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57106	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57107	Thank you very much. Namely, in your debate, you said the problem was not expenditure but income cuts. The problem is about policymaking, the problem is that the government had a Plan 21 and of that Plan 21 will not be Plan 21 but Plan 70. The 70 billion deficits plan in these 4 years, and that is exactly what is seen through the policies and guidelines of the Government in the period from 2014-2016 and the plan values. Therefore, you also said in your debate that you were expecting a reaction from Brussels. Well, we're not as dependent on Brussels as we are on the Republic of Croatia on banks. And we estimate that the European Commission and Brussels will no longer seek Croatia's economic strategies but the only debt recovery strategy. Because the deficit planned for the next four-year period certainly does not contribute to what the European Commission expects from the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, there is no reform, the plan size for the next period is both the increase in both the revenue and expenditure sides which is unrealistic. This means a new task of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on both domestic and foreign markets means further deepening of the crisis in the Republic of Croatia means fleeing structural reforms, running from incurring to problems which are essential and primarily related to the expenditure side of the budget, and the income will result precisely through credit responsibilities as it did this year. Because the deficit of the Republic of Croatia in the first six months is bigger than the planned size for the whole year, and the planned size was about 10 billion. It's 11200 for the first six months, and we estimate it will be 17 billion this year, next year 19, maybe 20 in two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57108	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57109	Dear colleague Bubalo, that if income is a debt, then new loans if we take that into account are actually new, new expenditures. These are new minuses, new burdens for future generations. The expenditure's growing, income's dropping. What you said has no structural reforms, no structural reform has happened. The most obvious example is in health care. One of the first measures taken by this government was the reduction of the health contribution by two index points with the claim that there is enough money in health care, it should only be redistributed, that by saving, or what the economy will be relieved to open new jobs then we are Labourists, my colleague Vuljanic said he would be burned publicly at Ban Jelačić's Square if one worker is hired to go to the expense of these two index points which are reduced health contributions. We only have more and more unemployed. So long as we don't start hiring, so long as we don't start producing, so long as we're dependent on imports, so long as our budgets are gonna be sad books and recorded political documents that prove that the government doesn't keep what it promised.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57110	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57111	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, your colleague Vuksic spoke about cuttings, and in that sense, you expressed doubts that it would contribute to the improvement, and on the medical side, the same thing when cutting that sick tissue, of course, would hurt most of the healthy tissue. But you asked one question who to cut? That was a key question, and I'm sure everyone will find an argument as to why not him. But I know one area I hold quite well where it was cut that could be cut. It's in agriculture. It was cut that could be cut. But under these circumstances they ask at least to be reported on time. This was an obligation by May 31st, until today they were not informed of their opportunities and rights so that they could, not simply live in suspense, so that they could plan production. It's not a job that can just be so simple and not be in debt without cover and in a further way so as to burden their business. Another thing I noticed you talking about local self-government. Also, I from the middle of the electoral unit and the county from which I come all units of local self-government show the meaning of their existence, they have made and improved the quality of life and are certainly imposed on them additional burdens of decentralised obligations but of course without funds. In these circumstances, as well as tax-related ones, the same reduced resources are certainly also needed to help local self-government to create equal living conditions for all its citizens in each area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57112	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57113	Dear colleague Milinkovic, here I am going from the end of your line. You said all units of local self-government confirmed their purpose in your midst. I'm talking about all of Croatia, you know well that there are local units in which they don't have income even enough to support the officials who are employed in them. There is a controversy about whether or not some claim should be kept and those local units because they are some developmental element I fully doubt. Because if they're not self-sustainable, how can they be a developmental element? Therefore, the government was to start to show and start a reform of local self-government that perhaps the other government would have just finished. So this should not be done, it should be well assessed and respected and political moments, economic moments, specificities of Croatia. So it's a long-term job. As is also a long-term business of reforming public administration because it is necessary to record the state of public administration and to say what we want in which segment of public administration where there is surplus, where there is no surplus. What do we do, how do we take care of all these people? Shall we requalify them, etc. A lot of jobs, but we're talking about all these problems and the problems you've been talking about. We often talk about agriculture, about cutting. The incentives that have been reduced that they have yielded results, means the reduction, that agricultural production is increased and that it has been distributed more evenly then we would say that it has been done well, but agricultural production as well as other declines in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57114	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57115	Thank you. Well, my colleague Vuksic, in one part of it, I'd be overreaching myself, and I think fiscal responsibility is necessary at all levels from the state level to the level of the last municipality. But in one circle, we all, in fact, fool ourselves by starting with the state... the state budget installs growth projections and on this basis the budget, and it knows that no growth will be. The county I live in is projecting 15 million kuna of state aid into my budget, and the state is putting 5.5 million kuna into its budget and implementing them. I mean, we can't read each other's budgets. So then comes a city that has a utility company of 2.8 million kuna and spends all 2.8 in the first six months. So then comes a city with a budget of 21 million kuna, and a realisation of the six-month budget of 2.4 million kuna and 13%, respectively. So, from the beginning to the bottom, we actually unrealize our budgets, unrealize them, spill them over, manipulate the municipalities to the very state, and in that happy region we actually fool, we don't know exactly who they're lying to, we're all just accumulating public debt. From the initial municipality to the Republic of Croatia. And no one is actually willing to face that responsibility, which has been de facto as fiscal responsibility since 2010, left a dead letter on paper regardless of the criminal provisions that existed. So what's the answer now? So if this fiscal responsibility really were to be... anyone would have to somehow come to terms with those real frameworks in which they exist, but nobody's ready to do that. But the state, by its example, regardless of the good wishes it shows in these two years, shows that it is not herself ready to set an example.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57116	Thank you very much. Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57117	That I agree with my colleague Djurovic, no one is ready for reality, and first, the government is not ready for reality. I think the state mirrored the units of local self-government as they see the presidents of the municipalities then the mayors, when they see how the state behaves and they act that way. I agree with you, many budgets of local self-government units are not based on growth, are based not on real real real income, but are based on some fictions. But forgive me, the fiction is also based on this 2012 budget that was warned that it would be 2013, many economists said it would be harder, but the government of the Republic of Croatia was seeing growth. There's no such thing as growth. So what happened now? Is anyone responsible? They don't even admit mistakes. If only mistakes were admitted and said yes, we were wrong about that and that. It is often spoken here in the Parliament when the ministers come to us and when the prime minister comes, it happens. One of the sentences yesterday in Prime Minister Milanovic's current watch was, the situation is as it is. But why is the condition the way it is? Just because someone doesn't know how to do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57118	Now we'll have a break by 3:00, and the first in line will be a representative of the SDP club. Party at 13.27 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57119	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, Hrvoje Nekic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57120	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The basis or essence of why this law has been adopted has been greater control and supervision of budget spending, or greater control of budget users, in order to ensure transparency of the entire system. The aim of this law is to ensure and maintain fiscal responsibility, transparency and medium-term and long-term sustainability of public finances. That objective is achieved by establishing fiscal rules and by strengthening the rules for ensuring fiscal responsibility. The law defines a rule whereby the total expenditure of the general budget expressed in gross domestic product must be reduced annually by at least 1% by the time the primary fiscal balance of the general budget in the nominal amount is zero or positive. The change in the rules of approach is given that the existing rule does not take into account the existence of economic cycles and, in the prevailing conditions of decreasing economic growth, this rule adds to the potential for growth. The additional reason for amending the rules is by harmonising with EU legislation relating to the new framework for the coordination and supervision of Member States' economic policies, aimed at strengthening the implementation of the Stability and Growth Pact. Furthermore, this draft law replaces the current fiscal rule with a new one which allows certain anti-cyclical action of fiscal policy i.e. foster economic growth in recession conditions and vice versa, while at the same time in line with the governance framework, economic policy in the EU. The structural balance expressed in GDP will be achieved according to the adjustment plan in order to achieve the medium-term budgetary objective, so the budget deficit must not be 3% of GDP and public debt must not exceed 60% of GDP, with the growth of general budget expenditure not exceeding the reference potential GDP growth rate established by the European Commission itself. This proposal also introduces an obligation to make a declaration of fiscal responsibility or to apply the law to companies owned by the Republic of Croatia or one or more units of local and regional (regional) self-government and other legal persons to whom the founder of the Republic of Croatia or one or more units is local and regional (regional) self-government. The accession of the EU Republic of Croatia opens up opportunities for the use of funds from the European Union funds, and the most potential beneficiaries of these funds are mentioned above by companies and other legal entities. Given the obligations to be met before and when using EU funds, the potential beneficiaries of EU funds are required to build a transparent system of financial management and of course control. Furthermore, part of the companies mentioned above and other legal entities, in particular at local and regional level, receive significant funding from the competent budget. The introduction of a declaration of fiscal responsibility to the competent ministry or unit of local and regional (regional) self-government from the level of this user group strengthens the lines of responsibility towards the competent minister, mayor, mayor or chief. Declarations of fiscal responsibility shall become instruments of assessment of the quality of the functioning of the internal control system established by the head of a company or other legal person in order to ensure legal and meaningful use of the funds. This law proposes erasing the provision of political responsibility, i.e. replacing the same criminal provisions or criminal liability, which is in accordance with the rules relating to infringements in general, and bearing in mind the gravity and consequences resulting from the conduct of those offences. The proposed amendments highlight the credibility of the declarations of fiscal responsibility, i.e. to strengthen the system of responsibility in the process of giving, as well as the control of the declarations of fiscal responsibility given by the leaders. Before I finished my presentation, he would draw attention once again to the essence of this law, so with what I said earlier, the purpose of this law was to control and monitor the spending of budget money and what might be the most important assurance of the transparency of the entire system. From what I said earlier, the SDP club will support this law in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57121	Thank you. We have a single replica reported. My colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I hope you don't believe that. Because it's exactly the opposite of what you're saying, you're talking about credibility, you're talking about strengthening the system of responsibility, you're talking about it as being an amendment to this law. The fact is, the situation is completely different. Here credibility is being violated because at the state level it is being obtained to say the privileges that one who breaks the law and now adapts himself because it violates it, controls those at lower levels. There's credibility. It's incomprehensible. Strengthening the system of responsibility, in which part you have read strengthening the system of responsibility in this bill, I cannot find it anywhere. I see that here responsibility is removed that even in the name of the law it would be good to put, erase the word responsibility. Because politician, I repeat it here today, but we all repeat it all the time so everyone has to repeat their own to maybe get in the ears better, is political responsibility. There is no greater responsibility for whoever is exposed to the elections, who is exposed to the public than political responsibility so that I do not agree absolutely with you in what you have said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57123	The replica corresponds to a colleague of Hrvoja Neklic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57124	... The political responsibility will first and foremost be visible in the next parliamentary elections. [[Specially enabled.]] Indeed, the criticisms that come from your side all this time speak of it as if we had a magic wand to get this country out of the crisis overnight. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia have given us confidence, have given us confidence in a term of four years. So we have a two-year term and in 2 years we will see what our political responsibility will be. This is all that's been done so far, this isn't reform yet. These are actually only debt settlements so that they can create preconditions for the growth of the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57125	We're continuing the club debate. I call on my colleague, Joza Radosh, for a pay phone to explain to us the attitudes of the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It's certainly a good thing we have a fiscal responsibility law. There is an open question and I will talk a little bit more about it, and there has already been a speech to the extent that such a law can be applied and whether this law depends on a series of external circumstances which, of course, make it almost impossible to apply it, and that is why it is logical, and that is all in line with the relevant European Union documents, even if it is not clear to me personally how it will be implemented but it is very clear to me that some of the external factors that we here call cyclic economic effects must be counted upon when the very strict conditions of fiscal responsibility are met because it can be a burden that is very difficult to bear. Of course, and it must be very strictly prescribed. I do not know, therefore, the details of the European Union documents that speak about it and which make it possible, but of course the application of that provision to exclude cyclic economic effects from the structural balance should certainly be very well placed so that it would not actually be possible to avoid the application of the provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, but I certainly support it because it is therefore in line with the situation we are in, and of course it is in line with the documents of the European Union. Of course, there are also one-off and temporary measures as well as all possible other non-cyclical but extraordinary events that can prevent or make it impossible for the country to apply the rules of fiscal responsibility. But, of course, this criterion, this impact of such measures must be very strictly prescribed because it also allows, opens up space that in fact this law on the fiscal responsibility of the public sector is being poorly applied or not applied. Of course, it should also be supported that fiscal rules, i.e. fiscal liability, concern all public policy factors, therefore both companies and units of local self-government and companies owned by them, because all those units have entered into the general debt of the state, enter into that total balance or deficit as we call it most often and it is logical that these rules of fiscal responsibility apply to them, therefore to companies owned by a state or owned by units of local self-government. It is therefore an important paper of these amendments and additions to the law. We fully support erasing the provisions on political responsibility because two things are mixed in the existing provisions of the law. One is the administrative procedure, the decision of the competent authority, and the other is the political procedure. And it is logical that poor administrative treatment finds its sanctions in the administrative procedure, i.e. in the conduct of the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance, and political responsibility follows or does not follow. But it is not good that the decision of the administrative body, which in these complicated rules can also be arbitrary, can be used to launch a political responsibility for someone who can, of course, be politically motivated and not necessarily based on the strictest criteria because it is very difficult to set even when there are good intentions. So in this sense, I support this bill, but as it is a very delicate law, then a series of questions concerning this law should also be asked of course. There was a talk here about why a law was passed that, in the opinion of a colleague, could not be implemented. So I remind you that this law was passed on 23.11.2010, and then it would be logical to apply it in 2011. However, the country's deficit in 2011 compared to 2010 is -4.3 and 4.3%, respectively, compared to 4.4 in our way of calculating. So based on our parameters. There is, of course, a second calculation based on European statistical methods which, of course, makes this thing worse but it is a question of where the debt here was written about. But therefore, if this exception did not fall by 1% as the law predicted, but the deficit remained more or less at the same level because this law and so the rapid collapse of the deficit absolutely is not easy to make. And so I wonder why you're passing a law that you won't be able to apply when those same questions that apply the same law didn't apply in some of the same or similar objective circumstances. What raises other issues related to this law and should certainly be discussed a little more in detail, for example, the medium-term plan for amending the law, regulations and other acts. So a mid-term assessment of how much a law will affect the application of this law. It's a very demanding provision. First of all, we do not have a clear plan for the adoption of laws, regulations and, in particular, underlegal acts, and it is particularly difficult to expect that the mechanisms for assessing the impact of these laws are rapidly created, as this law provides for the financial stability of the state, i.e. fiscal responsibility, as this law says. This mechanism should exist, but so far we have not been able to set up a credible application plan to amend our laws and regulations in the medium term, so for three or five years. The question is, what does that mean, and especially their financial assessment, given the demands this law makes. But I support that provision being introduced into the law and that we move gradually towards ensuring, therefore, the plan of our legislative and sub-legislative activities. And the impact of this legislative activity on the budget of the state, i.e. the units of local self-government or public enterprises. At least I'm saying it's going to be a very demanding mechanism. The issue of fiscal responsibility, i.e. the fiscal rule by which the deficit each year must fall by 1% of the gross social product until it reaches not only minus three but zero cannot be an independent turn of public debt. Public debt is likely to include these cyclic economic disorders, but according to the 2010 National Statistics Institute, the consolidated debt of the general state of the Republic of Croatia amounted to 145 billion kuna, and in 2012 it was clearly around the end of the year at 183 billion kuna, which is a difference of around 40 billion kuna. And if you assume, therefore, it is one approximation that it is a debt that returns to 10 annuities, of course, depends on dynamics, it can't be spoken like that, but for the purposes of assessing such an assumption, then 4 billion a year more returns in 2010, 12 and 13 than in 2010, and the situation for 2014 will be worse. So you've already eaten that 1% deficit reduction by having to pay back 4 billion. So more than 1% of the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia because you have increased public debt. It's important stuff. There's no element here. It is likely, of course, in public debt balances which are then of course the same in the 60 percent criteria. But that's not in this law. This shows how complex this law is and it is certainly good that this law goes in two readings, this law with these amendments needs the Republic of Croatia. This law will not be easy to implement at least not in the first years of its implementation, but it is certainly good that in terms of fiscal responsibility we also respect the actual circumstances in which the state is located but we are also building further mechanisms that fiscal responsibility at national and local level should be implemented and respected. Because of all this, expecting that in the discussions that will follow and of course until the second reading of the law we will get answers to some of the questions that are raised here, not only by the Club of HNS Representatives, the HNS Club will support this proposal in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57127	We're moving on to replicas. First, my colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57128	Thank you very much. A fellow Radoš with most of your exposure would agree and that is, that your debate is deep and quite well and structured and explained. But here you spoke in the first part of your presentation about so-called. political responsibility and so on. I'd like to give responsibility to the administration. Therefore, those who sign a declaration of fiscal responsibility under this law are the leaders, I will not list which ones you have listed, which are legally, purposely and purposely use the funds. Now, the provisions provided for in Article 11 here say that fines punish those from 5 to 25 thousand kuna. Therefore, a leader who does not adhere to this law will be punished, and you did not say much about political responsibility, so I would like to ask you in some way what this means and what political responsibility will mean in the future. It is not defined here by this new part of the law, or by amendments to the law, so unless we change the Law on Local Self-Government, or elections for local self-government, it is difficult to expect here to offer resignation or to resign or anything else. So what would be political responsibility actually seems to me to be a bit of an illusion, apart from choices and citizens who will decide whether to.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57129	The replica matches Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57130	Col. Grubisic's current law says that in cases where it is established that he is the head of the budget and extra- budget user of the state breach the provisions of this law, he will place his mandate to carry out his duties at his disposal, including the mayor's election mandate and the municipal chief. And the question is how do you determine it? It will not be easy for the competent inspectors or the competent authorities to establish that something is in conformity with the law or not. These rules won't be quite so crystal clear and exact and there's a possibility of a mistake. But, of course, the criminal liability will also pull political responsibility, but some of it is determined by the competent authorities, the most competent body is, of course, voters. But it may also be the mayor who will say to replace his head of a public enterprise or the same state-owned public enterprise. After that, if he does not, he too awaits political responsibility. I don't think it's a good thing to be chasing administrative responsibilities and political responsibilities. But behind this responsibility, political responsibility must also be followed in a developed society. But that should be given to those involved in the work, including voters who choose. Otherwise this is one of the few laws and it is only a new practice of the Croatian Parliament to punish officials if they do not do something, not just citizens. So far, in our transitional and final provisions, only citizens have been punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57131	New replica, colleague of Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57132	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Rados, in an existing law still in force on fiscal responsibility, it is said that the fiscal rule is that the share of expenditure in GDP has to be reduced by 1 structural point until the budget balance is achieved. This also means that in 2011 the share of the general government's expenditure in GDP is reduced if I am not deceived by the memory of some 0.9% of GDP. The reason why I ask why we are passing a law that is already clear that it will not be possible to respect is very simple, because today the Government has adopted a proposal for a state budget. The proposal for a state budget according to this accounting methodology prescribed by the Croatian law envisions an increase in deficits compared to last year. So we already know today, let's not pretend so much that we already know today that the budget that the government has proposed and sent us to Parliament will not be in accordance with this rule because the rule is simple. The law we are discussing today says the fiscal rule is laid down by the European Commission. And we give up this law of any kind on fiscal policy and say the level of deficits will be determined by a medium-term adjustment accepted by the European Commission. I cannot imagine, given all we know, on the obligations of the Member States that the European Commission would accept a budget that would result in an increase in deficits.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57133	Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57134	So, I was just talking about that at a time when it seems to me that you were responsible for keeping RH's finances that the deficit remained more or less the same. You're saying there's been a reduction in expenditure 0.9% but perhaps in more favourable conditions than it is now. It is much harder to reduce the share of expenditure in terms of falling income. So you set stricter criteria to the current administration, to the current government than you were able to set up yourself or to respect yourself, and I remind you that what I said about the debt of the general government in those two years with 2012 has grown by 40 billion kuna, and this year I fear that it has grown even by a few tens of billions of kunas, which makes respect for this law even more complicated and difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57135	Next replica of my colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Rados, you have mentioned here on several occasions that the extent to which the law will be applied and you have talked about the very strict conditions of fiscal responsibility in the EU, and it is a little bit now to be honest with me. We here ease fiscal responsibility by amending this law, while at the same time calling for stronger, stronger conditions of fiscal responsibility in the EU. I just don't feel like doing it with each other. You gave us a nice pre-debate as an introduction to the 2014 budget debate but frankly and realistically what it is so I'm not burdened with what was before, I wasn't there, so I'm clean and free in that part, the fact is that this is a law that practically adapts to the current state of finance in the Republic and it's not good. It is true that all those in the system from local self-government to companies and all others eventually add up to one total mass but it is not fair that one should be controlled in one way and that they do not respect the law. It's not credible, it's not okay. And what you've been saying about violations and political responsibility, so if someone is proven to have broken something and they're being punished and the politician is, I don't see the difference in that, it serves me as proof that he's done something wrong and that he has to bring sanctions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57137	The replica matches Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57138	You say that it is a matter of easing fiscal responsibility, but it is certainly not a political issue, not a political one, but a criminal responsibility, it is a question of assessing what it is or is not. I just believe that for this type of offence in conditions where the administrative body gives its right to not be well, it is not consistent to put political responsibility, and it can and should be realised in other ways by decisions of the competent authorities including the decisions of the voters, and should certainly be affected by that criminal liability which obviously will not be inaccessible to the public. The second mitigation of this law, and you call it by adjusting to the financial crisis, so that's the meaning of the law. The purpose of the law is to try to adapt to the real circumstances but to still be good, to be positive and to be enforceable. Well, we talked about it a few times, so we're not going to be making laws about it was one debate a few weeks ago here in the Parliament, which we're going to have on purpose or some documents that we're not going to respect on purpose. Well, it's better if you don't bring papers like that. And I expect that the application of exemptions due to these cyclic economic disorders, which is a relief, which is the mitigation of fiscal responsibility will be in line with the regulations and will not disturb the overall fiscal responsibility of the state but will only adapt it to the circumstances in which we live.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57139	And the last replica of a respected fellow vice president, Dom Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57140	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely fellow Radoš, of course I agree with your debate probably for the reason it's the first reading. In the part of the debate, it means the level to which this responsibility goes. As Head of Local Self-Government since the law entered into force in 2010, I have signed and stand behind a statement of fiscal responsibility, however, I have always had a certain dilemma. This is a positive thing that is now being extended outside the trading companies of extra-financial users, but just for the sake of the financial amounts that I will indicate I have one particular doubt. The pučko school cca 500 thousand kuna financed by the founder of the extra budget user, the community of sports associations 950 thousand kuna. Whether or not to install the Fiscal Responsibility Act and obtain the status of a particular association, which I say is a community made up of a number of sports companies. For which reason, of course, they are approved by the City Council's proposal, i.e. I, the procedure as mayor for the implementation of their programme, valorisation of the programme. However, reading Article 2 of the Explanation says who set up the president... in order to ensure in the work the law is intended, is crucial, meaningful and deliberate use of the funds. The Executive Board of that body shall adopt and make available the appropriations it receives from the budget. So here's as clean as I am immediately using as a suggestion to the deputy minister and team and to see if to what level and how part of fiscal responsibility can be reduced. If we're talking about fiscal responsibility, then I think it's our obligation to monitor every budget kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57141	Jozo Radoš answers to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57142	Comrade Batinić, your replica was two-component, so it was partly sent to me, while part of it was sent to the Minister of Finance, Deputy Minister of Finance. Of course he is more competent to answer that question, but in principle I see no reason why fiscal responsibility should not be applied to all levels. 500 thousand kuna for the city you run or 500 thousand kuna in absolute amount is not small public money, and if there are techniques to monitor the purpose of using that money and coordinating business and a small institution such as a mere school, which you are talking about with the rules of responsible spending of public money, then I do not see the principle of reasons not to do so, but, of course, the details of the application could be answered by a deputy finance minister who does not have the right to reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57143	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, a respected colleague, Martina Dalic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57144	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear Deputy Minister. Well, I didn't really mean to start my own exposure to this topic of political responsibility, but I'm actually going to take advantage of the opportunity to talk about it this much in the context of this law, so I'm going to start with that. The existing fiscal responsibility law foresees this famous political responsibility for the heads of state administration bodies. Let me explain the meaning of this political responsibility and how we see it at the HDZ club in the form of persons acting as Minister of Finance. The purpose of the provision and the existence of a provision on political responsibility in this law is to actually design and create a first-rate instrument for the Minister of Finance to help himself and ensure that his colleagues respect the budget gauges he has given them by adopting the state budget. Let us take the example of the rebalancing proposed by the government today. One of the reasons for this rebalancing is, for example, Breaking pension funds. This means that in the part of the Labour Minister's section there is a breakthrough in budgetary expenditures and that the Minister of Labour should consider and act to keep his expenditures within the framework of his budget, which means that in the process of making, designing and implementing the budget, or that he should clearly explain what the pension costs are and what the consequences of the adoption of provisions in part of the pension or must change the system in a way to adapt to existing financial resources. Or, of course, third, he has to face political responsibility for breaking his budget expenditures. The point is that there is a political responsibility that those who assume duties in part of public institutions are clearly motivated to take measures in their resolutions that are consistent with the financial stability of the total state because the financial stability of the state is not only the work of the finance minister. So this may be in defense and the benefit of the Ministry of Finance, but I think by eradicating this provision, it sends an extremely bad message to the general public that it is giving up the political responsibility of elected officials for the resolutions and jobs that they are carrying out, but I think it is actually taking on a powerful instrument here that could have acted on those who are actually important specifics of the size of government expenditures, which are users, these are all other ministries except the Ministry of Finance. And I think that removing this provision will have bad consequences for the possibility and the ability of the Ministry of Finance to maintain the financial stability of the budget. It's not the only and the only part, of course, it's not the only part of everything the Ministry of Finance has to do, there's a lot of other things. But the point of our fiscal problem is that those who spend state resources, the resolutions that cover different expenditures were not actually motivated enough to start and advocate reforms that will stabilise these expenditures. That's what we talk a lot about here, that's what we say the government has in some way missed the overall direction of economic policy because it has concentrated on taxes and not enough or not enough on structural reforms that would stabilise expenditures. And now the Ministry of Finance says the situation is what it is, so let's remove this nominal instrument that could help us push and motivate other government members to promote and argue reforms on their own. I therefore feel the same as the Croatian Democratic Community club that, in light of the opening of the procedure for preventing excessive deficits in the light of these reforms that are constantly announced and which may now be launched under the pressure of the European Commission, we are erasing in fact such a provision. Secondly, what I would like to stress was that this law transposes, among other things, the directive adopted in 2011 in the context of strengthening financial and fiscal discipline in the EU Member States. I would like to deny you and we hold that it is not true that the directive is being transposed, because this directive is not being transposed in the way the directive is prescribed, quite the opposite. In its fourth chapter, the directive says and requires that a Member State must have a numerical fiscal rule and that this numerical fiscal rule can be specific to each country. That's why there's a list. This right here is a list of the different fiscal rules applied by the Member States and which are a wave of numerical rules. This means that it has some number, it has some goal of how and how one of the fiscal sizes is managed, the expenditures that we have now, the deficit, some important part of the expenditure. All of this proposal for this law is in fact ignored and it is said that the Croatian fiscal rule will be a structural balance that will be set by the adjustment plan to achieve the medium-term budgetary objective. The medium-term budgetary objective and adjustment plan are determined by the EU Council and the potential GDP growth rate is determined by the European Commission. We are therefore passing a law saying the fiscal rule is what the European Commission determines. This is not, however, the meaning of the directive. The purpose of the directive is that the state has its own numerically specific rule which will, of course, allow fiscal policy to be guided in a manner consistent with the requirements that are in front of the Member State, the Stability and Growth Pact, the European Semester and everything that stands before us. Therefore, we can only speculate today by adopting and discussing this law, and we can only speculate on which direction fiscal policy might be. We still don't know anything from this law, and we won't know which direction of fiscal policy the Croatian government wants, which the Croatian government proposes and which Croatian government sees as the direction of fiscal policy that will contribute to the recovery of the Croatian economy. We know that the government is proposing a greater deficit than it was last year, and this year it was 6 billion more than the original plan. And that's why we hold that this rule and this law is inconclusive and that, in fact, the government itself does not intend to respect it because it has adopted a budget which, which can be assumed to be not in line with this rule, which is that it wants to, that the deficit will be on the path of achieving the medium-term budgetary objective. What is the medium-term budgetary objective? Otherwise, European regulations and what Croatia will face require that countries that have an excessive deficit reduce the deficit annually by at least 0.5% of GDP. It's already some kind of number. But even that number, which is also an integral part of some European regulation, we do not find in this law. Therefore, this law is certainly the relaxation of the existing rules of fiscal responsibility, and this law is based on a structural deficit that depends on cyclical conditions, and I think that this can be a logical direction of thinking. But the law doesn't define in any way what the rule is, which is the number. If the government gives up managing a fiscal rule based on expenditure, which was clearly based on expenditure as a numerical goal because it cannot achieve this numerical goal, then at least it would be minimally correct to propose another numerical goal that it is thought can be achieved and that this second goal leads Croatian public finances towards fiscal stability and a more stable fiscal situation than is the case today. Of course, it is a special discussion why and why the Government cannot comply with the rules introduced in 2010, although I think the answer is unfortunately simple. The answer is precisely that the government did not actually recognise the message of the existing Fiscal Responsibility Act, which was to undertake structural reforms, action on the expenditure side which would also encourage economic growth. Thirdly, it is worth noting, and what is not spoken of in this law, and is an integral part of fiscal responsibility, is the issue of determining the position of the fiscal council. Even the existing law does not foresee the existence of fiscal advice. That's a good point. However, the fiscal council was founded on the basis of the Government Act with the aim of regulating its position in the first amendment of the Law on fiscal responsibility and legal regulation. And it was an integral part of the programme with the World Bank and the structural adjustment loan that Croatia received in 2011. A fiscal council was established, and further strengthening of its role and position should be done during the first subsequent amendments to the law. It is the practice of the EU Member State to have a clearly positioned and independent fiscal council, a advice that is independent of the Ministry of Finance. And it's an integral part of this existing directive. There is no word on the position of fiscal council in this proposal, which concludes that the possible reason is that the Ministry of Finance may not be satisfied with the work of the fiscal council which, however many of its reports have been hidden on the website of the Ministry of Finance which has been known to be both critical and critical according to the direction of the fiscal policy that the Government is conducting and implemented. Finally, the directive also prescribes the need to publish fiscal data. It has also failed to regulate this law because the directive clearly states how and within what deadlines the Ministry of Finance should publish fiscal data. I don't think there are any at this point and some obstacles because as far as I've been following in the last few months, the Ministry of Finance has been publishing somehow the last two, three months of data in those deadlines. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Stazic: Bring the end.]] Therefore, I think that, apart from the fact that the government is giving up on the existing rule and is questioning real responsibility and the concept of responsibility in the fiscal sphere, there are a number of bad solutions that make it clear whether this law is actually about reducing fiscal responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57145	We're moving on to replicas. The first one will be carried out by a colleague, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57146	Thank you very much. Fellow Dalic, therefore, unfortunately one concrete debate is going slowly again into political waters and politicizing, but there is one definition in this moving law but which was adopted for a clear reason, which is political responsibility. Because simply since the budget is adopted, no matter what level it is taken, every Head of the Budgetary user is obliged to stick to what he's got. If he is unable to implement his programme then he must notify before sending the budget to the Prime Minister's Assembly and say it cannot be done because of that and that, but the excessive position cannot, or at some point when he sees that the position is exceeded, informing the Prime Minister and asking for budget rebalancing. But what is the key thing at this point and what the idea was when this bill was passed was that budget users were encouraged by structural reforms. It's simply to force them to design the work and functioning of a body whose head is in the quota of those funds they've received. Only because of that. Again, something that is clearly defined is being pushed into some kind of political waters and into some sort of general state. However, if we will not accept the responsibility of those who spend taxpayers' money, which if they are unable to keep the set frameworks, then they must either resign or offer the reforms they once did, are not at all beautiful and politically ugly but that is the only way to keep the budget in the frames. If you don't do this, what happened to the government today with the rebalancing budget for 2013 where the deficit is increasing by 60%. You colleagues and colleagues of the Fiscal Responsibility Act have today had practical application in the government at the point of the agenda of the 2013 budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57147	The replica matches a colleague of Martin Dalic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57148	Thank you very much. Well, exactly what you have stated is that the purpose of political responsibility in the existing law is to motivate all those who are the leaders of different state bodies, ministers and all others to move within the financial frameworks set. Now this is no longer necessary and the idea is actually realized that any of those who spend budget money can spend that money according to one's own agenda, and responsibility will be borne by someone else. I therefore think that, in fact, by eradicating this provision and given that this law has been sent by the Government to us that by eradicating this provision, the Prime Minister did not actually notice and did not realise which instrument was denied in the coordination of the work of his ministries. Therefore, this law also reaffirms once again that the government expects to implement fiscal consolidation only through the instruments of the Ministry of Finance, and we know what they are. They're repressive, they're tax-based and everyone else can wait for a better time. Unfortunately, that price is paid by the entire state and its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57149	The second line is a colleague of Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57150	You spoke about how the competent official, minister or director should in time notice that there are difficulties in the sustainability of the HZMO budget or in total, and should know that the pension cost in the Republic of Croatia is 35 billion kuna as you know, and that only 20 billion kuna are collected from the pension contribution, so I am still a bit mild. So 15 billion kunas must go from tax revenues or from the rest of the Republic of Croatia's budget and of course it's easy to claim what you say. In principle, I fully agree with you. Anyone responsible for the functioning of an institution should first, in time, adhere to the budgetary frameworks, and then warn in time if they see that this is not going in the right direction. And whoever planned the budget was obviously planning under the very high burdens of such disproportionateness within the pension system plus a large debt and of course that ambitious planning can sometimes lead to a lack of fulfillment of what the plan is. So I think you're too strict in that sense, but I finally agree with you. In the orderly state and orderly planning it should therefore be respected or the responsibility must be borne. Whether she's a criminal or political, that's the subject I think is not the most important issue for this issue we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57151	The replica matches a colleague of Martin Dalic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57152	Well, my colleague, Radoš, I am now going to say these arguments in a very plastic, clear, and I hope everyone understands the way. This political responsibility, specifically in the case of the Pension Insurance and Pensions Office, actually means that it cannot be accepted and held accountablely to interpret the measure that the current economic and financial situation allows for the indexation of pensions. So when we talk about the transition between 2011 and 2012, one of the measures that remained available was the freezing measure of indexation and there was no indexation of pensions. The government said no, no, we'll index it won't cost anything. And to index that, then we're going to raise those pensioners' taxes. Now this political responsibility in the Fiscal Responsibility Act meant that the head of that pension authority must say we can't introduce a pension indexation because I can't fit that indexation into the budget frameworks you gave me. We need to find another combination of economic policy measures that will allow the pension budgetary frameworks to be respected. Because we have a situation today that the mass of pensions is about a billion and a half kuna than it was in 2011, each of the pensioners got about 20 kunas more pensions, the aggregate costs are high, taxes are increased and the result is a greater deficit combined. And by applying this law, everything could have been solved only if the situation had been more realistic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57153	Third replica of counterpart Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57154	Thank you very much, Vice President. We are talking today about the Law on Fiscal Responsibility, as well as political responsibility. I must admit that for two years I have failed to meet neither fiscal nor political responsibility with any minister in this government, any responsibility. They just don't get caught, they don't feel responsible for anything. So why should he do according to the fiscal rules. Well we remember the government from 2000 to 2003 then was the government every ministry had its own account, each minister was fiscally responsible for himself. How it worked and how it ended we know, but it's always said that some others are bad. When we see these facts that appear to us today, the budget for next year, the rebalance of the current budget, there is absolutely no responsibility at all. Those reins we had that at least seemed to have them in our hands they were fired. Look at the budgets of the ministries most of them have bigger spending sides than they've had so far, and to God's sake we're saving. Where's the responsibility? It doesn't exist. Do what you want. Under these laws it has always been discussed, one who breaks the fiscal rule or that responsibility should be given a mandate at that time. Today, after the budget rebalance, we would have lost 3 or 4 ministers if I understood that correctly. The education minister who broke into the pay items, the police, I don't know, you said Minister Mrsic they should all put mandates on the table today. But there's no responsibility. Why? Can we spend as much as we want? And when I hear that baby food is now growing to 13% now, and the paper is 5% clear on where we're going. To get the baby food from zero in two years to 13%, and the paper from 10 to 5. I'm afraid for the Croatian future.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57155	I would like to inform the representatives of the Croatian Parliament that members of the Klapa of the Croatian Navy are on the right hand side of our gallery. Juraj who best promote the Republic of Croatia and its cultural heritage worldwide. Please welcome them with a round of applause. /Applause There's noise in the hall. [[And now we'll hear the answer to the replica of the esteemed colleague Martina Dalic. .../]] I'm afraid they won't be up to a song...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57156	Dear fellow Boric, so all of what you have stated actually points to a deeper problem, which is that the current government seems to be any problem facing and any obstacle facing is trying to solve the principle of ha well, if that may not be in accordance with any of the laws then we will adapt the law. And we have seen such examples already much in this mandate starting from the first day of the Assembly when we changed the laws for the purposes of the appointment of certain ministers so that they could carry out these ministerial duties. Therefore, it is unlikely that our ministers did not feel the need to appeal to the current law and indicate during the year when they saw that their budget items would break through and instruct the Prime Minister, we are working in accordance with and threatening to violate one of the Croatian laws, the Law on Fiscal Responsibility. We all have to do something together. Such obvious talks in Croatia are not being conducted, there are obvious discussions of other content and how to adapt the legislative framework to those governmental procedures and governmental visions. And, of course, that goes on and on and on and on, and we are generally characterized and described as a country of low legal certainty because it's much easier to adapt the rules to itself than to ourselves and ultimately confirms this rebalancing, as well as the budget for next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57157	The last line is the esteemed vice president of Dom Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57158	Thank you, Vice President. Fellow Dalic, a sentence you said the government did not recognise the law that was passed in 2010 and you alluded to political responsibility. I just don't see why it bothered you so much. I personally trust the majority of us who are here, who are at regional local self-government levels, and we see as working for the common good, for the people, for the citizens, for the improvement of this country as a whole. I've been politically responsible for 10 years and I don't need to write in a law telling me I'm politically responsible. Fiscal responsibility, when you mentioned that this government did not recognise in 2010, I would be happy that the coalition government passed this law even if at the end of the term of office in 2003, I believe that I believe that these discussions on the fiscal responsibility law are for a reason you bring into context and budgets, rebalancing, etc., to make the financial situation in Croatia far better and better for all of us. What they certainly cannot accept as a thesis is the same in the sentence that the Government did not recognise the essence of the 2010 Act, although it recognized it, supported it and corrected and transferred fiscal responsibility both to lower levels and to users and to companies. I, in the debate or in the replica, touched the same thing, means every budget kuna must be known where it goes, why it goes, and who approves it. And notice, this law, of course, here I agree with you that it may not change much, and it certainly won't solve and suppress amnesia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57159	The replica matches the respected Martin Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57160	Dear colleague, when I say that the Government did not actually recognise the opportunity and message of this law that was passed in 2010, then I think that the Government did not recognise the economic fact that the approval of the Fiscal Responsibility Act can be achieved through the launch of reforms concerning expenditure foreign budgets. We talked a lot about it, we changed the replica here a lot, and after two years we come to the same conclusion, again today, here yesterday the prime minister speaks we need to approach fiscal consolidation and structural reforms. So, after two years of office, the Prime Minister now foggyly suggests that structural reforms must be approached, but not yet because the budget proposes an increase in deficits. And the fiscal responsibility law was, in fact, intended to create an additional motive and an additional incentive for these structural reforms to be launched and implemented and that, ultimately, in the wake of these structural reforms, we can say, we are going to start them among other things and because we have to respect the law. The government has shown neither the political will to launch these structural reforms nor the will to comply with the law. That's what I was talking about when I said the government didn't recognize the opportunity created by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57161	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, dear colleague Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57162	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with the assistant ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm not an economist, but here's my duty to speak and listen to all these discussions that were before here's my debate, so I'm going to try to sum up actually all of this and say what I think is important. In fact, when we look at this bill and amendments to the Fiscal Responsibility Act, it seems to me that the biggest problem is, in fact, the provision of the applicable law in Article 5 of this law which is now in force and which, therefore, is this Article 5 where fiscal rules are written, so in plurality. And then we have Article 5, which has 3 items and this first one seems most important to me, that the total expenditures already involved in the general budget expenditures are expressed by the share in the estimated gross domestic product will be reduced annually by at least one percentage point. In the new proposal, so the law that same Article 5 is actually sort of regulated by a slightly clouded thing, it seems to me a little bit of what I would say is a colloquial cosmetic, and now we have a adjustment of the rules and regulations of the new legislative proposal according to what is not happening, and it should happen and it is precisely structural reforms and fiscal consolidation, discipline and order. And now, in the assessment of the situation and the basic issues that are being regulated by this law, it says that EU Member States, which we have, therefore, have an obligation to adhere to the medium-term budgetary objective and that the lack of a general budget does not exceed 3% of the gross domestic product. So, the deficit below 3% we know that the European Commission has announced that Croatia's deficit is over 5%, and that public debt does not cross the 60% gross social product that we have also fulfilled thank God. A little bit, a little bit, here we are at 605. In order to achieve the medium-term budgetary objective for each Member State, the adjustment plan is prescribed, and a provision is introduced that the annual growth in general budget expenditure should not exceed the reference potential GDP growth rate, allowing exemptions for certain categories of expenditure. If a Member State exceeds the ceilings, the lack or public debt shall be driven by what is being triggered, which is the procedure for the fiscal criteria in the Stability and Growth Pact. Not only stability, not only fiscal stability and consolidation, but growth. Now, we are talking about the responsibility of all those involved, in fact, to a good extent, so also to companies and also to government ministers, local and regional leaders, i.e. regional self-government and company leaders owned and local and regional self-government and their responsibility. We've been talking about two kinds of responsibility here all afternoon. One is so-called. Administrative, fiscal, whatever we want, and the other one is political. The penalties, the sanctions here reads in Article 11 that a fine of 5 to 25000 kuna will be fined for violations of the head, etc. Well, that's a little more punishment than a fine for detachment of a belt in traffic, which is a little more punishment than a fine paid by a pedestrian if he crosses a street in a place where there's no zebra. What are those penalties for leaders from 5 to 25000? So we've had traffic penalties that are real European and Norwegian, not to say more, Swiss and here I'd say a little shyly we're introducing a definition of fines from 5 to 25000 kunas very surmisedly I'd say medically. The second is political responsibility, and in the old law it was written that it had to submit that it had said it had already been written, although it was said in cases where it was found that the head of the budget and extra- budget user of the unit of local and regional self-government violated the provisions of this law would place its mandate to carry out its duties at the disposal of the body he appointed and we are already here our minister and all the other ministers are planning a breakthrough, that deficit in the budget and the rest I said at the beginning. So the deficit in the general budget is greater than 3% and it is planned to be, it is clear that public debt will be over 60% of GDP. Well, maybe we should start now right now with the measures that this new law predicted political responsibility and come on 5 or 25000, we can cut to 19 that's from the health minister a happy number. And my lucky number is 19, let's say, thousands of kunas. On personal, pardoning political responsibility, Article 11 of the Law has been prescribed the way in which the leader is responsible for the violation of the provisions of the law. The law says political responsibility as an act or a component of personal responsibility. The political responsibility has been introduced by reason of the fact that amendments to the amendments to the provisions governing the appointment of the Head of Units of Locals will be made to that provision so as to make it possible to apply the resignations in practice. However, we are now watching this, but changes and additions have not been made. So what now? Where's the political responsibility now? She's gone, eaten by a cat, no political responsibility. What are we talking about? Here in the introduction says political responsibility, what political responsibility? Who was removed from the head of the local and regional self-government units? Which mayor has been removed, which mayor of the municipality? We have municipalities that also rated the audit as a negative assessment in Brod-Posavina County, none left, none changed, none offered to resign. What kind of political responsibility are we talking about here? Which minister offered here, he's getting a pension budget for I don't know a billion kuna, who offered to resign? What kind of political responsibility is that? What are we talking about here? Well, there's no responsibility, and that's the problem with this country that doesn't have those responsibilities. She's been gone for 20 years. I don't know which leader, forgive my colleague Batinić, every honor here and the Hrg has been here now, the management of your unit of local self-government and in your sense of responsibility for your city, is that what it seems to me, is it, so it's a great honor to all those who feel it, but those who don't feel it and who act like someone here has no responsibility, no one is carrying anything, no offer of resignations. And where? Let's count it in 20 years of Croatian state, no. That's why it's nice to read all this and it says here there's also the State Office for Business Audit and the Tax Administration that will evaluate this business, deliver an opinion, and then the head will answer to his superiors, so the head of the trading company in the town of Brod will answer to the mayor of the county mayor, etc. Who's the minister going to answer to? I guess to the Prime Minister, I don't know. Who's the Prime Minister going to answer to? He's telling the voters. So you've got cases where the mayor's indigestion or where he's got this kind of rush or where the propaganda was so that the mayor was corrupt and he won the election. Well, it's from Dubrovnik to Zagreb, huh, my God. Milan's fifth term has already been mayoral, and we know what's been said all along. I'm not saying it's proven, it's saying that someone wouldn't get me wrong. And be the mayor, thank God. Furthermore, the obligation to make a statement on the fiscal responsibility of all these leaders, I agree, let them give a statement, yes, but what does that mean in the extreme instance when I say there is no political responsibility? Not adopted says this, however, changes and additions have not been made. And? Nothing. And that's how it stays, and there's still no changes and additions. They're gone, aren't they, Deputy? There is no amendment to the law on the responsibility of these local, regional or regional leaders. And this is how it stands, and this law is for nothing. About him paying 5 or 25 grand, so that's it, that's a round of drinks sometimes in the dining room, a little more go two rounds. So, what it says is that the lines of responsibility to the competent minister, the mayor, the mayor, the statement of fiscal responsibility becomes an instrument of assessment of the quality of the functioning of the internal control system, etc. It's all beautifully written, but I'm afraid all of this together until these changes are made that it says very nicely that they're not there until then we're not going to go to the green branch. So then this law voted for him for or were abstentioned and against it was actually kind of like that anyway. That's what it looks like right now. God forbid it's any different, but I'm afraid this law that bears the code E, so P.Z.E. No. 499 a bears the code E only because this used six-pack containing 5 regulations and 1 directive for EU countries 28 plus those 2 for the euro area only but this is not really about us because we are not members of the euro area. I guess that's why it bears the E mark, but it's a real domestic Croatian law that actually adapted everything so that this government that doesn't implement structural reforms and has relatively little success in many fields that we see and by the number of unemployed and by everything else actually would be out of concern, whether out of ignorance, whether for any other reason I don't know it, but it won't help us much. That is why we will continue to consider how we will vote in connection with this legislative proposal. I'm still leaving 2.5 minutes for replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57163	We're moving on to replicas. The first one was applied for by a respected counterpart, Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57164	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, you said it was nice to read this text of the law, but I think anyone who knows little about the problem of the Financial Responsibility Act is not comfortable, must feel bad. And if you just listen to two things, then you'll change your mind and you won't be held back, but you won't be able to raise your hand to this law at all. You were talking about where something got lost in the meantime. This Fiscal Responsibility Act speaks in its article on macroeconomic budgetary projections and says paragraph 1 fiscal planning is based on real macroeconomic budgetary projections using the latest available information. And who actually assesses whether fiscal policy will be realistic and whether it is based on real indicators and whether it will focus on countercyclical action. Whose task is the consideration and assessment of the application of the fiscal rules laid down in the Law on fiscal liability of this law? The task of the fiscal committee. And he's gone. The fiscal board's gone. He was mentioned in the first version and defined himself in the first version but he was lost here. And why is he lost? Because the first version envisaged that the fiscal committee assessing whether fiscal policy was based on real indicators and on realistic assessments was envisaged as an independent working body in the Croatian Parliament, which is a logical place for the fiscal committee. But he's not here right now. In this law, we don't know where the fiscal committee belongs. He's hiding, or he's gone, or he's unnecessary, and we have to have him. The version amending the State Audit Act provides for it to be an integral part of the State Audit, which is unnatural.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57165	Thank you. The replica is matched by counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57166	Eh, fellow Maric, here's what I'm going to do against the law. We're going to be against convincing me, are we? And the fiscal committee also because it's not mentioned in this new bill seems to be lost in space so I don't know. That's why we'll be against this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57167	A new replica of counterpart Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57168	Thank you very much. In your debate, you spoke of fiscal responsibility and gave a lot of emphasis to local and regional self-government units and made some remarks about it. Well, I think this government has made an effort in two years to get her off these local self-governments to take down a certain responsibility, especially fiscally. Why? Because I don't think there's any of these 556 that we have, that she's made more income than she's planned for. You understand me, so they're freed from a certain portion of the income. They all have nominally much less calculations than they had. And the other thing in that segment is that there is always a rebalancing available. So when you make a budget, say at the end of the 11th or early 12th month, and you determine fiscal responsibility on the 31st of the year, you have almost 13 months to adjust everything you planned to your achievements. So when you finish that final account on 31.12. you can't determine that fiscal responsibility because you will always adapt everything as the Government has today with its budget adjusted some new moments to essentially who has broken its budget over the year for 500 million or a billion he when he adopts the budget rebalancing is put into some kind of fiscal responsibility. So these penalties or responsibilities in normal society would, for example, determine the responsibility of the judicial authorities. There are no judicial bodies here are some sort of misdemeanor let's say political and moral responsibilities. Now, we can always pay the wrongdoers, and we always hear it politically and morally, that determines the people at both local and national level, and there's always at least 2 or 4 years of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57169	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57170	If I didn't know what options you were coming from, then I'd say our people forget it relatively quickly, and then this political responsibility sometimes comes as a surprise in the elections because our people say a little quickly forgets. What they say is low memory, and quickly forgets. As far as 555 municipalities in the Republic of Croatia are concerned, many of them, in the light of the laws passed and where they have been somewhat reduced and their revenue side in the budget, many of the municipality's chiefs are shouting or should I say coloquially, do not help us with how this central government is helping us today. So through the rebalancing that you were talking about in your replica, and in fact the imbalance can all be nicely arranged to keep the look and shine always the same. It is easy to draw together most of us in the council or in the Parliament or in the county assembly to bring rebalancing and yet they are all calm and there is no punishment. So the rebalance to serve that actually.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57171	The Republic will now be presented by Vice-President of Dom Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57172	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As far as political responsibility is concerned, I said in a replica to my colleague, Dalic, not to repeat it. Namely, I'm replicating or responding to your allegations about the violations I have the impression that you're not satisfied with them, with the level of punishment. I read article 11. Violent provisions say "if he does not deliver fines for a violation of the head if he does not draw up and deliver a declaration of fiscal responsibility". You know very well it means there's no sanction with that penalty not to be penalized with 5 or 25 thousand kuna if someone stole something. It's simply being handled by other authorities. Each year, the State Audit Offices shall make reports and forward the irregularities observed to the State's Attorney's Office. So regardless of this, this law prescribes guidelines, ways, availability, and that the leaders spoken of in this law must behave with the care of a good master.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57173	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57174	Thank you very much. Eh Mr. Batinic, the State Review gave a report on privatisation and conversion back in the days when the late president was alive. You know that in that State Audit report, 90% of the conversion and privatisation has been assessed not to say criminally. What's the matter? Nothing. Now in the Constitution, we even have the definition of not obsessing over crimes. And what's going on, nothing, bit the donkey wolf. So, none of that. As for fines ranging from 5 to 25 thousand kuna, it is true that these are penalties for not signing a declaration of fiscal responsibility or for certain possible counterfeits in that declaration of fiscal responsibility. But the penalties for poor work and pestilence work in companies, in municipalities, there's no indication of punishment, fine. So there's no sign, there's no swear, so this is just a punishment for not signing a statement. There's some other responsibility I don't even see here, so there's really no responsibility anymore, as it was. Although we are talking about some kind of fine and political responsibility that is only being evaluated, political responsibility is assessed solely in the elections and nowhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57175	The last line is Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57176	Dear counterpart Grubisic, you were wondering what happened to those who act as hiduces towards the budget of the local unit. In fact, who do the local self-government bosses match? We used to talk about the political responsibility that was laid down in the law. As the prime minister may say, you said it corresponds to the voters, it is his political responsibility, he is responsible to the voters, and they are also responsible to the voters, the mayor and the mayor. First of all, what was in the law to give a mandate at its disposal is unconstitutional. He only has to, once they've been chosen, you know how they can be removed from power, not that in one law we prescribe that they should give a mandate at their disposal. It was purely a hoax and it was certainly and should have been taken from the law, crossed, thrown out of the law. There will be fraud and if no one will be punished with these fines but you didn't say round of drinks 5 or 25 grand, so how much would it be there in Slavonski Brod are...... Good and tambours can be for 5 grand, 25 grand because it's still a little bit of money for the mayor of the municipality. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57177	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57178	A colleague Vuksic, yes, is indeed a delusion of this definition in Article 11 that the leaders of all these companies, local, regional self-governments, will make the mandate available. It's against the constitution because it hasn't changed nor been illegal actually because they've been elected directly to the local elections or the mayor's elections or in the elections, let's go differently for these national elections. And as for the action of these, here's a good title somewhere that actually judging by what's going on in the chamber that it's not even a chamber anymore, but the whole country is one where I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57179	We are now going to an individual debate of 10 minutes, so I give my word to my colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57180	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So let's try to put this law in some real life water, given that today there was a government budget and budget rebalance, so let's try to put this law on budget rebalance, and then we'll all be clear without politicizing why the Fiscal Responsibility Act was proposed, why the Finance Ministry actually proposed it. Well, that's exactly why this doesn't happen. Because look at your colleagues and colleagues, you can't say that the health minister's recovery is going around 3.5 billion kunas from some of the previous times, and the moment the budget was passed he didn't know about those 3.5 billion kunas at all. The Ministry of Education can't when he's approved a budget from the plane has been seen, so we've been saying it here in the debate, saying he'll have enough money to pay, now the budget rebalance clearly indicates that there wasn't enough money to pay for it. My colleague Dalic was talking about pensions. We can talk about other costs, we can talk about the costs of the European Union, all of which were known. Or colleagues and colleagues, this Article 3(8), which is tax expenditure, is a loss of tax revenue, so a quality assessment of what will happen with some tax laws would not have happened with incomes what is now happening, would not have reduced VAT revenue by this amount that has been reduced. So this clearly indicates why the fiscal responsibility law has been passed, which it aims to achieve, at the end of the fiscal responsibility law is the strongest protection for the two people most responsible, the Prime Minister and the finance minister. Because they simply if some minister received so much and so much funding, if he did not say at that time that he could not make it through the year, and did not in the meantime make any reforms to reduce the expenditure he was responsible for. And it can't happen half the 11th month and budget rebalance for something that was known before. So this is about responsibility. My colleagues and colleagues, the deficit of the state budget can't rise by 60% and that's why no one bears political responsibility. Why? So here for this speaker and colleague Dalic and I have warned that this year's budget deficit will be around 15, 16 billion kuna, at least, a year ago. Or when you look at this draft budget for this year and look at the fiscal projections that were adopted in Croatia to the government less than a month ago, then you will see how different the draft budget is from the projections the government proposed a month ago. I am aware of the situation that the government wants to best-intentioned, but is it logical that in both fiscal projections, and now in the draft budget, it proposes that economic growth in 2013 will be 0.2% when it is clear to all that it will be -0.7 or -0.8. To dear God whether it's -0.7, 0.6 or 0.9 it's within the limits of some statistical error and that's irrelevant. And even the government was better when everyone said it was going to be economic growth -0.7. Now it's the end of the year, they got what the hips said about it, and it would be more logical if they put it in this budget rebalancing that there would be a drop in economic activity of 0.7% and based the 2014 budget on it. So that was the reason why the Fiscal Responsibility Act was proposed, not because someone was forced to force someone. And so is what's moving from this law, and that's what's so-called. political responsibility. Because if you're a minister, if you didn't get enough money, if you're not able to carry out the reforms, then you should tell the prime minister nicely, listen, I can't do it, and I'm simply resigning. I'm not going to put myself in a position to spend more than I'm entitled to. Because looking at some kind of government is a logical thing that at the moment of the adoption of the budget the Minister of Finance is on one side, all the other budgetary users are on the other side and he is their biggest enemy at that moment. And the logical thing is that every minister wants as much money as possible, to be the most successful minister. And you know what? It is always easier to raise more money than to implement a structural reform, especially a structural reform that is painful and that will not let God in public cause a negative thing about a minister. Well, is it logical that we didn't have a job obligation for doctors at war years that we're now introducing a work obligation for doctors, and that's the consequence of just not applying the Fiscal Responsibility Act. That's all, this is a classic and typical example for you today until noon on one side of Mark's square. This afternoon, we discuss what this law means in life. And we can be colleagues and colleagues here as politically as we want to be. These are the facts which, unfortunately, with interest rates and the question of who will finance next year's deficit of 19 billion kuna at the level of the general state, we will all pay. And we can fight here as much as we want. However, I say that we who have proposed this law well know what the intention of this law was and I believe that the greatest mistake of our successor is that this law may not have adapted to what state it is and that this law has not been amended in early 2012 to simply take some things that are now, unfortunately, too late. But I repeat this one is... Did some kind of God's transparency happen that we in this law are discussing the moment when a budget and budget rebalance is proposed, which clearly indicates with its proposal what the Fiscal Responsibility Act should regulate? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57181	We're moving on to replicas now. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57182	Thank you very much. You were talking about your friend Shuker's responsibility. Well, any law should increase responsibility at all levels. However, this law in Glava - a macro-economic and budgetary projection that is incomplete. This chapter is incomplete because it speaks of fiscal planning, and does not mention the Committee on Fiscal Policy at all, it is not, and this committee must be a component of this bill, it must be the main component of macroeconomic and budgetary projections. Without the fiscal board, the projections are incomplete. Who's going to control whether the projections are real and whether they're going to act countercyclically. Just that board. When we asked on the board why the board was removed from the previous one, they said the argument was that there was no explanation, that it was, and so it is nowhere. Comrade Shucker, here's a review of all the countries. No country is as arranged as this proposal is. Only in France, but there is the Court of Auditors, there is no State Audit provided for the Court of Auditors to be the Committee on Fiscal Policy, and here is an excuse to amend the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliament in order to form an independent committee as envisaged. Well, we recently changed the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to have a Committee on European Affairs. So is it easier to change the Rules of Procedure and another committee to add or it's easier to change a few laws because it's been thrown out of here, and this is the only one that belongs here? The fiscal policy committee is the only place he belongs and must be here, not that he belongs. He has to be here. It must not be in any other law, let alone in the State Audit Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57183	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57184	A colleague, Maric, the Committee on Fiscal Policy should be one of the strongest levers of the finance minister to help him implement this law for the simple reason why the idea of putting it into the State Audit, the state auditors are simply macro-economicists, nor are tax experts, and they cannot lay down that committee that will be of quality and serve the purpose. But it best shows that things don't want to be settled properly and it best shows that this House of Commons doesn't want to be given any power, not the power I think in a classical sense, but simply that it has some power that, apart from the parliamentary debate and the decision-making of the budget where there is a normal thing the political pressures of the ruling majority that something must be voted on, I think that this committee should be with the Finance Committee as some kind of body that will simply recognise certain anomalies independently and professionally, that what happened to us today with the budget rebalance, that the deficit of the state budget is increasing by 65%.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57185	The Republic will now be presented by the respected Vice-President of Dom Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57186	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I agree with you, even if you didn't say it this way, that everything should be put in the context of time and space when it happens. You mentioned political responsibility. Of course, I've already replicated that subject, and I'm going to replicate it to you again, and I'm going to repeat it from each of us who is in politics is expected to have political responsibility written in the law of any kind of level or not. And I don't think there's a need in the Fiscal Responsibility Act in this way and in the way that it's interpreted as talking about political responsibility. Because each of us, you were a minister, you were a parliamentary representative, and now you are, each of us has a certain political responsibility for our decisions. As far as structural reforms are concerned, let's say I remember 2004, 2005, 2006, a situation that has been reduced by internal debt, internal liquidity, an extraordinary time for the start of structural reforms. I believe you'll agree with me, you're much stronger both as a financier and as an economist in that. You've had two mandates to launch structural reforms and now you expect after this state of affairs of this government, this coalition to launch structural reforms in this situation. I agree, perhaps we should have, whether six months ago, a year ago, but I am convinced that these circumstances in which Croatia is now, of course, will not be in the sense of the word that we want to solve the matter as quickly as possible, but I am definitely sure that structural reforms will have to be launched. But what is the reason for the launch of structural reforms? And what has been missed over the past eight years, and what you have simply said and the projections of the budget and the future of Croatia... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57187	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57188	A colleague of Batinić, the esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament, we would not have completed the negotiations if we had not implemented the reforms. Those are the facts, we can discuss it as much as we want. It's just that Europe wouldn't say, you wouldn't let those who didn't do anything. One of the key reforms should have been to amend the Labour Act where only one thing was defined, not to abolish rights under collective agreements, but simply collective agreements that are older than a few years are no longer valid and to start new collective bargaining. Remember what political show he made about it. Sign this and this, and look what's today's biggest problem with the state budget and last year's and this year's. It's the same expenditure for employees who are regulated by collective agreements. And I'd like all the resolution ministries to announce when they're signed which collective agreements, and then you'll see how many have been signed in the last seven, eight years. Very little. And it's also one of the most important structural reforms. So when you look at the grudges and now the IMF and the World Bank, and what the commission is telling us is, among other things, labour market problems. So it's structural reform. But look, you keep telling someone who's like this, look, we lost the election because we didn't obviously do some things. And you're going to lose them because you're going our way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57189	The third line is Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57190	Thank you very much. I listened very carefully to you, and I don't understand why we even have this law. We, when it was carried out, interpreted it as a strong fiscal instrument to control the expenditure side of the budget and that those who carry out certain duties from local to state level act in accordance with their obligations. When an analysis of the number of criminal penalties imposed, when political responsibility is evaluated, when the number of mandates given is evaluated and made available in all three cases, the result is zero. So, there are no criminal penalties, no mandates available, and no election-scheduled ones for failing to comply with fiscal rules. And now that something's not going on in football, that's it. When a team plays bad games then shifts coaches, and when politics doesn't go with the budget, then we change the law or the rules. And that's one established practice. And the question is, would we, without this law, be in the same situation as this law? My conclusion is that, after today's debate, if he hadn't made any shift in responsibility, no punishment would have been best for him and for this authority to be without any shackles, without any fiscal bonds, because the budget for the following year shows that the brakes have been fired by the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57191	And the last person to sign up for the hearing, you didn't sign up for your colleague Shuker, and the last person to sign up for the hearing is the esteemed representative of Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57192	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The fiscal responsibility and fiscal rule is the obligation that we must and will have to fulfil not only because of the obligations undertaken by the EU directives or councils but also because of our own protection of fiscal responsibility and regularity in both the state and at all levels, as well as at the level of units of regional or local self-government. I came forward because I want to look back at the application of fiscal rules in units of local, or regional self-government, and I would like to highlight a few of the problems that appear here and mention my personal experiences. However, according to these amendments, Article 5 of the Law defines a fiscal rule whereby the total expenditure of the general budget expressed by the share of GDP must be reduced annually by at least 1 percentage point until the time when the primary balance of the general budget in the nominal amount is equal to or positive. In other words, we realized the message that we should actually reduce all the dubious and burdensome budgets. The new rules or provisions to be followed within the framework of the European Semester are laid down by a package of regulations and Directives which prescribe preventive and corrective measures and rules prescribed by Six Pack for all Member States and prescribed by the Too Pack only to euro area members. Now we've all heard about this, but here's the amendment to the law I'm looking at through state fiscal policy and also through fiscal policy for the level of local and regional self-government units. The main problem is that fiscal responsibility begins at the moment when the law is passed and when it comes into force. If the financial situation was negative, it should be dealt with in accordance with that law at the time, but how do you ensure it in the founding negative business without economic growth? By applying a declaration of fiscal responsibility, it was not until 2011 that all fiscal rules were applied, and then in 2012 all fiscal rules began to apply. Now the question here is what does it mean in the inherited negative financial situation, it doesn't matter who followed it and when he inherited it. For the purpose of carrying out full financial control other than fiscal rules, the Budget Law is extremely important but also the Law on Public Navidity but also the General Tax Law. Of course, financial material control for all those who have managed to introduce it in their environments, and it is necessary to review independently which some units of local and regional and regional governments have but local self-government have some, but also that special control by the State Audit, although there are certainly different examples. I can set an example of my city, or unit of local self - government, which I am very familiar with. Here's an example of this town called Trogir. In 2009, debts were inherited under 48 million guarantees, a budget loss for the amount of invoices that were not registered at all in the books, but only then once 39 million and still the debts of the budget users but also companies and clubs which were not recognised or accepted even though the city was also issuing guarantees and...credits still around 30 million. Only the state was about 18 million. All of this has been confirmed by the State Audit of the year 2009 and other bodies such as the competent ministry, government and DORH have been informed of this. The average budget revenues of this city are 50 million kunas to you. The budget was then projected up to 110 million kunas, so it needed 110 million kuna for 2011. After 2009, the budget was reduced to real size, however, had to calculate the loss for all unimplemented invoices, or for all losses that were covered by contracts other than those which could be sued. The guarantees had to be paid because the city's companies were unable to pay those debts with a wave of municipal and promotional ones. Interests were raised especially for tax debts due to tax evasion and insurance on the city's salaries, from this, from that, from everything. In 4 years 30 million were returned from 2009 to 2013, 30 million kuna and 60 million kuna was invested in infrastructure. They used their own resources, reduced expenditures, and also used EU funds. Obviously, debts will have to be paid back for a few more years because it was impossible to repay all debt in 4 years, and the problem is that this, apart from accounting transfer in terms of liabilities and debts, will fiscally resolve it. In any case, everything will have to be settled by any obligation of any debt. But the fact is that these debts are still standing there, they're listed and they're just being transferred. Of course, if the continuity continues, I firmly believe they're paying for it. After the past local elections, it was necessary that the newly elected leaders or all of them continue to repay the debt created by their colleagues from the authorities of the previous one before them now. In addition to all of this, it was necessary and I hope that this will continue to protect the property and ensure the functioning of the local self-government unit and protect jobs with acceptable salaries in the legal set allowed. The question of how, in terms of economic growth in such a unit of local self-government, which is not average, but seems to me a little above, to be able to continue the trend of debt recovery and the functioning of the local self-government unit, I believe that there is this in others and raising economic opportunities. It is obvious that it is often necessary for people who run units of local self-government and regional and all other "adults" because in this described example of my unit of local self-government it is clear that there is an misunderstanding that simply have to pay back the debts that have arisen. We can talk about why and how and fight for economic growth and the regular functioning of units of regional and local self-government as well as the state. Of course, it's hard to call out predecessors because they won't pay back those debts. The debts will return to economic growth. In fact, it is always necessary to establish the truth and to invoke those and for the period when irregularities and injuries or gossiping acts or offences that have arisen inexcusably, and for this there are bodies that actually have to do so, and no one would have to protect these or those people in particular. It may be necessary to further determine, by intervention in the budget law, how to overcome the dubiosis that has been encountered and must go through budget plans until their return because the Budget Act does not know the non-compliance of the Budget Act. He knows only execution. This is a major problem especially for local self-government units that do not have long-term sustainable sources. There is also the problem of introducing fiscal rules for companies. In fact, many local self-government individuals were in debt through their companies and issued exchange guarantees. Commercial companies usually could not repay loans and then have to be returned by the city or municipalities from the budget. There is imbalance and unintended use of funds. It is also important to point out that the vast majority of funds were used past the turkey business plan of investments and then ultimately you have a loan for which neither kindergarten nor roads nor any other public good remains. All that remains is debts that, say, investigate some bodies. Now the question is, what about the excessive deficit of the county and the units of local self-government? It is obvious that urgent restructuring is necessary in this area. Of course, in relation to political responsibility, unless, of course, it is proved through other bodies that there is another, non-compliance or violation of fiscal rules, it is difficult to achieve for those persons elected in the general elections directly, but it can certainly help the leader in his obligation to seek responsibility but also the obligation to seek responsibility from the management of companies and institutions, and possibly their replacement. Of course, this applies not only to companies but also to administrative departments. Just as it would apply here to the ministries. And I believe that this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fiscal Responsibility Act can help to advocate better financial supervision and ensure financial discipline, but it is definitely necessary economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57193	Thank you very much. He had replicas. Dear Representative Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, we really agree... in that part that one fiscal responsibility must be at all levels. When we talk about fiscal responsibility at country level, we know where the problems are, and especially what you have shown from this example of fiscal responsibility at local level. In fact, the biggest problem at local level as well as everywhere to balance that revenue side, which we don't often know what we're going to achieve during a fiscal period. That spending party is also such that not only did we plan that we would have to realize it but that even more things would be... defined. But what's important is what you cited about the example of fiscal responsibility. What is the example of this fiscal responsibility after these dubious things and things you have stated. Whether it was a criminal responsibility, whether it was a criminal responsibility, whether it was a political responsibility. On the other hand, we also need to know the level of such responsibility. Unfortunately, we often find everything equal in a way that someone makes one dubiosis and is fiscally responsible for several tens of millions of euros or kunas or even fiscal responsibility if you transfer some sort of conto of several thousand kunas because you have paid more for some travel expenses in that part. In all things, we need to talk very closely, from the lowest local level where these companies own and certainly must now be responsible even to the national level.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57195	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57196	Dear colleague Škvarić, I honestly didn't understand what you wanted to tell me. Responsibility is being determined, and debts are coming back, that's the whole story. So the fact is that those political, one way or another, debts will have to come back. I don't know who, when, how and how it goes, but the fact is that it happened at one point. They've come into existence. I didn't talk here, and that's why I purposely set an example. This example can be illustrated by who knows where, who knows who and who knows how and what levels and what dimensions to say it, but he's a fact. He's a fact and he needs to be returned. And you can tell a bank to someone or a believer whatever you want, but the fact is that you have to pay back the money and the fact is the same that you're going to have to pay back for everything you've signed... and you know it very well, just like me. So I'm not talking about travel expenses here, even though I need to watch them too, I need to look all the way to Z, to June, but I'm talking about something here that's the height of something. So now you're dimensional to whatever level you think you need. Here I don't know if I've been able to answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57197	Thank you very much. A new replica of the respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57198	Thank you very much. Comrade Rilje, I like your life-long and logical thinking. You also talk about responsibility and it is necessary because the Fiscal Responsibility Act is also necessary, but in order to be fully responsible, it implies both responsibility and responsible fiscal planning, and in order for fiscal planning to be responsible, it must be based on realistic macroeconomic budgetary projections. And in order to know whether it is on real projections fiscal planning, it is envisaged that the fiscal committee, or the fiscal policy committee, decide on it, and it is not available in this bill at all. He lost track of him from the first proposal to the second proposal, and he must be an integral part of this contract. He's gone and the law's disabled, cut because he doesn't have a board on fiscal policy. There is no responsible fiscal policy, no responsible projection if there is no such committee. And looking for where the Committee was lost, they may have forgotten it completely, I find it by accident in the proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Audit and in Article 20b, that is the second version of the Amendment to the Law on State Audit, in the first version it was not, the second version says Article 20b, paragraph 1: the Committee, the fiscal committee... is chaired by the Chief State Auditor who is also a member of the Board. Chief State Auditor, if you'll excuse me for being rude, there is no contact with the macro-economics and the assessment and fiscal planning. No touch, no knowledge. If, by chance, someone who knows fiscal policy and who knows whether fiscal planning is based on real projections is put on the head of the board, he does not know anything about state audit. This bill is in conflict with itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57199	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57200	Dear colleague Maric, I agree with you in principle. There's obviously no board. But the fact is, you'll always have to plan, you'll agree with me, you'll always have to treat the funds domestically. That's where you'll agree with me. Here's another example I didn't mention earlier. In 2006, it was an obligation to introduce the FMC. So you know the financial material control of the map of the process blah, blah, lots of things plus revisions, plus this, plus that. The fact that it wasn't there. Do you know when? Until 2009. And that's how it was. And then it had to be introduced and then it had to cover everything that had to be. Maybe it was before, which doesn't mean it justifies what you're talking about. No, I'm not saying that to justify it, but the fact that you always needed it in some way and there was always the possibility of surveillance. When it comes to reviewing, I can tell you about it. I was able to be present when the auditor found something one year, and the second year two or three earlier couldn't determine that if I knew... Because it says there, there's some kind of signature, or there's what you know... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In other words, I would like to tell you that, in fact, through the operation and through the obligation of home-made functional financial behaviour in terms of meaningful discipline with financial resources that are not ours, but the public should act in this way and there have always been some laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are now in line with the laws or directives and are trying to legalise themselves. I agree with you in principle, I hope you find a solution. But the fact is, it's been there before, and that's not what it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57201	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Josip Boris and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57202	Thank you very much, President. Comrade Rilje, I think today is the day of Trogir. It's better if one fool fell for all of us here than this kind of hard talk to his town. Is it? Still, you were mayor there. And you're a living example that this law as it is didn't affect anything at all. So you're saying you inherited 50, 30 million guarantees, etc. Then you returned it and obeyed the rules of 2011 and came to the elections and replaced you. It means that in no way does this affect the political responsibility of the Fiscal Responsibility Act. We can figure that out. That makes sense, doesn't it, Deputy? If it were in favor of you would be mayor today, however, the situation is different. And that's why I'm saying that he's a little bit and absurd now that he's changing because he's actually leaving just this sinister responsibility and nobody's charging her. And when we get into a situation where we don't respect rules like that today because that says budget rebalance, we should be left without at least four ministers today. They should give mandates at their disposal, and none have given because they believe that the rebalancing will also be adopted on 31.12. they were all part of fiscal rules. And the fact that the deficit has increased by as much as 60% will pay the citizens, that's what it's all about. And therefore, here I congratulate you on the day of the city, for you are Trogirn. But here maybe it's better to speak more affirmatively about your city regardless of what this law is bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57203	Dear fellow Boric, this is absolutely affirmative. I was actually asking to find a way to help all those who would actually run the city. True, you're right when you say you can gold everything and get nothing. That's right. But on the other hand, you have to know that you didn't come to some duty, I don't call it a function but a duty, you didn't come to some duty to be re-elected, but to do your best to do what you can, and no one is obliged to choose any of us, or you, or me, or anyone here, and that's a fact. And as for the state movement, you know that they're important too. That's what you felt on your skin. And on the other hand, look, I would now take advantage of this to all the citizens of the city, of course, first citizens if I was allowed by the President of the Parliament to actually congratulate me on this pay phone day of the city of Trogir St. Ivan Trogirski. Well, on the other hand, this isn't talking affirmatively or not. I guess you'd do the same, because pointing out the problem I didn't call anyone here. I just said there's a problem when you need to keep working on some others that have come, and remember always coming someone else will. We're not for centuries. Well, I trust you to know that, I believe you know that, so it will be easier for you in the future. [[That's what we say.]] There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57204	This was the answer to the replica of the respected representative Damir Rilje, for he began speaking until the chairman gave him his word. The second thing is to congratulate the Day of Trogir on all Trogirk and Trogirans and legal persons. I wish them success in the future. We have exhausted the list of respondents to the debate on this subject, so the closing statement will be given by Deputy Finance Minister respected Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Anyway, what you said, I'm joining the cards. Well, it's very short. I think the debate today has been quite correct and it has proved that this law should certainly be updated and that, I hope that until the second reading on these ambiguities that have been presented here today, and especially for the area of this fiscal committee, it will be much clearer and more transparent in the second reading and I can express my personal position that his function is closer to the Committee on Finance than that, but that is my personal position. So I hope that by the second reading and there will be some corrections related to these numerical rules, too, together with discussions with the fiscal committee, where it will try to determine what quality numerical rules that in fact any of this budget of the Republic of Croatia could bring to sustainability, but it is the fact that in the current conditions of business, the material costs, what I said, and especially the costs that the Government can affect and affect both the costs of employees and the material costs of the subsidy that were actually savings on that expenditure side, but it is certainly a big problem and we are publicly saying that this is the problem of interest so-called. non-productive costs that actually kill all these positive effects on material expenditures, on subsidies, on employees all the time, and I say that it is very dangerous to further reduce all these other costs when your interest costs cross over and refute all these effects that were positive on this expenditure side. Also, there is also the cost of the EU and now it is actually up to all institutions to withdraw more and the funds that this also cost that we will be paying in the budget and for national co-financing to actually make a positive use of it and to achieve on the revenue side which is now the imbalance between higher payments and these revenues that the state administration through all these actually bodies... only the state, but also through the local side, to withdraw more funds and thus this cost, the EU's cost, which is now nominally extremely high, however, with our projects and the engagement of the entire administration, should be corrected and the effects of the negative impact that are initially clearly significant to be eliminated. Also, what is important to say and in this year, the EU's entry is not only because of these costs, and because of the overall tax system, it has had a strong impact on revenue in the budget. I told you the effect of the import VAT that in the biggest month when you have the largest let's say import, the greatest effect of VAT, which is the 8th month, you actually have a delay not to pay it at the level of immediate imports but accounting. So these are all some adjustments that have affected this year and the revenue side of the budget for which next year will be much more stable and simpler when they are implemented and planned. So I thank you once again for the debate, and I hope that these proposals of yours that are here today that have been discussed, I said that it is partially accepted, means not entirely a directive, but partly in those parts of the macroeconomic forecasts. I hope in that second part, another reading will be considered and these suggestions of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57206	And at your final presentation, we have one replica of the respected representative Goran Marić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57207	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovec, you have well noticed that there was a correct debate, but here, more or less, the debate is correct except in cases of political violence. And it's logical that he responds to political violence. Last night at the same time we witnessed it. And there was a debate on the second level, there were raised tones. There's no need tonight, but a rational proposal I don't know who can't accept, then there's got to be some unacceptable motive for it. What I was talking about was the fiscal board, so it's logic and common sense, and it's nowhere, here by country, it belongs to the Committee on Finance. You have the opinion of the Legislative Office that this is not possible because it is necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure. Well, of course the Rules of Procedure will change, so you'll have permission. But you also have the interpretation of Minister Bauk, Minister of Administration, who says he must not be in the State Audit Office because this changes the constitutional definition of the State Audit and is given to the State Audit to actually oversee the Government which is unacceptable. And you really can't let that happen. I'm glad you reacted this way and that your personal position is that it's logical to be on the Committee on Finance. Even though most countries have a Committee on Fiscal and Monetary Policy, unfortunately we have thrown out on the National Bank's insistence and we must not have a Committee on Monetary Policy but at least let's have a Committee on Fiscal Policy. And it's good to go in two readings, not an emergency procedure like last night, so of course it was a little harder and harder and we didn't come across understanding. The proposing depends very often on the reaction and debate in the Parliament. Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57208	Thank you too, dear colleague. We've exhausted the list of reported replicas and replies to the replica. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this when the conditions are met. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on fiscal responsibility, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 499. The debate on the proposal is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: - The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on fiscal responsibility and all objections, proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most 80 votes in favour, 24 votes in favour and 7 abstentions were reached with the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57211	Thank you, Mr. President. With regard to the Treaty on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property between the Republic of Georgia and the Republic of Georgia, I will briefly refer to the contract. So the contract was signed between the government of the Republic of Georgia in January 2013. It is important to say that the signing of this contract was preceded by a number of delegations not only of the Government of the Republic of Croatia but also of the Croatian Parliament in 2011 in Georgia and that they are actually there and achieved let's say certain benefits and that the effects are seen. What is important to say is that the agreed text of the contract has made a number of reliefs in taxing income and in obtaining resident states of the Contracting Parties and the possibility of increasing the mutual exchange of goods and services and increasing the degree of overall economic activity of both states. What is important to say is that Croatian construction companies are allowed not to pay taxes on profits in Georgia if the works last less than 9 months and allow Croatia to tax the income of real estate made by Georgian residents in Croatia. It is also prescribed in the final provisions of the treaty that Croatian societies in Georgia will have the same status and benefits as those of the state in the Republic of Croatia, and it is also possible for any problem to arise and the transitional case of double taxation of the state to be negotiated directly without the participation of diplomatic authorities, which will help speed up the solution to possible problems. It means numerous reliefs and benefits from Croatian companies in Georgia. I will only say one thing here I think it is important to show that there is room for Croatian companies in these areas of the market and that this is a good measure of this 56 contract between the OECD model and the avoidance of double taxation but here I will only tell you that between the Republic of Georgia and the Republic of Georgia from 2010 to 2012 that the Republic of Croatia has achieved a positive trade in goods with Georgia. So we exported to that area nearly 164 million kunas of goods and services, and 5.7 million goods and services were imported, which means that we have a very positive cooperation of the trade in goods and that in this context we need to look at these tax reliefs where Croatian companies will be even stronger, even better able to boost trade with Georgia and where we see that there is certainly potential for both our companies and construction companies to make their incomes on the territory of the Republic of Georgia, and thus enables them to have certain tax reliefs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57212	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament want to take part in the reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We're having a debate on the representatives' clubs. The HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Martina Dalic are at work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57213	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleagues, Deputy Minister with colleagues. Well, in some ways, in the Assembly, the practice of not discussing such points has actually been applied, and in some ways they pass without debate. But I think it's worth pointing to a few parallels between this contract and our current reality. It is certainly good to conclude such contracts and Croatia has a large number of contracts to avoid double taxation in this way regulate the rules of the game so as to express myself in the case of mutual relations between the two countries. However, this law also has an interesting article, which is an article on dividend taxation. The article on dividend taxation says that in the case of business entities from this particular case in Georgia, it is possible to tax paid dividends in Croatia and, for example, in Croatia but at that time, such tax is paid at a rate of 5%. And this is precisely why I have volunteered for the debate in order, for example, to point out again in the Croatian Parliament the consequences and injustice of the Taxation Law proposed by this Government and which is currently being applied to us. Is it again this contract and its provision on dividend tax rate of 5% again very clearly confirms that our Taxation Law actually puts our Croatian domestic entrepreneurs in a more unfavourable position than those coming from foreign countries and when dividends are paid to foreign countries? On the one hand, we are an EU Member State. So when the mothers and those paid dividends are located in the EU Member States there is no dividend tax then, when the owners are located in the countries with which we have a contract, then the rates of the contract are applied, in this particular case it is 5% and clearly and it is clear to everyone that the 12% dividend tax is borne by only and only Croatian entrepreneurs at this current economic moment. And that's one of the reasons why we can't possibly agree and agree with the Prime Minister who reiterated yesterday that there is no increased tax burden and no new one has been introduced. They have just been introduced for Croatian entrepreneurs and are precisely in a less favourable position. Another thing I would like and ask the Deputy Minister of Finance to comment on and accept and responsibility that this should be pointed out before is the third article that says that "the dividend expression refers to income from shares, cookies and founding shares". What are the coworkers? I don't know and I don't know that the term "coux" exists in the Croatian legislative framework and I don't even know what the word "coux" in Croatian would mean. So I'd like to ask you to explain that. Therefore, of course HDZ will support this contract and its conclusion on the principle that this opens and expands the scope for business with entrepreneurs from other countries and clearly defines the rules of the game. However, once again we underline, point out and oppose the injustices of taxes and the Tax on dividends, which are borne by Croatian entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57214	Thank you, too. The final word of Deputy Minister of Honor Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57215	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's to the end I have to be honest and thank you for noticing, I don't know what they are... honestly, I'm telling you, and we're going to ask, and here's a colleague from the IRS who doesn't know either, whether it's a printing mistake, but I thank you for what you've noticed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57216	We're finally real. ... We've exhausted the list of persons reported for discussion and response. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when we get the terms, that's probably tomorrow. Final proposal of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Georgia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 503. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that it is unanimous with 111 votes for the adopted Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Georgia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax and the text proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57219	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs, MPs. The asylum area in the Republic of Croatia has been governed by the Asylum Act applicable from 1 January 2008 for the purpose of the obligation to carry out compliance with Directive 2011/95 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the conditions to be met in order to grant international protection for the unique status of refugees or persons eligible for subsidiary protection and for the content of the approved protection, has been accessed by amendments and additions to the Asylum Act. In this regard, the final proposal stipulates that the Asylum Act applies to third-country nationals and stateless persons so far to all countries, i.e. the countries and the EU. The definition of family members is extended to persons who are in a permanent relationship who can be proven by common residence at the same address for at least 3 years and if the intention of further living together is practically equal to that of the same-sex community. The concept of persecution is further arranged and the concept of a particular social group is expanded in such a way as to take into account the gender identity of a particular social group other than the characteristics of the sea. It is also prescribed to issue a travel document for foreigners under subsidiary protection. Furthermore, further harmonisation has been made with Council Directive 2005/85 EC of 1 December 2005 on minimum conditions to be met in the procedure for deciding on an asylum application in the Member States in such a way as to regulate the treatment of asylum seekers for which a European arrest warrant has been issued or for which a decision on extradition or surrender has been taken. The procedure for the submission of a re-application of an asylum application after the decision to refuse an asylum application has become enforceable, i.e. where the responsibility of another Member State has been determined for examining an asylum application. For the purpose of identifying the members responsible for examining asylum applications, so-called Since 1 July 2013, the Republic of Croatia has initiated the implementation of Council Regulation (EC) No Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2013 establishing a system for the comparison of fingerprints for the effective implementation of the Dublin Convention and of the Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2006 (OJ L 298, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 393/2003 on the introduction of criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member States responsible for examining asylum applications lodged by third-country nationals in one of the Member States. While those regulations are directly applicable national legislation, in order to facilitate and better implement certain issues such as the possibility of exchanging information on asylum seekers with Member States, the rights and obligations of foreigners to be transferred to the responsible Member State, the procedure with foreigners asylum seekers who refuse to give fingerprints or for which it is not possible for medical or other reasons to take fingerprints. Type of decision in the case of responsibility of another Member State, rejection of the request, the procedure for ensuring the implementation of the transfer to a Member State, the regulation of certain obligations or as a final restriction of movement and the issuing of a passport to a party to whom it is necessary to transfer to a responsible Member State. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are proposed to adopt this law by an emergency procedure, given that there is a obligation to comply with Directive 2001/95 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on standards for the qualification of third countries or persons without citizenship to achieve international protection for the uniform status of refugees or persons eligible for subsidiary protection and for the content of the approved protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57220	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the Croatian People's Party club and respected representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57221	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, dear Deputy Minister with a colleague. They told me colleagues don't cook again, so I'll try to be brief and concise. So, as the Deputy Minister has already said, it is a law that actually harmonizes our law with the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council and ensures the implementation of several EU regulations. But what I want to point out is that it seems to us that this bill and this bill of law are really talking and we are voting a better law on this subject, clearer, more thorough in some of our provisions more adapted to the time in which we live, and in this sense I will immediately say it. We will support him, and we will be happy to support him. One of the things that we find important and good at this law is that they define more clearly the various categories of persons who, for various reasons, are also listed in the law better than they have been able to find in the position of any asylum seekers, any foreigners, any refugees, any foreigners by... So, all those categories that are mentioned in this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, I would point out that in some of my provisions this law when speaking about groups, about the characteristics of individuals or groups of individuals who may be asylum seekers, and in fact analyzes the reasons why people can be asylum seekers, this law shows one to me seems to be a very commendable width in the perception of people, their rights, their freedoms on the one hand, and then, of course, in the context of this possibility that these rights and freedoms are seriously violated and that people are in an asylum seekers situation. And that width that this law provides and the groups that he mentions and the situations that he points out as possible reasons for people being threatened are something that is neither typical of our legislation nor unfortunately for our country. But I promised I wouldn't cook, so I'm moving on. What is also important is that asylum or subsidiary protection on the one hand cannot in any way be stronger than the fact that the person at issue poses a danger to our national security, whether for the real order of the Republic of Croatia, whether it has sinned or is a danger or for the provisions of international law especially in situations of war, conflict. It is the same thing that should therefore be kept in mind and what seems important to me to point out. So, on the one hand, of course, asylum seekers with all their opportunities and rights, but on the other hand, our legislation, our national security remains the first and in some way the basic criterion when we assess the situations in which people are at all. The law also further specifys the way asylum applications are submitted. It is also an important moment in this law, because it often happens that in situations of asylum seeking to deal with people who are on international or some other warrants, in some judicial proceedings that are being sought and so that this is a more precise definition, the procedure is also a step forward in this Law in relation to the situation so far. What seems particularly important to us, and it is especially good that the various rights asylum seekers have are further regulated. It's about the right to free legal aid, the right to work, the right to health care, the right to education and the recognition of qualifications. That's also important. Therefore, it even includes the recognition of qualifications or the way in which a person has qualifications if there is no documentation that could confirm those qualifications. And unfortunately, asylum seekers are most often not there because of hobbies, but because they have had to leave various difficult situations and seek asylum in another country and often find it difficult to document such things as schools that have finished or qualifications that they have. As regards education, it should also be pointed out that asylum seekers are scheduled to participate in the programme of language learning, history and culture of the Republic of Croatia. It's an absolutely important thing. It is important that all people who come to the Republic of Croatia have the right, have the opportunity, but frankly they also have a certain obligation to learn about our language, our history and our culture. There, it should be stressed that the programme of learning the language of history and culture is brought by the minister of education under this law. In this regard, of course, you should keep an eye on that programme as soon as possible and bring it in. As for the asylum situation itself and asylum seekers in the Republic of Croatia, now that we have entered the EU about it, I have seen in the report of the Committee, there have been discussions on the Committee and, of course, there is a real danger of increasing in the medium and longer term, to increase pressure on the Republic of Croatia as regards asylum seekers. This will, of course, depend on the political, unfortunately and other conditions and situations in our narrow and wider political environment. However, it should be prepared to do so. It is therefore important that the system involved and all the people working in this system are able to act quickly, efficiently, rationally, based on certain criteria and rules. But on the other hand, and that's why he's here, I'm gonna go back to those things I said at first. It is therefore good that this law accurately lists and defines the various situations in which people can be found. It is important that regardless of our rational, quick, and effective ability to maintain empathy, compassion, and humanity with difficult and terrible situations in which people often find themselves and find themselves in a situation of asylum seekers. This applies not only to people who will be directly involved in the system, but also to all of us. We too will have to work on public awareness in many other topics when it comes to this subject. We can't be a country, and we shouldn't be a country, and we shouldn't be a society that's, say, talking about building accommodation units for asylum seekers, so the local community or the local population is rebelling like some kind of troublesome, dangerous, contagious person. So it's also something we need to work on, where we also need to develop our humanity and our empathy and our ability to understand other people and be a society that understands other people and that is able to help other people as much as we can. And in a broader sense, and I will end with that, these issues of asylum and asylum and all that is expected of us and the understanding that is expected of us, of course opens the issue of general migration and immigration that is ahead of us. In the medium and longer term we will have two parallel problems in the Republic of Croatia, one is unfortunately to one extent the brain drain, the drain of those most educated, those with the best skills that will go attracted to better conditions or better salaries, but not only the wages but the conditions of work, progress and life in some other countries, and on the other hand probably one part of the people from our wider and narrower region will feel the need and come to Croatia. Are we ready both for asylum seekers, asylum seekers, and immigrants, are we ready to accept an increasing number of people of other religions and even other skin colors? That's the question. And this law is a good step on that road anyway. I certainly will not give my answer to the question of whether we are ready, but you can probably think about how much I think about how much of the country in which the plates are broken in the second letter and where an inequality is introduced in the Constitution as much as it is willing to accept both asylum and immigrants. But I promised I wouldn't cook again. My colleagues and colleagues, thank you for your attention. I repeat, we will be happy to support this law, it is a step in the right direction, but these laws are just important because we don't take them just as something we do here at 17.45 a row, rather than really be the way our policies and our systems deal with people, and we actually make all of us one step better, humane, humane if you will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57222	Thank you, too. We have one replica of the respected representative of Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, a colleague in front of the club said that we support it as an asylum law club and this is an interesting conclusion that this part, maybe I'll be a little over-recorded to tell the bauk of the asylum. That this should not be experienced in one way, catastrophic but every organised state should see and what comparative advantages it can be if we control these processes. And if we control the processes then we can also prevent a certain part of the departure of higher education people. Well, it would certainly be good for the government of the Republic of Croatia, the resolution ministry, to make certain strategies that are important for all of these processes of the Republic of Croatia to come out safely with profits. I'm glad that this topic fellow Igor started and I think it fits this part and that we shouldn't expect those people who are primarily, they didn't come because of some social rights, they went first and they can't be a burden of the environment they come into, they want to work, they want to survive because they went there because of these conditions. So I think that we should certainly do this in a quality way and organize a strategy to organize ourselves as a state to lead these processes, so that they don't surprise us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57224	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57225	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. If my colleague Mandic were right, I did mention it. This law, which is a really good law, is in a way a guideline and can be an inspiration to us that in this broader context of immigration and change that will happen in the future in the Republic of Croatia, we are really open and broad and that we define things precisely and thoroughly as we are based on European experience in these issues and this law is complemented by the provisions of the directives and regulations and that, in fact, in the wider context, we are acting in the same way and preparing ourselves for trends that are inevitable, which I am afraid we are not preparing enough for.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57226	Thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is up to HDZ club and respected representative Davor Bozinovic. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to express some dissatisfaction with the fact that we are talking about such an important topic late in the evening and that we are going again on an urgent procedure and it is something that is extremely important, an issue that is extremely important for the Croatian public to be familiar with. We, as the deputy minister said, have had the Asylum Act since 2008, but we are a member of the EU for only a few months, and by entering the EU, this problem has changed significantly. In the EU, there is a whole series of countries that have a past as colonial forces, and they have a well-developed immigration or immigration policy. Croatia doesn't have one. And we simply have to talk about it in one appropriate way first of all towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There is still no common asylum policy in the EU, and discussions have been going on for 14 years. Why isn't there, can you imagine? Because it's a very sensitive topic there, even though Commissioner Cecilia Malmström says she'll be there by autumn 2015. The EU gets a common asylum policy, however, there are serious differences between countries. Some are more affected by asylum policy, some are less affected. For example, we are talking about the number of immigrants, such as Germany and Austria, among those most affected, and you have countries such as some other Central and Eastern European countries that are not affected at all. The fact is that 90% of immigration falls on the burden of 9 EU member states. There is a new moment after the Arab Spring after the events in North Africa and this latest crackdown in Syria that a large number of immigrants are coming to countries such as Greece, such as Malta, such as Cyprus. We've also seen some tragic footage of it recently. Italy addressed the European Commission to increase its means of handling this problem because Italy, for example, spent a billion and 300 million euros last year, and received only a few dozen million euros from the EU, so it should be kept in mind that, although Europe is carrying part of the costs, it is particularly in this first row of affected countries that are not adequate for what they spend. Of course, the water is a very sharp debate I would say about Dublin 2, about the Dublin Regulation, about which the minister said something. So if an immigrant comes to one member country, and then he goes to another if he's being held there, then they bring him back to the first member state. Why does it matter? Unlike many ideas about immigration to Europe, especially the fact that the largest number of immigrants come from the sea side is actually the largest number coming by land. For example, Croatia is one of the closest members or located on a land road for immigrants coming from the Far East. In one report I think this police report mentioned that in the last year, the largest number of immigrants if I'm not mistaken came from Afghanistan 30% from Somalia. Yesterday we talked about when we talked about Afghanistan about the mission to Afghanistan about the mission to Somalia to discuss it interestingly, that at the very least in this debate we should include the Foreign Ministry because the work on one of the foreign policy priorities and the MUP is due to participation there, but also because of this data. Have we analyzed this information in the context of our overall policy on Afghanistan, for Somalia, followed by countries such as Algeria, Syria, North Africa and the Middle East. When we talk about that provision of the Dublin Regulation, Germany is very much in favour of staying. Of course, it is not at the entrance and what is done in Germany and in the UK in some way, it is that point system of the score system where possibly highly educated personnel are being detained, those less educated with lower qualifications are being sent back. Greece and other countries would like that to change, so that is at least the issue that we in Croatia need to put in public debate on what we need to discuss. The Germans recently said, I think their interior minister has an increased number of immigrants seeking political asylum from Serbia and Macedonia, so there is the region. They do not approve of these asylums, however, when they are deported they will hardly pass Croatia, which is the first country to enter their entry according to the Dublin Declaration or regulations. I can agree with some solutions, however, when we talk about certain social groups we must also be aware that there is one trend for immigrants to declare themselves members of certain minority groups to get political asylum. Read about the experiences of Spain. So this is also a question to discuss in Croatia. So I have really a few problems with the law first because there's no public debate. It is one question that will certainly surprise Croatia in some way. This is a new experience, and tonight I consider this only by doing business, not by having a real public debate on the subject. The other thing I have a problem with, it's a provision in the law that says this law won't require additional budgets. Now, given the trend of the increase and the trend of the expected increase, given what is planned and what will be resolved by this law, such as the issue of free legal assistance, education, accommodation and health care, I am interested in how it is possible then to pass the law and to believe that it will not require any additional budgetary costs to carry out these tasks. So just take the fact that with Kutina and Žeževo he recently bought Porin it seems to me, and somewhere I read in the paper that plans are being built and refugee camps in Tovarnik and Trilj. How can this be done without additional costs related to the enforcement of this law? Of course, it's a whole other topic, but it's mentioned as a reason for the urgent adoption of this law, so it's said to be related to compliance with the residence law. We still think that the Law on residence should be changed because Croatia has returned to some solutions from the past. For example. If you come to Switzerland and get some ID card with a specific address, you can live 20 years there, you can change 20 cities, and you don't have to report to the police that if you go to work in Rijeka for 20 or 2 months, you have to report to the police that you've come to the river for what reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57228	Thank you, too. We have reports of replicas. The first replica and respected representative Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57229	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Bozinović, I would like to agree with the basic tone of the awareness of the importance of this topic in your debate, or I would not like to be reduced to mutual accusations, but I think I have to react to some of the things that have been said and were actually incorrect. That's to say Croatia has no immigration policy. You know very well in this House during our mandate, my and your adopted migration policy, was one of the obligations to join the European Union. I think that the area of asylum and it is not possible to define in a way at this time the development of relations in the European Union to adopt a common or single policy and I think it has already been made a lot by the Amsterdam Treaty when it, while the European Union has still been working on the three pillars principle, has moved from third to first. When it comes to the importance of the subject, I think it speaks enough to the importance of the fact that there are three MPs sitting in your club right now. So I don't know, and I think that the topics are very difficult in this way, so we should discuss at 9.30 or 18.30 when it's actually known that our working hours are very specific. And it's only about budget funds. It's a budget requirement by the end of this year. So given the trend we have in terms of the number of asylum seekers and given these new benefits that these amendments and additions will bring to them, I objectively and realistically think that there will be no larger budgets. And I think we also need to make a difference for the Croatian public and for us to make a difference between Ježev and Kutina. And about Porin you were talking about, Porin as far as I know and I have a response from the Ministry of the Interior, it's not bought but a contract has been concluded with the railway company and we actually have the opportunity to arrange more... additional accommodation units. In that context, we've done something, but I don't think there's really going to be any additional budgetary burdens by the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57230	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected representative Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57231	My colleagues have an opinion, I have an opinion. I just want to point out that we're going in and we've entered into an alliance, or we've been in integration with countries that have been very much for years, for centuries, if you will, we've had to deal with this issue. Some have also come into existence and have become rich in that fact. It is something that should be brought closer to the Croatian public. And the fact that there are not enough MPs is probably the result of that statistics that everything that goes through emergency procedures is voted out, that people simply don't have any particular incentive in this situation to talk about these issues. But again, immigration is one of the top themes of the European Union. We can't go through and just coordinate. We are no longer in a situation where we must not know because of the closure of the chapter, the opening of the chapter in haste of some laws and then present them to Brussels. Here's what we've done. We've done this. This should now be a place of real and quality discussion. I think we have potential in this House for that, and I would always suggest it. But of course, just as we left Afghanistan to the Department of Defense, which is a matter of several ministries, so we left this to the Ministry of the Interior, which is a matter of several ministries, and it's a matter that should simply be presented from the government level from all aspects of this matter. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57232	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Franco Vidovic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57233	I would like to thank the Honorable President, dear colleague Bozinovic. So this law goes into emergency procedure simply for harmony. We have taken the obligation to comply with the Directive, i.e. Article 2 of Directive 2011/95EU of the European Parliament and with Council Decision of 13/12/2011. It's on one side. On the other hand, as regards the increase in budgetary resources, I do not think there will be a significant increase in budget resources, because unfortunately, and here today, the representatives of the ministry have also assured us on the board that they do not believe that there will be any excessive increase of immigrants, and therefore even asylum seekers in the Republic of Croatia. So it's just the situation that we have. This law does not bring anything extremely new compared to what was before 2008, 2009, 2010 except for the EU's own harmonisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57234	The reply to the replica, the respected representative Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57235	A very short colleague. I have some experience in the work, and above all, in the executive government. By 31.12. you can organize 10 from now on if you want round tables, invite the media, invite experts, invite people from Europe, invite everyone who worked on this, write about it, and I'm not saying that the debate should take 30 years, but 3 months can.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57236	Thank you very much. We're going to have a follow-up on the MPs' clubs. It is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's turn and the respected representative Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57237	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to issues such as immigration, or asylum, I would agree that a multidisciplinary holistic approach is needed, because the very fact that this belongs to an internal affairs portfolio, and that, in fact, only those who deal with foreign affairs have spoken on behalf of the clubs, I think, talks enough about it. And when we look at the amendments and the addition of the law itself, so what awaits us is the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, but also some other resolutions so that coordination is necessary and it is predicting the immigration strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament. But I really need more space to raise awareness of the importance of this topic. I thought I'd start an exhibition with an answer to my colleague Coleman's question asking if we in the Republic of Croatia were ready for asylum seekers. Technically, we are. As a state of mind, if we were ready to accept asylum, I would say that we are not and I will only talk about facts, which is that if we remember that we recently had a report on discrimination where a survey on the state and mood of Croatian citizens was conducted, so 60% of them also said that they would not give jobs to asylum seekers. And according to this asylum law, asylum seekers have the right to work. And not only do they have the right to work have it regardless of whether they already have a work permit. And if we think of any other cases, so that happened in Kutina where the accommodation center is, so where, say, asylum seekers don't want to serve coffee. Or if we remember the resistance of the local community that was when that accommodation center was being built then we actually know that we have a long job to do in order to open up human minds, or to be much less small-minded. I think that's the right expression, and how many asylum seekers are in Croatia. Based on figures and facts, according to the Home Office's 2010 Home Office records, the asylum requested 290 persons in 2011. 807, and in 2012 1194. Watch out, that's a 6% increase. When you look at war or rate to those who are granted asylum or subsidiary protection as other forms of protection and they are significantly less, so in 2012 21 asylum was approved, 14 were persons in the Republic of Croatia with subsidiary protection, and in 2013. 984 so far, until 1.11 applications submitted. 9 approved for asylum, 4 approved for subsidiary protection. So these are very small numbers, even though by everything the Ministry of the Interior says, we are somewhere on the European average. As far as this law is concerned, in terms of amendments and additions, I would say that it really improves things even though it is about harmonising with directives and regulations either the European Parliament or the Council of the EU. Why do certain things improve? They are therefore improved primarily in the context of the definition of certain social groups not only taking into account gender but also taking into account gender, and the other thing is related to the area of education. I will remind that asylum seekers have the right in the Republic of Croatia as well as Croatian citizens to primary, secondary and higher education, and this is predicted that if they come without their documents, therefore in the process of recognising their scientific and educational qualifications, the prerequisite is not to own these documents but to make an assessment and therefore to allow them to get nostrification and therefore the right to work. I wish we were a country where we actually have wider health care given to asylum seekers because it's only given in emergency medical treatment and if they have specific requirements. Since I am also in the Committee on Migration of the Council of Europe and I have seen that some other Member States with much higher standards therefore give a complete and systematic and every other review and even of those who are on an illegal stay so I think that this should be ensured for such a small number of people and that this really would not be a great burden on the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. And when it comes to the right to education, it is very good that they are all obliged to learn Croatian because I think that in this way after 5 years they have the right to stay in the Republic of Croatia in this status to increase their possibility of integration and integration into Croatian society. And perhaps just another closing sentence, so immigration is a top topic in both the EU and the Council of Europe. Yes, some societies have become rich, I would agree with that, and I think that, regardless of the number of unemployed and no matter what, we must bear in mind that we are one of the oldest European nations, that we are on average 43 years older, that every society in economic terms enters a car if it does not import other products and imports labour. So I really think that we need to work on changing the mental circuit and provide all these people because 31 thousand foreigners live in Croatia and this year, and given that this is a special category, I think we should all work harder together. The SDP club will support this anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57238	Thank you, too, dear colleague. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. It is up to the honourable representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57239	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister. Like other colleagues on the subject, I joined in this debate for a reason because I believe that the topic is more than important and that it needs to be approached very seriously. Mostly not with their own guilt because of various political, economic, social and general social opportunities, many people across the world are seeking refuge in countries where they were not born. Because of the search for a happier and better life, many individuals opt for often and life - threatening journeys and emigrate from their home countries. The experiences of many emigrants throughout history, and so today's majority are traumatic. Every man is born with four natural rights, the right to life, the right to freedom, the right to security and the right to happiness. No one can take those rights away from anyone. States, organised communities, and in particular the so-called countries. Western democracies are obliged to protect and, for example, the Croatian Constitution states in Article 14 that everyone in the Republic of Croatia has rights and freedoms regardless of his race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property, birth, education or other characteristics, and Article 26 states "all citizens and foreigners are equal before courts and other state and private bodies that have public authority". In Article 33 of the Constitution, "a foreign citizen and a stateless person can receive refuge in the Republic of Croatia unless they are persecuted for non-political crimes and activities burdened with the fundamental principles of international law. A foreigner legally located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia cannot be expelled and extradited to another country unless a decision has to be made in accordance with the international contract and law." Modern immigrants sought refuge and a great hope for a better life in the richest countries of the world. So it is one of the most desirable destinations in the EU. Croatia has recently been a member of the EU and is thus being classified as one of the most desirable destinations of various immigrants, or asylum seekers. In the first months of Croatia's membership in the EU and Croatia will probably only be a desirable destination for transfer of immigrants to richer EU countries, but very nearly a few years from now Croatia will become a desirable country for work first, but with time and the removal of many immigrants from various countries. That's what we have to prepare ourselves for, everyone. From central authorities to local self-government. It would be wise to learn from the mistakes of those countries that have passed or gone through bad experiences due to inadequately treated immigration policies and policies against asylum seekers. The proposal for a Law on Asylum harmonizes Croatian legislation with EU legislation, which is important. The law is better, the law is complemented by a significant number of articles, but these amendments and additions make the law more complete and treats the overall problem more systematically, more clearly and in line with EU asylum policy. Perhaps due to the amount of changes, a new law should have been passed entirely. EU countries have a long tradition of immigration, in some countries of considerable importance. Because of the lack of understanding of the domestic authorities of the population, and because of the fear and uncertainty of immigrants, many immigrant communities are ghettoised. We are witnessing that especially in times of economic crisis, the intolerance of the domicile population and immigrants are large and often immigrants themselves are dissatisfied with the overall material situation, and they cause huge riots with great material damage, sometimes human casualties. It would simply be wise to learn from such negative experiences by EU countries. As I said, I am convinced that soon Croatia will become a particularly attractive country for work and housing. I am also convinced that various industries, especially tourism and its complementary industries, will be simply forced to import more labour. And young people today in their modernity are incomparably easier and change places with full confidence for work, residences, changing countries and areas for a more pleasant and better life. If we are not aware enough of the possibility of a larger inflow of foreigners in Croatia, we may end up having major problems both with xenophobia and riots of the settlers, which can result in public dissatisfaction, we may all be dissatisfied and local residents and immigrants. The whole society can be found in problems that are hard and hard to get out of. Therefore, we need to educate all and especially local authorities and locals to understand the needs of immigrants and educate immigrants to understand the local population, culture and customs. Croatia has great experience with emigration, it is a huge Croatian emigration. Due to economic or political opportunities, many of our fellow citizens have emigrated in search of a better life. Unfortunately, in the past, we haven't had that kind of autonomy and economic strength to reduce our citizens' emigration to a minimum with positive measures. It's a similar threat to us today. And their experiences could be precious to us in preparation for possible migration waves. Croatian emigrants certainly know perfectly what problems and misunderstandings they have encountered and come across in their lives for selected new countries. Surely in some areas they are not fully accepted and feel like strangers. Unfortunately, some people are foreigners in the countries where they were born, but that is a whole other topic. People who are not born in Croatia must be welcome to Croatia, they must be accepted by public authorities and by citizens. In order to fully meet this, there is a need for systematic preparation of this specific policy. Special attention must be paid to asylum seekers and political asylum seekers. Only with full understanding, respect and mutual respect for strangers and natives can all enjoy the benefits of life in Croatia. With this proposal, amending and supplementing the Asylum Act, Croatia further regulates its legislation on the problem of entering asylum seekers' work in Croatia. Croatia has also become an EU border country with a huge land but also a sea border, thus changing its position, becoming more complex, demanding as it is in the assessment of the situation. This law removes certain shortcomings both content and nomotechnically. I believe that in the first place one should be human, individual and individual, and its human rights and freedoms. There are numerous examples where public authorities, because of administrative clarity and bureaucratic approaches and their citizens, let alone potential asylum seekers, make life miserable and put them in a state of fear, uncertainty, accident and suffering. We Liberals believe that at all levels it should affect that all regulations and laws relating to citizens of foreigners, asylum seekers and immigration policies should be fully applied to the benefit of individuals or individuals and against administrative bureaucratic experience and xenophobic stigmatisation of members of other countries, peoples and races. This bill is one of the tools in these efforts, and I will accept it as well as the HNS club of Liberal Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57240	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative of Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Deputy Prime Minister with his associates. A colleague, Blazekovic, touched on immigrants' problems. It is important here to note that as a member of the EU, the Republic of Croatia has the longest land border of Europe with the rest of the world that is not part of Europe, that is about 1370km. What is certain that the trend of immigrants will, in the time ahead, be in the increase is very likely that the situation in the Middle East, the situation in Central Africa in the countries of North Africa will not be normalised so quickly and these are essentially the main generators of many immigrants. What I would like to say is that the sooner the Republic of Croatia meets the problem of immigrants, the easier it will be because if we look at indicators of population per square mile in the Republic of Croatia is 75 inhabitants per km square, in Europe it is 115. Croatia will also have significant demographic problems in front of us in time. One way to address this problem is also a quality migration policy, and here I fully agree with my colleague Blažekovic that these processes of the Republic of Croatia must be controlled with certain levers. It's a great possibility for the Republic of Croatia that some of our emigration has gone to other countries, that we should use it to complete demographics, but certainly we must also attract the Republic to possible other immigrants who are different colors.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57242	Thank you very much. Replication response, respected representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, colleague Mandic, for the opportunity to speak a few more words about this extremely important subject. First, I would like to stress once again the importance of this topic that we are discussing so late today, but it is not important to discuss it at all. Surely we are all sorry that there are no more colleagues and colleagues and that the debate is no longer longer, stronger and more content. I would like to point out that one of the things that is necessary and extremely important in immigration policy is the preparation and awareness of citizens of possible problems that can come with a certain wave of immigrants and we have seen even from recent years ago examples of how our fellow citizens reacted to the possibility of building an asylum and this is something that with quality preparations and quality education can be avoided. I would also like to point out, I think that even you fellow Mandic have participated in the round table of the HNS Political Academy where they have tried to shed light on this topic with a number of university professors and experts related to immigration policy and asylum policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57244	Thank you very much. I have to tell the public, nothing's too late, this is a public session, a plenary session, and there's a TV signal for the assembly television. Priorities certainly remain what we had, we started state support, fiscal responsibility etc., so it's perfectly normal to discuss how we debate. I'm sorry that there's a lot of stuff standing in front of us, so we're going to be working in the dynamics Tuesday, plenary session, Friday, so often up to 22 hours, we might have to work because we have really almost now 100 points that are in the parliamentary procedure because today the government has sent about 18 new points for discussion. Thank you very much. You can't be a colleague of Bozinović's because you've picked up your replica. ... There'll be a chance, if we don't discuss it now, you'll get it, by the Rules of Procedure you'll get the chance. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. It's the honorary representative of Sonja König's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57245	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I agree absolutely with you on what you said earlier. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I would just briefly like to convey the experience and unfortunately report of those who deal with asylum because they say there is a certain lack of recognition on the ground and a lack of intention to seek asylum at all. They say there are officials who have negative attitudes towards foreigners and who don't hear them, who don't want to hear them at all, and these officials are key to limiting or granting access. They, in my opinion, and others involved in this process should naturally pass certain educations. They should undergo further training as soon as possible, and that is fortunately prescribed by the migration policy that we have recently brought here, mentioned by previous counterpart Mulić when speaking on behalf of the club. Because xenophobia and racism in our society unfortunately exists. I'm not talking about other phobias. We're probably all aware of them these days. To prevent them, it is not enough just to establish a repressive legal framework, but also to implement a proactive policy through the media, through public campaigns, but also through us politicians and politicians. And if a country should understand at all, and if someone's citizens should understand and accept those who want to find happiness and success elsewhere or those who are forced to live elsewhere because of persecution or because of some accident other than their homeland, then it is Croatia because we unfortunately have both of these experiences. So unfortunately, the experience of people who left their homes to actually save their head during the war, but the experience of people who went, to which they absolutely have the right and should have the right, in Germany, Argentina, Chile, Australia and who knows where they don't, to feed their family or simply find a better life. And I think it's about time we saw and watched our country in another context than most of it so far, to see our country as the country where people come and want to come because they believe that they will live better and in which they want to share the fate of our country with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57246	Thank you very much. One replica, respected representative of Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57247	Comrade König, you have brought here one piece of information that actually confirms everything that we have said before, including me in your discussion. So not that there is a misunderstanding in society but there is a misunderstanding with those who are directly working on this job and therefore these assessments that, I agree, this is a debate, but this debate should have preceded a public debate and it must not stop. We can't just stick around at some lapidal grades because someone from the MUP said there wouldn't be an increase. Based on what analysis? Well, I know, and the coalition colleagues ruled out what I was saying and when we talk about the number and when we talk about transition to other countries, that Croatia will be a transition centre. I remind you again of Dublin 2 which says that regardless of what we are the transition centre they will be returned to Croatia and about this today in Europe on this issue is breaking the spear, and we first hear about it. I think a large part, most of the Croatian public has heard about it for the first time. Mr. President, can I use that now? So if we have a hundred points of the agenda, can we at least do it by day so that we know in advance if any of them came? You know, there are those of us, the vast majority and other obligations and travel, etc., at least in days, here's to getting a little closer to the European standard. It doesn't have to be time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57248	I agree with you. We're doing it because we're trying to do it in order as it's listed in the agenda. If we can determine that by day, it really depends on your representative's interest. Some point I find to be of no importance, and then it appears to be discussed not for one hour but for ten hours. It's a matter of parliamentary decision and interest. So we can go global, I agree. And the work of the board. Thank you very much. The intention is good, and I'd love to, too, but we can't limit it. Some suggest we negotiate how long anyone could have a club. We can make it one of the ideas, but we'll see. Thank you very much. We've completed the list of people reported for discussion on this subject. I call upon the Minister of Honor, Ranko Ostojic, the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57249	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. I'm just going to finally remind you of a few things that I think have caused a misunderstanding here thanks to, of course, technical means. I was able to follow up on all the discussions that were on behalf of the clubs before that so they wouldn't think I hadn't heard what was said. The first draft of the law was done neatly on the Ministry of the Interior website, a complete consultation process with the interested public passed. In addition to that with the very civil society organisations that work together with us from the Croatian Legal Centre, then the Centre for Peace Studies, the Red Cross, and I must mention the UNHCR for the reason that this was one of the things we had to fill in our frameworks. After we adopted, I will now remind you of the migration policy in 2013, 2015. Whether someone thinks this subject is important or not about media recognition and, unfortunately, we share fate there. We as a ministry would be first interested in much more talking and talking about the subject, not just when incidents occur. So I agree with all those who have said that the issue of public opinion I will not use this term to change the mental set, but I will use the term "participation" in that as much as possible to point out the real problems of persons seeking asylum, that is, all that goes with the obligations of the Republic of Croatia, especially now as members of the EU. Also, I have to say that the law will not require additional costs in the budget not to work numbers, because the first figures I think will surprise you a little bit and as far as what's said in here may be more precise, but everything has been so far. So, we had this planned in the budget before, given that the current asylum law that we have been supplementing, harmonising, and today's amendments to the law are, above all, in line with the EU directive for a more precise determination and the things that have been regulated in our Asylum Act, I must remind myself that this is one of the most important topics that are being discussed in the EU and of course that the process of Croatia's EU accession would not have passed if we hadn't had those things in line with all the rules that are necessary. I also have to say that the question of the grade I heard here about the alleged officials not working. As for the MUP and later, of course, the replica that it was, I think it's still a flat-rate score. I need to connect her first of all to those who were once in the Asylum Committee, and I think that Croatia has now made progress in that part because you need to know that if it were exactly what was said, which is how police officers behave, then, of course, every asylum seeker would have no problem with what was provided in the RS court, before the Administrative Court without any problem getting a lawsuit. This means that in Croatia the matter is resolved in two degrees, of course. Our border police course involves a special part of the issue of relations, recognition and ways to avoid abuse of the asylum issue itself. And now I come to exactly what I think is important that we here quite often, quite often, have a mixed discussion about asylum, but without recognising the difference between migrants, asylum seekers and refugees, and I think that in some way something that I have to stay here for reasons that figures on people who are illegal migrants, means those who abuse the passage and cross the state border, and while not applying for asylum is a positive thing is that the figures are in decline, but I'm going to do it a little later because I have the Home Secretary's report, so I'm going to talk about it. That's what I have to mention right now and the contracts about... The mission, because they rely on the part that concerned the implementation of the Dublin Convention and EURODAC. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's a very precise thing. It is the procedures to determine the Member State responsible for examining the asylum application. So, the same right that Germany truly has the right to send and to establish that Croatia is responsible for determining asylum for a particular person has such right of the Republic of Croatia as a member of the EU. Therefore, let us not look negatively and our interest is and we have been applying the European Directive since 1 July, we are in the EURODAC system but it refers exclusively to the exchange of data and we will not have any problem with that. Because illegal immigrants, or those who abuse the crossing of the state border, are in another regime. The issue of asylum is something that is the subject of today's debate, and in that part I will refer to myself that only the cases we have caused it in some way and those questions of Factory 3, Žeževo, so I will try to illustrate it. So, specifically, Jezjev is the center for illegal immigrants. In order to get into Schengen, we must build on the EU's Schengen Facilitity Fund, which has provided us with 120m euros in 2 years in order to enter Schengen, we must build reception centres for illegal immigrants in Trilj and Tovarnik. So that's one topic. The issue of asylum, asylum seekers who were at this point, that is, so far our accommodation facilities that we had in Kutina satisfied the numbers of asylum seekers in the Republic of Croatia and we had only 100 seats. You just heard that the figure grew at one point to almost 1,000 asylum seekers in the Republic of Croatia at the same time. Of course, this trend of growth is felt, but the majority of asylum seekers in a time when they may require, or the time at their disposal, that we must provide for them until they are granted or granted the asylum issue most often leave the Republic of Croatia. They are free citizens who, at that moment when they have made a statement that they are seeking political asylum, we are obliged to provide them with conditions, accommodation, language learning, everything that belongs to them and in every other EU country, and here we follow absolutely all trends. And in this regard, we did not buy that growth, but the Croatian Ministry of the Interior granted the space that was once the Hotel "Porin" which we used to use for accommodation when the situation of the increase in numbers occurred, i.e. before 2011 happened occasionally that it was necessary. The former hotel today is owned by the Republic of Croatia, which has been used by the Ministry of the Interior and at the moment we have enough capacity to cover the number of asylum seekers in the Republic of Croatia even have relatively spare positions. However, we have not fulfilled what our obligation is, we have not separated vulnerable groups. At this point we have mixed categories that must not be together and for this reason we are doing the maximum effort and within 30 days I believe that there will be finished works in Kutina where vulnerable groups will be located, and then we are in a situation that we can say that we have succeeded at this point in bringing the situation and I will say above the level of what many other European countries have for two reasons. One thing is that there are far fewer asylum seekers in the Republic of Croatia than in other countries. And the second opportunity we had here means that in these conditions it was used means the former hotel "Porin" which was already empty and used as state property not to build something new and that instead of paying what we paid earlier to use this hotel now we are bound to organize ourselves as we are. And that's where we'll get a chance to hire a part of the people who are the asylum seekers themselves. I wouldn't be too long. I think it's too much. I must say that in all of our intentions and asylum and everything else I fully support this part of the talks that are, which is that this will be one of the most important topics that will be discussed not only in the EU but also in Croatia, and I will also say why. Because our 1003km border with BiH alone will be very nearly no more, and even now, according to our contract, it is already the EU border, and once we enter the Schengen area under these conditions, you understand that we are not only concerned about the issue of Croatia, but we are adapting to a complete European policy. The waves of people who, after the Arab spring, flee from earlier countries of North Africa later in Afghanistan, Syria and similar truth is that, of course, the trend is such that I just have to correct you, Mr Bozinovic, let's say that Bulgaria is extremely exposed at the moment, and at this moment there are a huge number of precisely those who are in this situation that asylum seekers from these countries. And that is why the specific common European policy and Mrs Cecilia Malmstrom advocated that we finish this story by half next year and resolve the issue of EU common policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57250	Thank you, too, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. We have reports of replicas on your exposure. The first replica and respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vice-President of the Government, so I'm going to use the Replication Institute since I asked the Ministry of the Interior a month ago for data relating to illegal crossings of our borders. I was interested in four counties of Vukovar-Srijemska, Brodo-Posaviska, Sisak-Moslavina and Karlovac. No one told me it was classified, that I couldn't get it. I didn't even get a couple of calls because I needed these data to compare, given that we had this round table where we had prominent people from the EU just to talk about this data that you said about whether the trend was going up or down. So I'm uneasyly surprised, that's what I was looking for through our club via the Parliament that I didn't get that data in a month. I don't think that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57252	The answer to the replica? Nothing. Will you? Here's Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57253	Of course we'll check it out together. I can't believe you can't get that information. And now I'm going to help you right now, or else this is on wwwmup.hr, the public is constantly changing, so there shouldn't be any problems. But these two of us are gonna check together how it might have happened if you didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57254	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. New replica and respected representative Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57255	Mr. Minister, I don't know which part of it you corrected me in because I didn't mention it to Bulgaria once when I was speaking. I just said that according to your data, the largest number of these requests came from the citizens of Afghanistan and Somalia, and I used that to link to yesterday's debate on Afghanistan where I said we needed an inter-resort effort because it was one of the goals of Croatian foreign policy, the situation in that country. Many ministries are involved in this in some way, I'm not sure that everyone has the right number or any existing information that would certainly be good, welcome to conclude at the state level that things are standing and that the situation of relationships is standing, and because we are sending our people there and because there are some key changes happening at this point. The other country is Somalia, so there's a mission there just needs to connect two and two. So I don't know what part of it you wanted to correct me in, because really Bulgaria, which I mentioned for a while tonight, I'm so close to myself. And as for the public debate of the ministry, it is still the minister who dictates it and you can do it, there are both committees and parliamentary representatives, not only NGOs and who are interested in the previous debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57256	Reply to the replica of Deputy Prime Minister Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57257	The esteemed advocate of correction referred to a situation where during your address on behalf of the club, you used the term migrants all the time, and we are talking about asylum seekers today. There is also a big difference between the structure of countries compared to asylum seekers and those who cross the border illegally. That was why I intervened in that part. And I'm saying if I'm also as good at wits when you say the EU's eastern countries, then I guess you don't rule out Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57258	Thank you, too. We've exhausted a list of reports, replicas and replies to the replica. The debate on the text of the law is over, and we will vote when the conditions are met. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Asylum Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 505, the debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like Mr. Evelyn Tonkovic's esteemed Deputy Minister of the Interior to be made manifest. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57260	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57261	Okay. An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57262	In particular, in the business part of the final draft of the law, in the part of which the provisions of the applicable law amending or supplementing it have not been particularly pointed out in paragraph 4 of the applicable law, and given the text of the applicable Law on Asylum ("National Journal"), no. 79/07. and 88/10.) Article 2 is replaced by the following: The Asylum Act shall have five paragraphs and shall, with the provision of Article 2. The final bill changes paragraph 5 in a way that the Government added the words of the Republic of Croatia behind the words, so there was no need to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57263	Thank you very much. Take it back, thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment No 2 to Article 7 of the same committee, Deputy Deputy Minister of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57264	Thank you, Mr. President. Amendment number 2 shall be accepted in part.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57265	An explanation of that in part?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57266	In part, the above-mentioned amendment is adopted, with a view to the nomotechnical arrangement of the text of the final draft of the Law amending and supplementing the Asylum Act, of the provisions of Article 7. For reasons of clarity and precision, the final draft of the law has been amended as follows: administrative dispute before the administrative court may be initiated against the decision of the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57267	I'd like the chairman of the board. Accepts in this form. Thank you very much. Amendment number three to Article 38, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57268	Thank you. Amendment number three is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57269	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number four to Article 41 of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57270	Thank you. Amendment number four is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57271	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number five to Article 51?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57272	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57273	It also becomes an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that most of the votes, 90 votes in favour and 14 votes against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Asylum Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. We will now go to: - Internal Affairs Minister's 2012 report on police affairs. The report was submitted by the Minister of the Interior pursuant to Article 4. The law on police is also the vice-president of the government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the proposal for a report in boxes. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion on the report. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the applicant want to give an introductory explanation? Yeah. Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Interior Minister Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57275	Thank you, Mr. President. Re-honored colleagues and fellow MPs. This is the 2012 report. As you know, the only minister who has ever submitted reports in this House on this matter, although this provision has been in all the Laws on Police since 2001, I personally consider it necessary to do so and that the minister must submit a report, although I will once again submit a report on the conduct of police duties for which I am not responsible as Minister. I don't run the police, I don't command, and I don't have the authority to interfere in any way because the police minister has a very precise position under the Police Act, which means he provides conditions for police work. But well, as it's written in the law, then it would be much better if the Director of Police were that chief police director who could talk a lot better about this, but let's stick to what's in the law. In the 2012 report, we had a situation that in the previous 2011 report, we changed the way in which we measured the efficiency but only in that part of the work of the minister, not the police. And that means how much the budget is compared to the efficiency of the criminal police, and this is the answer to the question of what it means to be good, worse, worst, etc. Because when we get to the next year when I hope to be able to submit a report for 2013 then you will see how right it was to approach the different way of reporting and the different way of evaluating the results without any haircut and without trying to display data on any of the elements in such a way that one crime was shown as having been solved 10, and in fact it was that someone had not paid a salary for 10 months, so it was written to him as 10 times every month for one criminal application. What I'm trying to say is that I've never wanted to create a picture of the work of the MUP or the police in a way that it is falsely depicted, but only by the basis of those results that are actually happening. Also, of course, the sense of security among citizens is the most important indicator and what I can say in this introduction, which is still high and that Croatia is a safe country. For example, in 2000 there were 101 murders in Croatia in 2012, 51 murders reported. Data show that trends have changed. What I insisted on, is that the message of the police was to enter the dark area of crime, to be interested in that part of it, to be as many applications as possible, not to go on the variant of boasting about a smaller number of crimes, not the other way around. It's about getting in as much as possible, and it's about crime, domestic violence, drug crime, and I think it's the most important trend I can say it's made. Also, as far as police efficiency is concerned, one of the important details is to change the structure within the police force itself, and this is what we have in the border police force today, we have 6338 border police officers, of course you know that because we had to meet all those criteria for the European Union. We're changing problems and obligations, and just a few years ago, we only had 3,200 cops in the border police. So when you share such statistics then you must consider that we have had a serious increase because we are preparing to enter the Schengen area. Also, what I think is other than the main objectives of the figures that are presented inside are very precise and are regularly published on our website. So everything you've seen in this regular one, you can see on our websites, and that's what we think is the right approach, and that exactly that kind of statistics must be available because they're not just a matter of pictures in the police, they can also serve this Parliament, politicians, as well as in this case that we just heard about preparing for certain decisions. Just about this topic of illegal migration, as I have announced, I will mention it, it is about the fact that through the Balkan route, and this confirms the frontex, there was a situation that we had a lot of illegal border crossings in 2012, meaning 2012. 6839 but this year we're recording precisely thanks to the activities that we've had contracts on... the fall. This is something that means that in these moments, the Republic of Croatia is doing very well, in that part of its work and the frontex, which is the one who is in charge right in the European Union records positive trends that the Balkan route is exactly the one to be avoided, although we have, of course, over 3,000 captured persons who have crossed the border illegally. I think it's also important to point out that in matters of success of work itself, I say it's something that we can always measure in one way or another, security is an interest above all else, I'll repeat it as I always say, no matter what power we should be interested in having as much quality police work as possible and in that part of me and submitting reports and discussions and what you're going to say I think right now by directing us to do as much quality work together. Otherwise, in the Ministry of Interior 31.12.2012, 26729 employees were employed. We are one of the largest ministries, and what is particularly important, and that is our willingness to ensure what is sure I am a common national interest, and that is building a system that we can apply to Schengen in two years. In joining the Schengen area, except that we have fulfilled all the obligations that have been written in monitoring since the harmonisation of the legislation, and I have to point out 98% of the underlaws of the Ministry of the Interior had to be resolved, we have solved the fleet with 51 vessels. About the staffing of the set means to meet everything that is related to the border police, the national maritime data collection centre of 24/7, the acquisition of technical equipment fully planned according to those resources that will be allocated to us, and of course not all of them, I must say that these 12 million euros that we receive from the Schengen facilities fund are not the only funds and should not be ignored all that Croatia has invested in police work so far. On the issue of crime, that the figures that I have already presented on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security also want to highlight the number of less fatalities and such a trend continues. The murders are already being talked about. As far as crimes against the harm of children and minors are concerned, that is something that is insistent, which is a matter of such crime, which is of particular interest to us. 3133 criminal offences have been committed for the protection of children and minors. I think the criminality committed by minors here happened 557 times, which is a worrying figure even though that number is 25.2% less than it was a year ago. I would also mention, which I would like to say is important in this preventive action, I will not go on individual cases, but I think that the activity itself is particularly in this segment of entry into the dark figure, which is the primary goal of the police and also in the corrupt part of the financial investigations and money laundering, given that we have a significant increase there. That is what the strategic decree is. In international cooperation, I must point out that for 2012 the Republic of Croatia has been assessed by the president of Interpol as not one of the most active members of Interpol, given the number of procedures it has published, carried out and I think it is one important thing for all of us. Here's me on my side in the opening so much. I believe I'll be able to say my opinion after the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57276	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, we have one replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57277	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Frankly speaking regardless of any legal provision, I think that today in this House of Commons he should have been the director for the simple reason, the Director of the Police, for the simple reason that you've taxed some things in the report so that someone who hasn't read the report in principle gets a completely false impression and a bad impression of police work that I just don't think it's true. And when you spoke to Schengen, then you should talk about something that, something new, something that's separate, which requires huge material resources, which requires a large number of new employees and their equipment, education, etc. And I think that regardless, so without intending to give you any way I think about that part of the opening argument to this House, as it is done and in a number of other points, it would be better if he were the Chief Director of Police and he would probably say a lot of things that the MPs are interested in. Because it's certain that both the fight against corruption and the fight to prevent money laundering where the main role is run by the office, but normally with people who work in the department, who work in the police department. I think they're things that interest MPs, and I think they're things that should just be said here. Because I'm saying to one of these kind of flat-rate reports that you've submitted as a resolute minister jumping off the topic, it just leaves one false impression. And in the end, if there are any wrong provisions about who submits the report. 'Cause look, no matter who puts up with it, I think there should be whoever's responsible for it here in the House, and the police department's still in charge, and you're like a resolution minister, you know what part of the responsibility you're in. So, in that part of my remark. That's why I did answer at the end of the line because I was just expecting your different introductory explanation but that's how it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57278	Thank you. Would you like to answer? Minister Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57279	Dear Mr. Schucker, you see, we agreed a little while ago that I would like it to be the Chief Director of Police who will give that explanation, but I guess you and I must respect the law. The law says that the Home Secretary is reporting to this Parliament and I think that's a good thing that's never happened, at least since I've been here, that I'm not the one who puts up with it. Secondly, I was surprised you didn't read the report because you probably had this part where I was just trying to open up a space for as much discussion as possible. It's usually 72 pages, along with its contributions, all the statistical indicators, so if you'd seen it then you'd probably never consider saying it's a flat-rate rating. I have no intention of giving you the material in the opening statement to discuss it, because I expect a serious parliamentary representative to have a very good look at it. And he was made on the basis of all the statistical indicators, in which it was all beautifully written. I repeat 72 pages and I can't convince you in these short lines. I was just trying to get the main trends out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57280	Injury of Rules of Procedure Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57281	Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, so Mr. Minister was saying something I didn't say. I didn't say the report was flat-out, but that what you said was flat-out and that's a big difference. And otherwise I read the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57282	No, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You haven't even called in an article that's been hurt. You know it's not. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first in line is the club of independent agents. The colleagues Grubisic and Cain are not present, so they lose the right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Davor Bozinović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57283	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here is also the clue and what Mr Schucker was saying, we really think that the report is more in general, not sufficiently precise so that the question of how much we can get real insight into the work that is currently not even under the adequate level of parliamentary and professional supervision, which unfortunately leaves the possibility of various interpretations of events including these recent ones when it leaves the possibility of harming and violating guaranteed citizens' rights. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on police affairs and powers, since the report does not structure data on the number of citizens and connections for which insights into the location and telecommunications contacts have been made. There are no data on the structure of the criminal offences for which insights into contacts and movements have been made. I also do not think that it is precise that there are no data on the spending of financial resources, especially when it comes to payment funds, i.e. for salaries, as well as information on the exercise of the tender for managers. I don't know if it's true that there are some thousands of lawsuits that could in the future create a obligation to pay lost disputes similar to those in 2001 when it was about 500 million kuna. A fellow Shuker here mentioned an important issue of Schengen. Schengen is mentioned but only at 59th I think there somewhere near the end of the report and the government has set as one of the first priority goals that the Republic of Croatia wants to achieve after entering full EU membership. This goal has been set for a period of two years, even if I am not mistaken for your promotion, promoting to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Minister is justified by the fact that it is important to meet this task and that you, of course, be at the head of this job relating to the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the Schengen area. The fact that we don't see it here doesn't necessarily mean it has to be, but I'm sure the government is approaching that goal that you set for two years in order to probably point that out. Secondly, I think that the report also lacks an important part, i.e. that we cannot be satisfied with the state of information security because, as on the one hand, the issue of immigration, the issue of asylum is a very hot topic of EU talks, which is also cyber-defense, so information security. There is simply no committee-related meeting, in Parliament, I am talking about the EU, related to the development of a European security and defence policy, without talking about the state and perspectives of development, etc. Cybernetic security. This is also important because of this, we also talked about it yesterday on the topical clock because Croatia as a member of the EU, given the latest indicators relating to the business of small and medium-sized enterprises opens up the possibility that companies with dual purpose, and some of them also cooperate with the Ministry of the Interior, that is, with the Police and other ministries, apply to these funds, precisely when it comes to raising the level of information security and, given that both directors and workers in those companies are not taking part in council meetings and meetings being held within the European Commission, I think that the ministries are the ones who are obliged to point to them new trends, new opportunities opened to them in this regard. However, we have here and rightly think we can ask ourselves whether we have a real strategy at the state level, and this also falls within the scope of, of course, the Deputy Prime Minister who would define the competences and obligations of state bodies and the private sector. So again we come to the private sector in the protection of computer networks. The MUP successfully co-operates with members of other EU countries, however, I would point out here that most of them right now have this strategy to combat cyber threats, or cybercrime. As far as I know there's only one department in the MUP, although it specializes in high-tech crime, but there's a small number of workers in it, and they're mostly criminals, which is probably missing. You know, since at least one part of this section should be participated by experts in the field of information, computer science, engineering mathematics and related science and technical studies. So here are some of the reviews of this document. As we have initially found, there are shortages, there are too many generalities, and I will take advantage of this opportunity to return to Bulgaria when that crisis was in Lampadoza, you have listed a number of countries that you have called the southern EU members and you have pronounced them as Italy, Greece, Cyprus, Spain and guess Bulgaria. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57284	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57285	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. With this report by the Minister of the Interior on the conduct of police affairs in 2012 the Minister, as he himself said, fulfils the obligation laid down in Article 4. The police law is based on a report by the minister on police work even though it does not manage its work, since police management is in the jurisdiction of the chief police director. In 2012 in order to achieve the main strategic objective, and it is certainly a reduction of the risk of criminal behaviour, the police directed the overall activity to 4 priority targets and this is evident from this report. Improve... criminal behaviour, improve crime prevention, increase road safety and strengthen safety at the state border in air traffic and navigation. Police affairs at the MUP are organised in the police department and 20 police administrations based in the county and city of Zagreb. Further, the system of branches is through 185 police stations of which 134 basic, 20 traffic, 14 border, 6 airport and 6 maritime stations. Within this system, 31245 jobs have been systemised, of which 25,307 jobs of police officers, and 21339 jobs of police officers have been filled. An average of 1 billion 497 million kuna has been spent to achieve a programme to prevent punitive conduct. In its work, police are guided by the principle of public work through a picture of its actions by her police officers in direct contact with citizens, but also through a picture created in the media about police work. Surely, according to its nature, the most operational public administration body, acting on the Foreign Policy Platform of the Government of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has special tasks and responsibilities on the international agenda. We can say that Croatian police are working with all police organisations of EU countries with countries in the environment and are integrated into the world's police system through Interpol membership. The first specific goal is to highlight improving the prevention of criminal behaviour. It is visible from this report that 91,168 violations were recorded in 2012 in all regulations governing the issue of public order and peace, which is 949 or 1% less than in 2011. Police seek to be present permanently in critical places in order to prevent direct repression of as many criminal acts as possible in a timely manner. Under the law, violations against public order and peace account for 26.6% and by other laws 72.9% and by local authorities' decisions 0.5%. What we should be particularly concerned about is the frequency of violations under the Family Protection Act, 14,874 cases and 16.3% of all violations, respectively. In the fight against such behaviour, it is clear that not only the police can be involved but the whole community needs to be even more involved in the future. Police received 331,275 announcements of events or about 907 a day in 2012 through the operational services of police departments and police directors. The Police Directorate's project, "Police are publicly active by the public," received a positive result as well as an anti-corruption fax and a phone that was received about 260 calls from citizens who then referred and advised on how to proceed. In addition to these activities, police have carried out tasks in the description of the work of the intervention police through intervention units. Compared to 2011, the number of assistance from employed employees was reduced, and thus spent hours 100 thousand 727 working hours, which was reduced even by 32.7%. The means of coercion were used 870 times by intervention police officers and each time consistently applied the principle of necessity justifying the use of force to the limits to achieve legal effect. In 2012, 17.685 public gatherings were held. On a smaller number, i.e. There was a disturbance in public order and peace at 116 gatherings and 1437 people were detained. As a result of the riot, 168 criminal charges and 1507 criminal charges were filed. Unfortunately, 17 police officers were injured in ensuring public gatherings, one of which is more serious. In ensuring all forms of public gathering, it continued by reducing the number of police officers involved, i.e. the increase in the number of directors and the formation of the director's office, which falls in principle on the burden of the organiser, not on the back of taxpayers. During 2012, 13.090 search and publication for persons of whom 12.665 were suspended, and on the track is looking at the previous year 8,750. Special police are doing police work in high-risk situations such as kidnappings, hostage situations, dangerous pursuits, dangerous arrests, risky insurance, demonstrations. During 2012, special police officers performed 501 operational tasks. The training plan for all specialities has been fully achieved, which has clearly been positively reflected in the performance of all official tasks. In 2012 70 explosions were reported in our country, which is unfortunately an increase of 22.8% compared to 2011. These explosions, unfortunately, also recorded human victims. 21 people died while a serious physical injury was sustained by 11 people. Of the 19 killed in the explosions of formal explosives, 14 people only activated them. So they committed suicide. The police also received 75 anonymous tips about setting up an explosive device and in all cases it was fortunately false tips. In addition to these police, she participated in the insurance of persons, facilities, space, inspection controls, and conducted international police cooperation. The second special goal of the police in 2012 is to improve the fight against crime. Over the past year, 110,068 crimes have been reported which is about 3% lower than in 2011. Of these, 72,171 are the crimes for which the procedure is initiated under official duty and these acts account for a drop of 4.6%, 56.9% were resolved. If taken and found in 2012 the perpetrators of 1533 crimes were reported in earlier years, then the resolution coefficient goes up to 59%. In 2012, 788 acts of organised crime were recorded, and 485 people committed these crimes. The material damage done by these crimes was estimated at 21 million 267 thousand kuna. 5994 crimes of economic crime have also been detected, suspected by 2438 persons, 290 legal and 2148 natural persons. Compared to the previous year, the number of crimes is down 18% and the suspects by 27.7%. Police attention was also focused on curbing corruption, financial investigations and money laundering, high-tech crime, curbing the gray economy, applying the Law on Legal Liability, International Activity and Obligations. The corruption crimes have been reported in 825, of which 48.7% of the crimes committed by abuse of position and authority, 24.6% of giving, 23.8% of receiving bribes, while all the other acts in these groups are 2.9%. The extent of the evil involved is evident from the report. The material damage caused by corruption is more than half a billion kuna. The focus of the anti-corruption effort remains on corruption in the public sector, companies in part or in full ownership of the state and corruption in units of local or self-government, as well as on the suppression of internal corruption. In fact, the police rule is that tolerance to corruption is zero in its own ranks. In 2012, police also dealt with the prevention of money laundering and financial investigations, high-tech crime has been the most frequent work that has cost fraud, the suppression of the gray economy, ie. By suppressing drug abuse. 7295 drug abuse crimes have been recorded and 5545 people are suspected of these acts, of which 427 minors. During 2012, significant drug confiscation was carried out in the Republic of Croatia and abroad in cooperation with the Croatian police, resulting in the arrest of significant members of criminal groups or individuals involved in drug trafficking and drug abuse. All of this had a significant positive echo in public. In terms of general crime involving all crimes of violence, property crime and all other criminalities that are not classified in previous categories, 56385 acts were reported, which is 2.7% less than in 2011. In this segment, there are a large number of works with the unknown perpetrator, and there is a large coefficient of post-disclosure of 34.6%. The crimes as said by the minister against life and the body are lower by 6.6%, out of 51 reported killings, 50 or 98% were resolved. Compared to last year's killings were more than 3 cases, or 6.3%, respectively. There have been 100 attempted murders of which two remain unsolved. These are 23 cases, or 18.7% lower. 79 rapes have also been reported to have left two unresolved. Property crimes account for 75.2% of total crime. The resolution coefficient is 31.6% and these crimes are up 1.2%. Crime of special security significance has been reported through 83 crimes from this group, which is 39% less than 2011. It should be noted that no acts of terrorism or any other crime that could lead to a link to terrorism have been recorded. In this section, the decline in the total number of criminal offences is mainly due to the preventive action of the Police in June 2012 on the occasion of maintenance of gays coming to Split in 2012 when no infringements of Article 108 have been reported. Criminal law, unlike in 2011, when 22 such offences were recorded. During 2012, 16 crimes were reported against the values protected by international law, or war crimes that occurred during the Homeland War. Criminal protection of youth and family includes criminality to the harm of children and minors, crimes committed by children and minors, domestic violence. During 2012, 3133 crimes committed against children and minors were discovered and reported, which is 24.7% lower than in 2011. Most crimes against marriage, family and youth are 59.4%, against sexual freedom and sexual disorder 10.8% and against life and body 0.6%. Children who are not responsible, or 381 children, committed 557 crimes. The total number of children's crimes has been reduced by 25.2%, and the share of offenders... has been reduced. Juvenile persons have been reported for 3616 crimes which is 2.1% less than 2011. The third special objective of the police in 2012 is defined through an increase in road traffic safety, which includes a traffic control problem as well as the work of the mobile unit Transport Police. For the fourth year, the segment has continued its trend of reducing the number of traffic accidents and the most severe injuries. Compared to 2011, the number of traffic accidents was reduced by 12.7% and 6%, respectively. So 25 people died less than in 2011. The number of registered drivers increased, but the number of registered motor vehicles decreased by 5.4%. Unfortunately, the most common cause of injury remains irregular and inappropriate. A report that is quite extensive, as the minister said, also provides data on all other police activities, border guarding, cross-border crime, safety of navigation and the like. What characterizes this report is the application of the new method of efficiency of police work applied for 2011/2012. a will also be applied in the 2013 report which differs from the method of use of previous years. We stress that further improvement is needed, that it is necessary to go to global and European models to measure police performance because the model we are currently using shows certain shortcomings that are described in the report. We at the SDP Club hold that this report is more complete in terms of data and transparency than in previous years, that police work is exhaustive and realistically presented and we fully support the Home Secretary's 2012 report on police affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57286	Thank you. The replica of my colleague, Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57287	Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Mr. Vidovic. In your discussion, you were talking about fires and explosions. It's not the Minister's touch. I have to say here on behalf of the firemen or the Croatian Fire Department, we saw the number of fires in 2012, or much higher than in 2011. Even 90% of them were more burnt-out surfaces. This year, it's a much, much better situation. But I'd like to tell the minister here. For two years, we have already given regulations, sublaws, a proposal that the Croatian Fire Department has just made to improve the state of protection against fire. They've been there for a long time and these are the rules that have been in force since '95. A year. So it's inevitable that we need to change these regulations as quickly as possible, we've made suggestions, so I'm asking the Deputy Minister here to analyse these regulations and, preferably, to adopt this as soon as possible so that here we can improve the pure profession. Because I say the existing rules are from '95. For years, much has changed both in the structure and in the technical equipment and on fire training and all this requires that these rules be brought as quickly as possible. These are the rules that mean life to fire. Well, here's my appeal and I'm asking the Deputy Minister to consider it. I know fire here isn't a day of impression and space, it's not the primary police activity. We have the State Department for Protection and Rescue but the existing Fire Department is still asking for the minister to bring in sublaws, so please and I appeal that they are brought in to help us in our work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57288	The answer to the replica Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57289	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, therefore, as far as the fire is concerned, they are indeed a major problem and not only materially. Unfortunately, we're also witnessing the deaths of people in the fires themselves. Let's just think of the Korean tragedy and some other tragedies. I believe the minister will appreciate what you said. But you've been asking a question since '95. Which is why it hasn't changed so far. But in any case, since the minister is open to suggestions, I know it from my own experience, I believe that he will respect this well-intentioned proposal of yours, and that in the future we will get very soon those regulations resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57290	We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague of Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57291	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Minister, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Well, this report is very extensive and I think it's good material. It brings out, of course, a summary of our police's work activities. However, we will all agree that it is very difficult in this kind of material to gather all the activities that our police are doing, all the good that we are doing to protect all of us or our communities. I support this report precisely because it is visible from the report itself, and also from the opening statement of the minister objectively reporting without any haircuts. However, the results should always seek to be better, can be better, and I am sure that our police in future work will also strive to do so under difficult circumstances, and this is also the lack of financial resources to make more efforts to improve our overall security. And I'm sure that's how it's gonna be. I repeat that we cannot see in the materials the full and preventive and repressive measures of the police, but the material is enough that we can express our satisfaction and that we can accept it. When I say that not everything is covered I will mention both very briefly and the councils, reports by the Council on Crime Prevention, because in this way it is a good practice, it is a good move by the police to establish because in this way we have good co-operation between local self-government and our police to come to common goals. When we ask today, today is actually in the report mentioned by the minister that it is a very important impression of the citizens. Absolutely. We are, the police are here because of citizens, it is an important impression, and when you ask the citizens, the goal must always be the same and the goal of the police and the aim of the citizens and the goal of us politicians and the goal of us probably all who should participate in the community, which is that the security forces must be even better detected by the appearances of security and peace violations in the community, and especially the bearers of the phenomenon. Because here we are today, we are witnessing these very things these days, and I think we should work in that direction, and that's just commendation on that path. Of course, we all have to help as politicians, either as members of the community, we need to be supportive. There should also be a material assumption, there should be legal frameworks or tools in order to be able to say the picturesquely produced product here, and in the police the product is actually called safety. I'm not gonna mention them, I'm not gonna mention them, I'm gonna repeat them because I can see that a colleague of mine has brought up all these indicators before. It is good to analyse whether the police are going in the right direction or what changes to the legal frameworks we must do not only in the police but also in all other segments and in other systems. But I'd be here if I were to come from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, I'd mention here a report from my police department. I will say that a significant decline is the number of crimes committed by minors because it is somehow my area of interest, but it is also the result of a whole series of preventive and repressive measures that the police have taken to protect minors. In fact, since 2010 when the whole series of violence began, I have been telling me because we as a local community have been involved in cooperation with the police, started a package of measures to prevent violence within which the greatest emphasis was placed on the education of children of parents... the service and the sensitization of the public to the problem of violence, i.e. as part of the education involving employees of other relevant services such as the family center, then the Institute of Public Health of Dubrovnik-Neretva County has just pointed out the legal obligation to report criminal acts and infringements of the violent character committed by minors but has also been warned of many factors that are just taking advantage of such aggressive behaviour as the consumption of alcoholic beverages, etc. During 2012 in cooperation with educational institutions in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, preventive programmes were implemented, diverse so that I did not now list them and various campaigns, then it was also done in kindergartens and in other educated institutions I said. In addition to that in 2012, the preventive programme "Alcohol no thanks" was implemented, so we know that alcohol addiction or alcohol consumption in minors is very pronounced. In addition to the number of preventive and educational measures, the Police Department of Dubrovnik-Neretva County during 2012 of course paid particular attention to the supervision of children under 16 years of age in night outings and would mention that there is also a violation of Family Law 95th and gives us a basis to work further to help parents and to involve more and more parents in education. I'd say something else about the seizure, we see in this report that it's been quite seized and that it's to be commended. From 2010 to today, impressive results have been achieved right in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Now, not to mention when 26 people were captured in 2011, however, a large number of intoxicated drugs of as many as 12 large people were seized and thus the attempt to smuggle across the state border was prevented, more than 300kg of marijuana, 21kg of hashish and almost 25kg of heroin. Finally, at the end of 2012, the initial information held by the Department of Drugs of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County of the Police Administration began an international criminal investigation and we know from the media that there were about 55 arrests somewhere in May 2013. So here's what I thought was very good at commending good things and giving them one of those impulses to do good work. That's why I mentioned our Dubrovnik-Neretva County, or police administration, which has also received recognition from the drug department's chief to be an example to all other police administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57292	Next Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57293	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. I support this report and I find first of all the two greatest values that it has for all of what my colleagues have already said before me, but I would especially like to apostrophe that its value is in that it is an objective report and that we can read not only in the structure that police are set up, depolitizing the police. It's something we need so that the police can carry out their constitutional and legal tasks. Of course it's also important, it's the minister himself pointed out, but I think it's worth repeating, that it's just astounding and astounding that so far we haven't had the first time the minister has had a chance to speak here and file a police report for which the Director of Police is directly responsible. And instead of particularly emphasising it on all clubs because it's an objective fact that is not being suppressed by anything, it's being reduced by the fact that there's not a director yet. But you wouldn't pay much attention to that. As far as the report itself is concerned, it is so extensive but not only in general but in detail. It talks about how individual murders were committed and I'm going to start and actually, and the gross of my debate would concentrate precisely on the most serious crimes primarily on crimes against life and the body, and there we have to say one good fact, which is that 98% of these crimes are revealed. What we must also openly say is that we face this problem where most people get hurt first of all by women. It's not on behalf of the family, it's in the family that the murders of all the murders are 52.9%, so nearly 53 murders start in the family. The attempt is 34% less than the total number for a very small number of attempts. What does that mean? That it's a tight space that the victim is just counting on solidarity in the family that has nowhere to go, to show how insecure a place unfortunately it is most often for women. So much for those who are glorifying certain things and not seeing and making a bear service, I would say to all the negativity and negative phenomena that happen in these places, and here is this most severe crime. We've had an increase in the number of rapes, however, they've also been found in a large percentage... severe crimes, crimes of robbery. It has already been noted here that the largest number of criminal offences are those against assets that amount to more than 75% in total and we need to know that our criminal legislation which, with the mildest forms, has more than 500 types of criminal offences. A criminological assessment, as reported in the report itself, is almost a criminological assessment of all countries. Somehow, only one-fifth of all crimes and even those bawling lights come out. But what is an encouraging data is this unequivocal fact that we have a drop in crime rates and that's 3% in total mass, and by official duty, so these are more serious crimes that ex-sofo conduct them we have by 4.6% which encourages and what it says is precisely about the crucial conditions and characteristics of the police that this work must be depoliticized to the extreme extent that it is already being supervised. What I would also say is what is seen, which is that the Penal Code also works so that we have a reduction in the number of these dangerous minor crimes in relation to drug abuse, but now it has increased, or increased, I would say the discovery of those crimes of abuse and drugs as referred to in paragraph 3, and these are those who are more complex, which are related to sales and reselling. So that's how we really came to the witness, and we better shape this crime precisely in order to achieve the goal and purpose of detecting the most difficult forms of serious and most serious forms of drug abuse. It's signifying that we were in our early years before we had no crime at all to launder money, then we had one. Now we have three people found guilty of the crime of money laundering. It is an extremely complex crime which is always and often related to an foreign element. We need to know that in Europe there is no more than one or two detected perpetrators of these crimes, but that's not what I think it says about gray numbers in this area, and that says how hard it is to trace this new sophisticated form of money laundering, which is often in the ideal acquisition of many other very serious crimes, and which are often linked to politics. Computer crime is something that has been inevitable and expected to occur, but it's also just as effective. There are significant increases in criminal offences related to the illegal transfer across the state border, we have various crimes from those less dangerous to those associated with the organised group, so these are the most difficult forms, but it also encourages the discovery of such crimes to a significant percentage. So the question is whether it's always an increase or an enhanced discovery we'll never know about. But it is good that what has been done in the greater number in the greater percent is revealed regardless of what will eventually be and what will be the report of the growth or reduction of crime. I will not continue to continue, but I would especially like to emphasise that we would be safe, because police are doing wide-ranging diapazon work from that prevention to the repressive part, and there is a whole lot of jobs and tasks that work outside of that part that is closely tied to a later criminal trial. But in order for the police to do their job, a police officer must be safe. And that is why all those who speculate and play different political games and tricks where Croatian hands as a great act of patriotism put on the neck of a Croatian policeman we must stand up and say no because it is an attack on each of us. Every cop is the protector of my freedom of my greatest and most precious rights from dignity to property to the protection of life and body. Not only what's currently happening, but here's what happens if we look at the Internet on different media, it's also in written media, here's the assault on a cop, the car went over a cop's foot because he's being rerouted, the Zagreban hit himself with a car on a cop, ripped off a cop and stoned official vehicles, drunk, insulted cops, a respected lawyer hit a cop on an ipslon, a drunk 60-year-old drove a highway and attacked a cop, got drunk on a speedboat, fought and attacked cops, sent them to prison, and tried to kill him with explosives, etc. Therefore, what is being developed in all civilised countries, and so is Croatia, and we want to continue to develop this degree of democracy and protection, that the attack on a police officer is considered to be some of the most difficult forms of man attack on man because this man, the police individual and those in general protect all of us. Therefore, we have not come to the fact that we must protect and protect the very ones who protect us. I mean, those who are playing with Croatian freedom, Croatian democracy and every single person's life because even such a person who is now pointing forward by affirming some of his views that anything happens to her would happen to anyone? A cop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57294	Thank you very much. And colleague Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57295	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, Mr. Deputy Minister. So here I agree that this is, this is a very extensive but also very high-quality report that warns of important problems. There is probably no less cause for concern than in the past 2.4 or 6 years. If we look at data and statistics that apply, for example. The young people I personally consider to be an extremely big and important social problem have been worrying for years. And although this report brings, for example. statistics saying that the total number of children's crimes has been reduced by 25.2%, that the share of violent crimes has been reduced, that the number of crimes in part of the criminal protection of children and minors etc., etc. So that's statistics that are very important, but trends that are related to young people and that talk about problems about them don't change drastically and worst that could probably happen to us is that we're kind of dumb observers of all that. I tried to collect different information about young people, and when you put them on a pile like that, it sounds pretty bad, for example. that 3133 minors were victims of a crime, that 571 were victims of domestic violence, that 24 were raped, that 49 were victims of paedophiles, that nearly 200 were beaten, that over 300 were inflicted by serious physical injuries to others, that 526 were caught with drugs, that 2065 were involved in theft. A particularly difficult fact is that 68 minors committed suicide and 10 of them were less than 14 years old. Despite all this, minors are constantly filling in the National Missing Persons records. So it's no secret, the media is full of it, that kids spend late nights lurking in the streets, drinking, drugging in parks or being victims or being perpetrators of violence. But it's interesting once again to say that last year is 2700, so nearly 3,000 young people were found in an unauthorized night out between 23 hours and 5 o'clock in the morning. It is interesting to know what number of parents in the late night or early morning received a call from the police to come to the police to pick up their own child. So it's interesting to know how many of them came for their own child, but it's also interesting to know how many didn't come for their own child because as absurd as that sounds, it does. So, of course, the police can neither sanction such behavior nor children nor parents. The only thing the police can do is make an informed conversation with their children and their parents and show them, to draw attention to the provisions of some laws, e.g. The family law on banning nightouts and what can be done is to inform the Centre for Social Care which, under its powers, can then express measures of family and legal protection. It would be interesting, of course, to know whether or not the centres and how many cases they've dealt with in relation to children found in unauthorized night outs, but of course you can't give us that information. For years, we have been warning about the rise of violence among young people and simply need to think about how to predict violent activity and avoid headlines. Here's a colleague, Ingrid, reading another kind of title, my peer hitting me, and others yelling at her, killing her, beating her, beating a high school student, all I remember is being shoeed on the ground, girls fighting, other students cheering and shooting, etc. That's what we witness every day. So taking care of young people really has to be a lot bigger. I remember when we were here a few years ago, a large part of our colleagues remembered that, four years ago, they probably asked for or submitted an impelation about violence against young people and among young people. We have waited a long time for the debate on this important topic to be launched in the Croatian Parliament. If we had then approached her with much more respect to say so, perhaps today the situation would be at least a little different. I read somewhere that young people today are thought to be played, to be considered played by their own families, by friends, by the society they live in. If it's true that we ignored them and played them like that, there's no doubt that it'll come back to us as a boomerang and it's probably happening to us today. Without a network of centres, without many more preventive programs, young people are on the street and are simply being realized, it is their second home, it is their second family and it is an increasingly common phenomenon. Before that, we really shouldn't close our eyes. I don't think I can even say that it's 5 to 12, that it's long gone. Finally, it is also a fact that young people and it must not forget to take on the patterns of behavior they learn from us, who learn from our own family, we set an example for them, we are an example for good things, but we are also an example for them and for bad things. And in the most difficult times of my deep conviction, times of crisis should be extremely responsible for my own future, I dare say so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57296	Comrade Davor Bozinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57297	Here's what my colleague Jerkovic said, so we have a number indicator here. What I'm interested in, but really on the trail of these phenomena especially of this young generation that we can do, what the ministry can do in terms of whether professional publications. What are the most common forms of crime and really opening one serious debate, one institutional or inter-resorial debate about what to do. Because if this doesn't come down to just some statistic we're going to pass it here in Parliament today, there's going to be a vote on Friday. Those data should somehow be processed in a professional and scientific way if you want. There are these papers, however, right at the level of the institutions whether the Parliament, whether Government. I think that would be good. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57298	Replication response, Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57299	Thank you very much. Comrade Bozinović, you're absolutely right. The worst thing that can happen is that statistics ultimately remain just statistics that have absolutely no use for anything. The first step a society must take is to recognize the problem. This is not since yesterday, this is a trend that is not even the specifics of Croatia. This is the trend that's in the world. So, it's spread over Croatian borders, and somehow it seems to me that something has come to us with a little delay. So that something later appeared to us than in other European societies, for example. What's extremely important to me is prevention, curative is much more complex, curative is much more costing. But what it really shouldn't cost us as a society is to invest in young people at the right time as well as in everything in life. Timing is the key thing. Health care. Well, I think you actually have the answer to the question that you're kind of, you didn't ask me, you put it like this together. So health education should be a very important segment in child education and education. You should learn many good and positive things there. I believe that we agree that we agree that this health education should be introduced as soon as possible, but in a quality way that really is implemented and that preventive programmes in schools are really implemented and that teachers have time to do so, to be motivated at the end and to be paid, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57300	Minister Ranko Ostojić's closing statement, please welcome the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57301	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I am, perhaps, perhaps best to start here from the end, given that there has been a reference to this very important segment, which is how and what should be done specifically by the Ministry of the Interior, and perhaps one specific example that speaks of how statistics can still serve us. It is this 3133 criminal offences for the protection of children and minors mentioned during 2012 that are a continuous decline which in the last 5 years since 2007 is 42.1% less. One of the reasons is precisely what Mrs. Šimac-Bonačić mentioned about the action of prevention and the Prevention Council, which are extremely active in the vast majority of local self-government units which have recognised this as an advantage, as a situation in which joint work with the police can achieve very significant excerpts. What's the job of the police, of course, is that they report crimes, and the figures that we just mentioned here in this very precise report and the proposal of whether or not it is true, because I only mention here a summary of 381 children who, of course, cannot be held responsible for 557 crimes. That's what's worrying. Of those 557 crimes almost 20% or 19.2% were children, pardon were acts that were violent. That's what we read, that's what we see in the papers and what I think is important enough to point out. And when we link it to the domestic violence where we also record a 2.1% drop in 2012 I also think that the Family Code and its application are still a reduction in the number of cases recorded by children where, in fact, there is a lack of parental care in banning nightouts. For his part, the M.O.P. and the police are doing their part of the job. The prevention councils are the right way, and, of course, as they always say, what I think is missing, there is again the question of the consciousness, the co-operation of schools, the parents, all those who are responsible, and I believe in what, of course, government each, and also parliamentary representatives first and best help, and that is the better standard of that less problems. I think we can agree on that very simply. I'm just going to say that I don't want to stress specifically about precision anymore because I have 27 pages here just a summary that I probably should have read but I didn't. And as for all that's in there, I haven't heard any arguments that would have knocked down any data that was brought in. As for the remarks Mr. Sanader had, absolutely no matter what this topic is here, but it is about this we will continue to talk further and you know that it is a common interest and effort to just happen what we have this year, and that is an exceptional reduction in the number of fires that will be a sure topic of course next year. And I believe that, with common arrangements, we will come up with common rules and about possible amendments to the law to make it right. I will take this opportunity, among other things, to particularly appreciate that contribution that is not police business, is in my domain. After all, you could see what was the most important segment when a serious accident or disaster occurred. Not you because I don't need to tell you because you're in it, but it's fair to say it in this place how important it is for firemen, members of DVDs and all those involved in this at least to send this message. As far as human rights violations are concerned, it's something that's particularly disturbing to me, I have to say, and I want to react to that because you didn't specifically state a case, but I'm going to tell you that by coming to the Home Secretary's office, I'm sorry to remind you that I have to remind you that I have proposed to amend the Law on Police Powers in the part that you mentioned earlier in article 68, and it does not only refer to cell phone listing but also to other measures that are foreseen there. It was then that the law in which it was not allowed to change was intended to change exactly the same and control, to change the situation in which this could happen. So here I have something that I announced at the 1st month waiting for the amendment of the Penal Procedure Act, so I hope you don't think I wrote or agreed on this right now. Here it is, November 2013 and this is the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Police Powers. It's in the 1st month we're going to take advantage of that opportunity to change it, and eventually we're going to get to the next step that's been taken, which is that this Ministry of the Interior has several kinds of supervision. That's what I want to mention. Number one, there's a police department. So, surveillance of special trained officers who worry about it. Secondly, there is an internal control of the interior minister that can be addressed by any citizen and is obliged to receive an answer and this is a situation where we have other control. The third control, I'm not going to talk about the judicial possibility of, of course, suing the police or anything like that, the third is something that didn't exist before, and now there is, and that's the Board of Appeal, civil, civil, that you chose here in the Parliament, that is, the Human Rights Committee, where two members are proposed by NGOs and one of the police that only helps them in these affairs. Of course, by then it was clear that he would not be able to cover all of what and my proposal that he was, and that is that every police administration has such a Board of Objections, I am sure that eventually it will be realized. Because I just can't cover all the complaints that are happening. Then the issue of direct supervision of the Committee on Internal Policy and the National Security of the Ombudsman, not to mention all other options, can be monitored by any part of this job. As for numbers and lists as one of the police powers here, we can be very specific. Of course, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security would only compare the figures of the application of such measures very simply come to the point of why they apply at all. They apply for one reason, which is that we have a huge number, which means more than 60% of those, a two-thirds pardon is looking for a list just because we don't have registered phone connections. There's a problem. And that's what's the fact that, of course, prepaids are unregistered none of the countries that have such a possibility that you can buy it at the kiosk, of course, it's an advantage to all those who deal with criminal activity, and for these reasons we're forced not to do it, but to use Article 68 of the police and to list the phones to even get to the data that this phone belongs to. But in the future, just this change very quickly, so as soon as the change in the CAP passes, we have the following, which is that all citizens who have a registered phone connection will be protected and only a court order will be able to request a warrant for such a person. The second thing, what is also the proposal of the Ministry of the Interior that we've never been afraid of surveillance, we've always proposed it, these amendments we propose to finally solve a thing that hasn't existed for years, which is to introduce a Council of Civil Control at the Ministry of the Interior. Because so far, the Civil Watch Council is only overseeing the measures of secret collection of SOA data. Now let this be done right here Parliament, let the Committee of Human Rights choose people and then we will remove any suspicion or need for the Internal Policy Committee to come and monitor exactly what the police have done in a particular criminal investigation. Of course, by prescribing the procedure, I believe it will raise the extra level of surveillance that the police have at the moment. The cost of financial resources, of course, is not the subject of the Labour Report, i.e. the performance of police jobs for 2012 but, when asked, I will tell you that this is, of course, in the budget adopted by you parliamentary representatives, exactly how much it goes for public security, as much as it goes for the MUP, but because of the information that does not give rise to a lot of pay in the MUP varies between 200 and 250 million kuna, so are our expenditures in the wage. When I say in a lot of pay, then it's clear that it's all overtime and stuff. This difference between 50 million kunas, which is when you have, like, a 6-month period where there are three holidays at that point you have so many overtime hours because of course cops work 24 hours in their tours and then that kind of situation happens. But the important information is that the expenditures for the MEP for wages in 2012 and this year are also significantly lower even though we have all these border police employees met all the conditions than it was the salary mass of 2011, a year before. 154,000 kunas a year cost an average of one cop. In the last report, it was 164, so 10 thousand kunas less per year per head, so let's say one cop's expense, when all the costs related to the police are summed up. Schengen was mentioned only at the end of 2012 of course because it had not to be mentioned before because only at the end of 2012 started any moves and the situation why it was not there I will remind you of the 10 monitoring points set by the EU 4 were related to the N MUP and said Croatia will not enter the EU unless the backdrops are met. In 2012, the MIP 98 sublegal proposals adopted a complete border police force to the number of 6,336 as requested. What was also lag behind and no adopted migration policy was made in 2013-2015 and what no one believed would be done in just 4 months was resolved the issue of building the Neum-Zon Doli-Klek border crossings accordingly that is what is not to be seen. It's about the story of the Schengen and the execution of obligations in the Schengen and of course that in the time ahead will be in that report much more about what was done for the Schengen. About information security, I find it a little strange when exactly my initiative, and for the first time in the history of the Croatian MUP, was established by the Department of High-Technological Computer Crime by coming to the post of minister, did not exist before that. Therefore, these arguments should be used in a way that we at least inform ourselves. The number of crimes that I do not present here, but what we have, we have serious progress in that segment as well as in the Cold Cases Department that did not exist, so they are after very skeptical sentences that it will not do anything to solve and double murder in Osijek 10 years old, the question also solved three years ago by killing a security guard in a bank, so I think some things that were rather skeptically welcomed here, and I will mention how it was looked at the opening of St. John's Square. Mark that even with certain moves, you can at least express your satisfaction today and say it wasn't such a bad idea. What is information security and, of course, talk about European cybersecurity in the 2012 report when we were not a member, and forget that there is a special agency called the Information Security Institute which is also part of the security and intelligence system that is concerned about it, and that it is also an obligation for us to bring in a cybersecurity strategy, and of course you know it, so it was started even earlier and a national security strategy that must be adopted here in the Croatian Parliament. About the details, I think it would be better if I stopped, supported the prevention story, and I absolutely claim that this is a path that can significantly reduce security risks. I can proudly tell you today that today is the first day that the Republic of Croatia finally has a helicopter with all its permits, that it can fly day and night in all its conditions. Now, that's the country and that's the police she didn't have until today. She didn't have a helicopter that could fly by day, by night, in winter, here we have today. Today is the first time that's happened. We have 26.5% less murders today than we had a year before 186% more crime in the area of organised crime, 306% in the first 10 months more in corruption crimes, not to remind myself of those specific cases that have caused serious problems among the people of the Republic of Croatia since the bombings at the beginning of this year, situations that have seriously threatened to solve high-risk matches, to ensure the gatherings of same-sex communities. And the finale here at the end, I have to say the dead cops who just solved family violence lost their lives, and the two were seriously injured in those very variants, because what was once a perfectly normal thing, which is that nobody should call the police or anyone who thought to call the police. Today it's one of the things the police are dealing with. Here I hope I didn't tire you too much. I thank you for your attention and I believe that if this report is really looked at and read, and I am sure you will want to regularly monitor transparency on our website every month is a statistical report. It shows all the trends in how things are going and we treat them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57302	Thank you very much, Minister. You have another replica. Davor Bozinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57303	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Parliamentarians are at least responsible when a report or some point comes on the agenda. So you said it was declassified on several occasions in several topics to talk about something from 2012, but we live here in the second half of 2013 is actually approaching the end of 2013 and we can't pretend today that we don't live in real time. This also applies to your findings on the Schengen, but I am well aware from your answer that there will be no problem with this two-year period and the entry after two years of membership which is the government's goal, you mentioned another in some other contexts. So it took you six months, the Parliament's services took four months or five months to put this on the agenda. I don't think there's any reason for the report not to be in the 1st, 2nd month and it's about the year that's just passed. As for this financial part, you see there's one trend when it comes to all security structures. I come from one another though, I was in another, but it was very important there to always point out spending. And it's not bad, it's not something used here as a criticism, but as a single incentive especially when we consider the possibility of modernization that every service needs, so who should and the police.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57304	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of Minister Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57305	Dear Mr. Representative, I have to look back once more, I can't talk about things by submitting the 2012 report that happened behind that, and that was the only one of my readings was not that it was declassified. Secondly, in March 2013, the Ministry of Interior completed its statistics which I say was publicly published, delivered in time to the Committee on Internal Policy, and I submitted a report before the summer. But it's not a problem, it might be much more important to talk about that only the time when the report is submitted is the end of the year, etc. Besides, the attorney general comes back later, these things happened regularly, only now there's one important difference, which is that at least we have a report and at least you have a minister who submits that report to you. I will repeat since 2001 there has been this obligation, the only one who has submitted the report here for the second time is that it is me who comes here and I think it is important that it be on the agenda of this Parliament. As far as the cost is concerned I can agree with you, it's a positive thing, but we have another problem, which is that it's bad and why I mentioned this helicopter, bad because we can't equip the police if we're spending 80% of the money on pay, we don't have money for preventive programs, and there's a problem. These are the conditions in which it is important to reduce this cost, not at the expense of people having less wages than to be better organised so that we have more space left to buy the equipment of quality that we need. And that's because of the Schengen, I have to say, of course we weren't even able to start building when the funds weren't there. We can start using them from 1.7. The complete plan has been approved. And what I'm finally going to say please quote me precisely. The national goal I believe is yours, mine and everyone is to prepare for 1.7.2015. And I didn't tell you at any point that we would then enter the Schengen because that's not what we're making the decision about. On this through a very difficult evaluation process, Member States are making a decision in a way that I must remind that Bulgaria and Romania have not yet entered the Schengen, therefore our goal is to be prepared because then we can only apply and then I hope beyond that as soon as possible to enter the Schengen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57306	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, tonight we will conclude the debate. And tomorrow, at 9.30, we will begin first with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Copyright and Related Rights Act, and we will continue with the Final Proposal of the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security and at 12:00 we will vote. Thank you very much. Good night. Session adjourned in 20.16 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-14-0.u57307	Internal Affairs Minister's 2012 report on police affairs. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security as a home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report by the Minister of Interior in the performance of police affairs in 2012 is accepted". By raising our hands, I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed conclusion has been accepted by the majority of 90 votes in favour and 21 votes against.
