ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32493	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! We're continuing at 7th session. We will discuss - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on election of representatives from the Republic of Croatia to the European Parliament, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 283. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and you received reports at the session. Introductory on behalf of the Proposer, Minister of Management Arsen Bauk. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32494	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the Croatian Parliament to adopt amendments and amendments to the Law on election of representatives from the Republic of Croatia to the European Parliament. Namely, this law was passed in July 2010. The concept of the law was that ad hoc elections for representatives from the Republic of Croatia were held after Croatia's accession to the European Union after the Treaty of Accession was signed where we are therefore required in case the date of accession was more than six months before the regular elections for the European Parliament held by the ad hoc elections. In that sense, we have therefore amended these provisions defining the mandate of observers, which define their obligations when we enter the European Union and so we have defined everything in a way that these elections can also be called before the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Secondly, certain technical things in the law, since this is about the Electoral Law, we have specified, fixed or seen that something else needs to be changed. And third, we didn't touch election rules alone. Therefore, Croatia remains an electoral unit and for the first time in the elections, so citizens will have the opportunity except for the party to vote for one of the candidates on the list of the party and thus get the opportunity to have them, other than party structures, party guides, so to determine the composition, therefore Croatian composition in the European Parliament. What should also be pointed out will be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or will accept some of the amendments if it comes from representatives or clubs that will be prescribed that in the event of simultaneous European and local elections, they will be held in regular polling stations. Therefore, electoral bodies, election committees and election committees conducting local elections. In view of the fact that there has been a lot of debate in the public on the date of the election, wanting to open the possibility for the President of the Republic, it is therefore also a decision to call the elections on the day or day when the local elections are held. So we're going to add that to the bill so that that possibility can be left. As far as some of the other provisions of this Law are concerned, there are two other things that need to be highlighted. So, one is that we have defined the party composition of the electoral committees to match the composition of the Croatian Parliament as well as parliamentary elections and that, in agreement with the State Election Commission and the Alliance of the Blind, due to technical inability, we have delayed the application of the Braille letter provision, so on the ballots in Braille's letter. Everything else, so I believe there will still be opportunities in this debate to touch, so I wouldn't be more of an introduction than this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32495	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the club of independent representatives Damir Kajin and Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32496	Dear Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister in Croatia is all politics, and then so as not to be the date of these European elections. What is surely commendable when we talk about the Croatian electoral model, that if anything else 4 years in advance we know when local elections will be held. So the basis of the law is that they're being held for the third week of the fifth month and that's absolutely okay. It would be better if they could be held in 11, 12, 1 or 2 months so that new local authorities can change budgets and lead a new local policy with a new budgetary policy. Now, if we have the election in 19.5 and the second round in 15 days, then the deadline for the appeal, so somewhere in the re-election you objectively before 1.7 you can hardly establish new representative bodies, and then that means that you can't redefine the new budgetary policy eight or nine months ago of the current year. That means your former local government de facto eats half a year's term. Secondly, in parliamentary elections, things are a little different. If the election at 11 months is somehow up, and they were the last if I'm not mistaken 3 mandates, the exception is January 3rd, but that's okay. Then you begin de facto from the beginning, the mandate begins with a new budgetary policy. In the presidential elections, too, everything is fine, the elections are in the 11th, 12th month, the second round may be somewhere in the 1st month, but the president of the state is still undetermining this budgetary policy, so it is less objectively important when these elections are to be held. It is important that elections for the president be direct elections, that 4 million citizens vote for the president and everything else is something I think would not support. And now we are somehow coming to this election for the European Parliament. This European Parliament may not be right in some way is like the second home of the Croatian Parliament, although I will admit it to me, it is wrong that we have abolished that other County House. This MP was supposed to count a few fewer people, the county's same relatively small number of people with certain powers, and that would be better than having only one Croatian Parliament home. But let's let it go now. Elections for the European Parliament i.e. the date of the election itself. That's what the controversy of the last one was about in public I dare say for 15 days. We've got two schools to see. It will clearly judge the date of the President of the Republic, in one word it will rule politics. The first means school starts with the election costing, which is the truth. Some mention 60 million kunas, others mention about 84 million kunas. That is the reason, so they are called on to be held on the same day as the local elections are held. What countries held at the same time national and European elections? It was Ireland in '79, '99, 2004. So the European Parliament's elections were combined with the local elections, and in 1989 it joined Ireland's European elections with national elections. Then, there is Spain, meaning European and regional elections or local elections joined together in '87. and in 1999, Lithuania joined the European Parliament elections with the 2004 presidential elections. So, even in Europe, these elections don't come together. But Croatia's people would say it was decanted. Right, democracy costs money. If these elections were to be joined, greater turnout would be ensured, and these are strong arguments that the elections should be held on 19.05.2013 or in 15 days, the question is whether this is possible in 2.06.2013. So, on the day that these local elections should be held. Now, we have this other school that says something different. It comes from the fact that European elections must be held separately for different levels. If Croatia had money, it would be absolutely fine because these are our first European elections, perhaps in such a way we should set them up. I will quote this occasion by Mr. Jasmin Klaric, journalist of the New List, one of those who certainly know Croatia's and Slovenia's relationship, for example, as Mr. Tomašević probably knows best the relations between Croatia and Italy and he literally in one text seems to me Saturday's New List says: "How long until Croatia enters the EU, and this event is just a little more than 4 months away from us should choose his 12 euro advocate's choice in April as the month in which the elections will take place seemed quite logical. June means adventure because after the elections, there are appeal deadlines that must pass in order for the results to become official, and in case there is an extra vote in the box or something similar must happen again. Well, then they have their own deadlines. The month of local elections will be May, the municipal, urban and county parliaments and the leaders of those units of local self-government will be elected in May. The second round of election for leaders is where June 2nd will be. So all of May will mark local political wars around the development of Slavonia, Istria, Dubrovnik, Kastva, etc. It would be completely pointless to underpriced in this turret to add to the story of the elections for Brussels and Strasbourg because the European Parliament is sitting in those two cities. Political cohesion, European political factions, the Commission's and parliament's relations, that would be taking the job away just so there's doing these boring, "non-important" European elections. And I will continue to stop, so "Unless you want to fall into the trap of the above-mentioned populist bales and June teahouse April is the only logical choice. Unfortunately, the ruling coalition appears to have been afraid of media hysteria about the cost of the election and will still bring them together with the local one, which, except in the campaign, will cause total chaos and at the very tables at the polling stations. Namely, the voter who owns the table, let's say the third May Sunday before him, will have an incredible pile of paper, for example in Rijeka will vote for the City Assembly, mayors, a list for the County Assembly, mayors and for the European Parliament, and there should be a separate vote for the list and for the candidate on it. A total of 6 roundings for three different levels of government, three for three if the elections were 2. June.", etc., etc. And now what do we do? To bow down in some way, I don't know that decision, let's go "struke" i.e. What Mr. Klaric mentions or adhere to the cost logic. As far as I'm concerned, I don't care. Normally, let President Josipovic decide according to his own decisions. I agree that in some way this debate would have to help the president to set a deadline for elections for the European Parliament, but whatever the truth decides will always be there halfway, there will be those who will say better to save those 60 million kunas, but there will also be those who will always say or bow to the logic that democracy is costing in Croatia as well. As much as ten million euros is certainly big money, such as the equivalent of two or three schools, two or three school halls. In Istria they'd say it's one or two golf courses, no, but let's let it go now. In one word, let the president decide, and we as a Parliament must simply give him room to decide one way or another. For me personally absolutely anyway, but the president should clearly decide on behalf of Croatia and on behalf of, as I would say, the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The absolute law as such is not controversial, the only thing that causes certain dilemmas is these deadlines when the basis of the law can simply be held. Not to quote certain provisions, they're logical and we don't have any objections to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32497	Thank you very much. It's the SDSS Club and fellow Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32498	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The amendments proposed by the Ministry of Management to the Parliament on the Law on Elections for the European Parliament are technical in nature and are necessary in order for the elections to be held in the time that is actually foreseen today, and in today's circumstances as set out. And in this sense, we have nothing significant to say, or to amend the bill, we have nothing significant to say. But this is actually an opportunity for 2, 3 words to be said, not only when elections should be held, but at the same time, it seems even more important to me, and why are these elections actually held? Because in our public, this issue, why these elections are being held, is clearly and gradually lost. The whole thing comes down more or less to who goes there, what's the pay there, and how much is the election going to cost you? These are relevant questions, but if the purpose of these choices is limited to that, then these issues are no longer relevant. So let me say a few words about what it seems to me to be important if there's room or if there's an interest in getting to any ears when our public is on Wednesday. First, after a period of great mostly emotional and mostly identically ideological euphoria towards Europe and European membership, we have actually come into a situation where we need to look at Europe, understand how the matter of the system of decision, that Europe should be seen as a place within which we as a small country and our representatives need to find the best way, the best mechanisms and the best policies within which this space, this alliance of states can be used for the benefit of our citizens and for the benefit of our country. And that's actually the basic meaning or the whole purpose. And we won't be able to do that unless we're well informed about what's going on there. One way we can be well informed is, of course, the participation of our parliamentarians, i.e. participation in the European Parliament. The European Parliament may be more than the average National Parliament is indeed the place within which the debate is being discussed, within which different types of information, different types of views, different types of efforts and approaches to things are being discussed. And of course within it it is possible to create different types of alliances, within it it is possible to create different types of interesting or positional positions and groups. As the country has no doubt we are not entering some imaginary Europe, we are entering a very real Europe. A Europe of real countries, a Europe of real interest and in this sense there is no doubt that the European Parliament is the place in which we must look for the best way to know how individual countries, individual policies are positioned in relation to the common European policy. Secondly, Europe is the place where decisions are made that concern us. The European Parliament, the European Commission, the European Council are the places within which decisions are taken regarding us. Many people say or in public they can even hear about two prominent persons that the European Parliament is one insignificant place within which decisions are not actually made which would be relevant to anyone and then would also not be relevant to the Republic of Croatia. It is possible to see things that way but the European Council is the place within which decisions are made but within which the Croatian role in decision-making can be measured by prominence, at least for the time being, at least in the coming years. For this reason, then, we will say that our prime minister has nothing to look for on the European Council. We won't, of course we won't, why? Well, because it's a matter of building, influence and building power, because it's a matter of building someone to hear you, because it's a matter of building a politician who will be able to say in that place and in those circumstances what others will be able to hear. The fact that we Croatia is that in itself it is not enough, that we are a new member, that in itself is not enough. But if we ourselves are going to evaluate this institution, the European Parliament or the European Council, if we're going to approach Europe about the way we've already spent it before we've tried it, that we already ate it before we tried it, then of course and it's got this kind of mood, it's got this kind of feeling in our public, then we're actually showing up as people who give up their jobs, who've cost them a lot in these twenty years. And now that we're talking about bone? It is true that elections cost, each and every election for the European Parliament, and it is true that the question should be asked which is better, whether it is saved or deployed by trying to strengthen awareness of European relevance or awareness of European parliamentary elections. This will certainly be decided not only by principled attitudes, but by the same time by economic and political circumstances. We both need to consider each other. But one thing should not be forgotten. How much has cost us the fact that we have not withdrawn more than 24.25% in the use of EU pre-accession and structural funds. What's that 60 or 40 or 20? I don't know how many millions are mentioned in terms of billions of not kuna, but the euros that we could withdraw, and we didn't withdraw. Why? Well, because we've been dealing with petty policies, because both in this House and in the public, we've been petty about political issues and we haven't dealt with big and strategic issues, but we're dealing with petty ones who meet the hungry needs of our hungry people. And we've been hiding these questions from the former government, and every new government is hiding because it's uncomfortable, because it turns out that we weren't prepared for Europe, or that we weren't right about it, that we were drilling into our European membership, but not in the capacity to take from that Europe and take advantage of what we should be there for. That's a big question for me, and that's a real question for me. And now that we're talking about the price. Not only how much it cost us but how much it will cost us in the future if we join European institutions, European institutions' elections, European institutions' participation in the work of European institutions, as a kind of curiosity, as a kind of opportunity for curative forms of statement or curiosity forms of behaviour. It is a complex, complex, complicated and very demanding and difficult space within which we need to act politically and in this sense, it seems to me that it is necessary that, within our political clubs, we actually have a serious debate about what we can do and how we can act that the price of our accession to the Union of 1.7 is not as high as our membership is, therefore, not as expensive as it has been so far, and it has been expensive. For this reason, it really doesn't matter how we approach what is called parliamentary elections or elections for the European Parliament, it really doesn't matter which people at the lowest levels and at the highest levels will go to European institutions. And, of course, it doesn't matter what the relationship between them and our national parliament will be, and it doesn't matter what the relationship between them and our state government bodies and the larger countries is like, that the moment people go there, if they don't have adequate communication with them, they can simply become part of the alienated form of national representatives who have no real connection and real communication with their national representative bodies and with their national institutions. And so large and powerful states such as Germany, such as France, have full awareness of it and try to correct it. For us as a small country, it's of special importance. Another sending people to the central administration of the alliances of the states to which we belong and if we weren't prepared for it would be a big price, and we've paid a huge price so far anyway. For this reason, it seems to me that it is of particular importance to the extent possible in the process of systematically continuing and rather radical devasting of parliamentaryism in Croatia. Yesterday we had a high delegation from the Dutch Parliament, the president of the Senate. To my question of what the Dutch Parliament's reputation is in the Dutch public, our ambassador said, very high. Is it because they are doing their job or because they are guarding their democratic institutions? Probably both. And we are one of the democratic institutions for which we are not even given the opportunity by the will of our people in a referendum, which is the European Parliament we want to devastate in advance, we want to degrade in advance, as we are disdaining this Parliament here. All right, if this seems more or less here at each session, especially from individual benches and individual lines in which Parliament and parliamentary debates are constantly turning into Birthian debates and if that Birtian atmosphere wants to turn into the right and only picture of the national parliament, then okay. But if there is no need for anyone to say that it is time to stop, that the birtian documents in national parliaments are not the solution to national problems, that the Birtian argument is not an argument that can be held in any serious parliament and the way that ours is, then of course, it will take time. And if such a Birthian type of speech will prevail over the reports of this House as it prevails and if the replica system will choke any serious form of debate and debate on the topics we have, then, of course, for each of us, the question will be asked, so why should I even come to this Parliament and listen to those who can listen in the first order and quality discussion and more authentic type of debate on the problems of society than I should listen to here. And now allow me colleagues and colleagues, dear vice president, Mr. Minister, to say a few words about time. There are arguments and for, there are arguments and against. The voters will be burdened with a large number of ballots. Maybe the campaign will be confusing, but that's less important. What matters is that voters are allowed to have the right choice. If they are burdened with 5 or 6 or 7 ballots, they will undoubtedly create a large part of the average voter, the elderly in particular, a burden for the election process itself. But we need to discuss this, there's going to be a chance to talk about it with the president, but what's most important is what we do, and that's why I talked about it the way I talked about it, to try to keep the minimum rationality in that debate, when we're looking at the thing for or against. There's so much on my side of my colleague and colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32499	Replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32500	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Pupovac, sometimes replicas are good that we understand each other a little bit better sometimes we understand less what we wanted to say in our political exhibitions. You said one key sentence, that in Croatia the impression was that we had spent on Croatia's EU accession issues before we became a full member. And maybe you're right. Because indeed some of the major problems in the country are especially these economic ones, financially bringing some of the entire Croatian people into apathy because of some fears and because of the fact that EU membership in recent months or months is only about how much the salaries of European representatives will be, which will be done by European representatives from the Republic of Croatia in parliament, and all of this is throwing one wrong picture at a big and difficult job for all governments that have so far had to meet perhaps one of the most difficult conditions for the new EU member. I think that Croatia is there to be an indicator for our neighbours as much as this hard work, first of all, of Parliament and also of the Government, but also of the president himself, it is difficult for us to get the end of these negotiations. The problem with Slovenia has proved to be very difficult to throw the wrong picture on our entire painful journey. The theme of this law is simply how easily we can overcome these can be said in short European elections, and I believe on behalf of my club and on my own behalf as an advocate that in these first elections for the European Parliament we should not be embarrassed. The mandate will take a short year, and we need to do everything to make it as cheap as possible in view of the situation in the country, and also that the voter's response to these elections will be consistent with the hard work we've done, and I think it would be best in the first round of elections for the local elections on 19th of May, because then we really have a real hard time, but this is the law that we need to talk about today and make efforts to make it easier, but we simply have to do everything to avoid being embarrassed because of the hard work we've done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32501	Thank you. Dujomir Marasovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32502	Honored Madam President, colleague Pupovac. You said a few things that I don't really like. We want to devastate the EU Parliament. We are some force to devastate the EU parliament, but this Birthian argument and so on. It's like the Croatian people are stupid, and all of Croatia's citizens are stupid, so here we are. The Croatian people have one historical memory as... Christianity and expect even equal treatment in the European house. We weren't treated equally, but we passed the Calvary in these access negotiations. And there's one kind of unfulfilled expectation. Secondly, Europe has given up its principles on which it is based. Some relations within the countries and between countries will not affect the accession of some Member States. And now we know that Slovenia has now blackmailed us with the payment of some deutsch marks and it has become European, there Europe has fallen. We should clearly say that Europe has succumbed, that it has turned those German marks into a question of Croatia's EU accession which it should not have, that it has allowed Slovenia to do so. And the European principle of non-influence has fallen in the accession of states. Third, Europe does not build its identity, Europe has no identity and therefore is increasingly Eurosceptics and one lost boomerang generation in Europe. And why would Croats be separated from other Europe if it had no identity or tried to build it, and we know that it does not recognise that Christianity is fundamentally a Christian which is because there is nothing else in Europe but Christianity. There is nothing else, but Christianity is the foundation of Europe. And when Europe was ashamed to admit it, then there is no future in terms of identity. And don't be surprised at some skeptics in both Croatia and England and Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32503	Thank you very much. The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32504	Dear counterpart Marasovic says Europe has no identity. Europe does not have or can have identities the way most of its members of the national states do. Europe has no national identity. Europe has no religious identity. Europe has the identity of constitutional, political and economic values. Constitutional, political and social symbols what money is, what the flag is, what anthem is, what the rules under which it behaves and what the values that are advocated in Europe are. Europe is not unique in this respect. That's the way the United States is, that's the way Canada is, that's the way other countries are. If we're going to measure Europe with our own identity, ethnically, nationalally, then of course we don't understand Europe. If we're going to measure Europe in a way from our parochial perspective, then I certainly don't understand Europe. Europe is much more than that. And because he takes us more into himself. If you are talking about Christianity, Europe is a Christian majority when it comes to religiousness. But there are many, not one, that have divided Europe for centuries and fought much worse in some cases than we have been through our war. Therefore, it is not our place to impose identity on Europe from our own perspective, but rather to think a little bit better about the European identity that we are accessing, and that is not the identity of a member. This is the identity of common values and common beliefs and common rules which are most important.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32505	Davor Ivo Stier, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32506	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here is my colleague Pupovac, you have rightly pointed out the need for our Croatian institutions to connect well and cooperate with our representatives in European institutions, as well as in future with our representatives in the European Parliament. However, today seems to me that we missed the opportunity to prove it at today’s session. Because it would be useful if all of our observers who have been sent to the European Parliament were here with us. But most observers in the European Parliament today and cannot be here because they had to be at the debate in the European Parliament, in the Committee on Foreign Policy, where the resolution on Croatia is currently being discussed. And we could also show today by an example of how to agree and better coordinate this debate so that our observers in the European Parliament who are also representatives of the Croatian Parliament would be here today and debate on the basis of the experiences they have gained in these few months or a year on this Law on Elections in the European Parliament. We missed that, and here's stressing the importance that you pointed out about that connection yourself, and it seems to me that here's the first test and the opportunity we had to show it, unfortunately, we didn't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32507	Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32508	Well, as I believe you assume, colleague Stier would be the happiest if all observers and observers of the Croatian Parliament were here today. But most of them except colleagues Plenkovic and me and colleagues Vuljanić were there yesterday, and some of us at least as I leave this afternoon because tomorrow is a session of the European Parliament's Budget Committee which seems equally important to us, given the still open issues of the budget for the EU's multiannual period. But what I was going to say. I wanted to say that this is not just a question for observers in the European Parliament. It is simply a question for us, the question of how we treat this opportunity, how our clubs treat this opportunity, how our public refers to this opportunity, and how our key state institutions treat this opportunity. The observers will not give the necessary seriousness if we here in this House, in the public and state institutions, do not give it the necessary seriousness. If we're going to demean that fact, if we're going to observe that fact through tiny parameters like we've been looking at a whole series of other things, then it's going to remain a problem for us. That was the point of what I was about to say. I believe, of course, that colleagues and colleagues, colleagues of Picula, colleagues of Rados, colleagues of Anticevic could certainly enrich this debate but it concerns us, it concerns our public, it concerns our relationship with the electoral body. Whether the issue of local elections and parliamentary elections will be seen by voters as a question of contaminating the elections for local democracies with some distant and pointless issues. It's up to us to clear this up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32509	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32510	Thank you very much, dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. It is before us today that the proposal to amend the Law on Amendments of Members of the European Parliament, to use new terminology in relation to the law adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 2010. Direct elections for the European Parliament are a novelty in the calendar of elections for the Republic of Croatia. And it is therefore important that every step, whether it is about amending the law, about political debate, about information activities, about the dialogue that we are conducting, we conduct it with caution and we lead it in an argument. I'm going to say something about the timing of these changes and the methodology itself that took place from Wednesday to today. First, the Croatian public should know that since the date of the signing of the accession treaty, since 9 December 2011, there has been a clear fact that the first ad hoc elections for the European Parliament must be held before Croatia's planned membership in the EU. So before 1 July 2013. We are here today on 19 February 2013, so since the signing, almost 13 months have passed. The government adopted the amendment to this law on Thursday, discussing on Friday how much only two committees were known to me, say the European Integration Committee did not discuss this, the Foreign Affairs Committee did not discuss this. There was no public debate on these changes at all. I don't think it's a good method. There is no reason for us to be such an important topic for strengthening Croatian democracy and for preparing Croatia for EU membership to work on me a little quickly, and on the other hand late. We could have had this debate a year ago without any dilemma. And then we could use all this time that now seems to be a little knap for what other countries are doing. Other countries use the EU communication and information policy to prepare the public for what European elections are essentially. To explain what the powers of the European Parliament are, to explain the technology of choice. This is for Croatian voters a whole new moment and I have to look back at the electoral system that we have never really had the chance to implement. According to the legal framework that exists in the EU, it is necessary to go to the European elections at national level primarily in a proportionate system, with a consensus that it is a minimum of 5%. So in the election, the threshold is 5%. However, many countries in this context also have preferential voting practices. And that vote is based on what's being said here in public about open lists, which is essentially half-opened lists. There's something to say about that, too. In fact, in 9 Member States in Germany, Spain, France, Greece, Portugal, the United Kingdom, Estonia, Poland and Hungary, voters cannot change the order of candidates on the lists. In 14 Member States there is a system that is taken over by Croatia, which is Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Sweden, Lithuania, Latvia, Slovakia, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Cyprus. There are specificities in certain countries, e.g. Luxembourg has a unique system where voters circle exactly the number of candidates Luxembourg has. It's nowhere but Luxembourg. In some countries voters can move or add candidates to the lists. Like that. for Sweden. So there are different models of democratic practice in the voting system. And that is why I believe that the Ministry of Administration, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the State Election Commission, political parties and all actors in the next few months, and unfortunately weeks, must first and foremost make an objective and informative campaign on voting technology. It's a prerequisite for the successful organisation of these choices. I have just looked at the home websites and the Ministry of Administration and Foreign Affairs and the DIP about elections for the European Parliament can only find a response to an article in the newspaper on the DIP page. I don't think that's good. In addition, the European Parliament's Office will soon be open in Croatia, which will likely then launch the information initiative on election technology. What is the main feature of European elections? The main feature is their weather predictability. They are held every five years, usually in June of the month. The situation that Croatia has an obligation to legally organise ad hoc elections for most of us who knew this was to happen was in some way relieved by the fact that they could coincide with holding local elections on 19 May when the first round is scheduled. At a cabinet meeting, the Prime Minister asked the opposition a question. We are very clear today, holding the May 19th elections at the same time as the first round of local elections and showing our European partners that we care about the turnout and democratic legitimacy of the first 12 directly elected representatives in the European Parliament. Let us not underestimate Croatian voters with comments that the campaign will be confusing, that one day we will discuss local topics and the other day about relations and different European policies. I think campaign technology can be organised in a way that the right space and arguments can get both levels of debate. When we see that May 19th is true for 3 months, it is not a big period, but it is a much more reasonable period than certain speculations that last week were in the media space about dates that even talked about April 14 or 21. So I think it would really be unserious if, in the current law, a 60-day deadline within which the President of the Republic sets elections for the European Parliament as a minimum, now becomes some kind of deadline where we will practically carry out all the procedural actions that are crucial for organising the elections. I think that we should remove any possibility of manipulation or guessing of a particular political option according to an assessment that I do not see to harm anyone on the Croatian political scene. We also care about rationality, about costs. These elections are called ad hoc because they will only be like this once and only Croatian. Already next in 2014, there will be a pan of the European elections, there will be elections involving European political parties with clear European topics, with prominent candidates for the president of the Commission, with formulated policies and with a new opportunity to demonstrate Croatian voters. I therefore appeal to the President of the Republic, he is also a professor of law and this procedural right, and I believe that he will make sure that such important elections for Croatia are organised in the most appropriate way, and that, in accordance with the principle of justice, which he has now put back in the first plan, he will focus on his 3 years of mandate, make sure that we do not have extra costs, that we appreciate Croatian citizens and that we organise elections at a point which, by my deep conviction and the trust of the HDZ, is most appropriate. We also leave enough time by holding the May 19th elections to resolve all possible complaints, objections both in the DIP's jurisdiction and possibly in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, leaving several days in the end, perhaps weeks of time to those chosen in an appropriate way to prepare for a new duty. Because she's a lot different than she might be right now. When it comes to turnout in elections with an extremely important argument, it is important that the Croatian public knows that direct elections have been held since 1979, then the average turnout was 62%, 84%. 59%, 89%. 58%, 94%. 56%, 99%. 49%, 2004. 45%, and 2009. 43%. The decline trend is very clear and it is therefore important that Croatia does not happen to Slovakia, which recently had about 20% of the European Parliament elections. The legitimacy of such representatives is not adequately comparable to those countries where turnout is significantly higher. We also make sure that in 4 EU countries voters not only have the right to vote, but also have an obligation to vote. The vote is mandatory in Belgium, Luxembourg, Cyprus and Greece and, of course, there is much greater turnout than in countries where such an obligation does not exist. In order not to think that there is one coincidence in Croatia alone, I will look back on the recent past. In Germany, 7 of the 16 Lander countries held the same elections for the European Parliament and the elections. In Italy, at the level of the provinces, regional parliaments were elected in Belgium on the same day, in Latvia, Latvia, Malta, Ireland, parts of the United Kingdom were when local elections were held. In Lithuania, they even overlapped with the presidential campaign. There are therefore countless examples that speak of the simultaneous organisation of elections not as an obstacle but as a matter of political assessment and technology of the organisation of elections. When it comes to legal amendments, they are in a way used to clean up the 2010 text and adapt it to the new situation, which is primarily the provision of the Accession Treaty which is the main reason why these elections are held before Croatia joins. I would like to say that it is good that the ministry is in one of the articles, and this seems to me in Article 13 of which Article 26 has been amended to specify the system of preferential voting and has also expanded the possibility of avoiding invalid ballots. Since these are choices where technology itself is brand new, it is important to allow voters as little chance of error as possible because it is of interest to all of us to have as few invalid ballots as possible. As far as the deadlines are concerned, I've already said, I think this 30-day deadline is understandable in this teat, but we could have handled it much earlier and much better. Also, the status of current observers, i.e. Those provisions of the law which were provided for in the variant of the first elections being organised after our membership are cleared. And at the very end of the line, there's a political consensus that doesn't matter. The process of ratification of the accession treaty is still ongoing and several countries are planning their internal procedures even for May, so we believe that it is good that these elections are enough after the last report of the European Commission, that at that moment most Member States are laying down their instruments on ratification, depositary, and this is the Italian Government and we hope that this open question of ratification of accession contracts in neighbouring Slovenia will be resolved. In this way, with a clean situation, they would organise the May 19th elections with plenty of time to prepare the company and everything that will follow until July 1st when Croatia will become a member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32511	Thank you very much. The replica has Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32512	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Kola Plenkovic mentioned the importance of informing about these elections for the European Parliament does not seem enough to me. In fact, two aspects of information that the government has had to do so far, has not done, which is not working now either, I don't know why, in fact, it's one thing for a citizen to be informed about the role of what these people and who they're going to represent there, what they're going to do and from another aspect of the information is how they're going to choose. Every day, ten people at least intellectuals mostly people who are politically proportionately written ask me what it is now and what way we're going to vote. We could've known that for a good year. We don't know, we don't know now, and then there's no other part of this aspect of the desired high turnout than to attach to local elections that guarantee that this turnout will be forty, fifty percent. About the company organisation, too, Col. Plenkovic spoke and rebelled against an idea that is being located that the company would be confusing. If citizens are informed, the company should not be confusing. I guess we can organize a company so it doesn't get confusing. What the government has been informing us about for the last few days and weeks. It informs us exactly that we will not be able to manage it, but it does not explain what it is, and it informs us about what the salaries of the representatives in the European Parliament are, which encourages a smaller exit. I don't know why the government is doing it or what she's interested in. I hope her interest isn't in delegating those elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32513	Replication response, Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32514	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Vuljanic, I may not have pointed out enough how sorry I am that after January 22nd, when most of the Croatian people gave full democratic legitimacy in the referendum on EU membership to this historic, state-run process, not only integration for Croatia, that the current government, in my opinion, as well as by looking at the budget lines of the competent ministry and following the activities in some way, has fallen into the implementation of the communication strategy, the information company. I think it is one process that is not only important from the end of the referendum, so of these European elections, it is the continuing task of all countries, it is the continuing task of the EU institutions and it cannot be stopped and cannot be stopped with this process. I think it is good that the government plans certain funds to mark the moment of membership itself, so on July 1st, and it is quite fine and quite appropriate, of course, within the framework of the financial opportunities in which Croatia is located. It is also good to continue to work on information on the use of European funds, but I repeat, the European Union is not the only redistribution of budgetary resources. The EU is a continental political project, it is a community of rights, it is full of common policies with exclusive or shared competences that Croatian citizens need to know as much as possible. And that is why it is important for the government to now make one effort that may be in the time behind us but there is enough time for us to have an objective introduction to election technology and European Parliament's tasks before the start of the formal company.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32515	Thank you. Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32516	Dear counterpart Plenkovic, I expected from both you and the minister about this election to really pass this law by emergency procedure and in haste what was enough time to bring it before not only for the sake of the company but first of all to meet citizens with the EU but also with the work of no more European or observer about the European Parliament but now real representatives after these elections. We just need to tell the citizens the real truth. Our representatives and those elected in these elections are likely to go as Croatian representatives to the European Parliament but whether or not the Croatian MPs will actually be there do not believe, because it is already visible that observers are, above all, representing the interests of political, not the interests of Croatia but political groups in the European Parliament itself. This is how HDZ deputies will likely leave with European cracks, Social Democrats with Liberals and Social Democrats together because they are now liberals and practically in this European Parliament you will be in conflict as Croatian representatives in the European Parliament because you will represent two different political options in the Parliament itself. And as for the cost reduction itself, there is no problem in keeping these elections with the local ones because it will be a far greater response to the EU elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32517	The reply to the replica Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32518	Thank you. My colleague Vinkovic, I think your assessment is quite casual when you talk about not only Croatian MPs but MPs from any country when they are elected directly forget the national interest. When you get there here, a colleague of Vuljanić, a colleague of Pupovac and I are the only three today of these 12 who have had the opportunity to have some sort of internship in the past nine months, can very well recognize how representatives of different political options are synchronizingly representing the interests of their country. Here's a simple example. Yesterday, there was a report on Croatia on the Committee on Foreign Policy, which is why most of our colleagues are there, the report by Czech Representative Rouchek. 62 amendments were submitted to it, some were grouped into the so-called “. ” compromise amendments. If you take this document carefully, I have it here, so I will hand it to you, for example, the content and the identical formulations of amendments that have been given to our report on Croatia by Slovenian colleagues, regardless of whether they are in the Social Democratic Group, whether they are in the popular party or whether they are liberals. The sentences were identical. Therefore, your thesis that EU lawmakers will forget the Croatian national interest does not stand. They will protect him, protect him in line with the broader frameworks of political platforms and the world-renowned political groups in which they belong. The EU parliament is a body of transnational democracy with a total of over 200 political parties from 27 countries. And in such an atmosphere which, of course, is multilingual with Croatian 24 languages, the only method that succeeds is the method of dialogue and compromise and through which the national interest is realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32519	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have just expired time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. And it's SDP's turn, colleague Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32520	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates. The SDP club will support the amendment and addition of the Law on elections of MPs from the Republic of Croatia to the EU parliament. This is primarily about technical changes. The law changes fundamentally to allow the President of the Republic of Croatia to do it in good time, hold consultations with all actors, call for elections themselves, and be held before Croatia enters the EU and ultimately bring what is written in the law into line with what is written in our accession contract, given that this is about different things. In technical sense, this law brings of course deadlines from the call, weeks for running and handing over lists, hours basically for publishing the lists and leaves us enough time for the campaign to be done and to make elections in time. He also brings us a new model of voting the preferential list, the preferential vote that will almost certainly raise democratic culture in the Republic of Croatia. It's a novelty from which the Republic of Croatia will be able to gain only well. We also believe that the law does not come too late, since we are in one period of the end of ratification process, in which we expect the end and the positive completion of the story about the Ljubljanska banka and a good monitoring report for the Republic of Croatia, which opens up the space of time for consultations, call, campaign and maintenance during which it includes both April and May and June this year. We will not bid on dates because in the last few days there have been bids on dates, bids on money, politicisation with turnout. The date will be agreed by political actors and the president of the Republic of Croatia in consultation with them will call for these elections. We can also make a clean connection, the political parties in Croatia are almost certain that they will make the job responsible. We in the Assembly can theoretically discuss dates and, within this theoretical debate, we can say if we were to hold elections for the EU alone, and it is almost certain that we would have cleaner messages, clearer messages, cleaner campaigns, less turnout, probably more expensive elections in general. Although the price of elections for the EU alone is ridiculously auctioned for reasons that enable them to and existing means that the infrastructure for elections is used, for example, by committees for several cities or municipalities. On the other hand, we have, of course, the dates of the local elections. They allow the existing infrastructure to be used, saved in the means of the elections themselves, but almost certainly that if a good communication campaign is not made, and I am convinced that the government will work at this maximum can lead to confusion related to election committees and ballots because it is a professor. Pupovac said well, if you take into account that local organisations' committees, city councils, city halls, mayors, deputies, mayors, mayors, mayors, county councils, minority mayors, minority mayors, means when it is taken, you will have units of local self-government with 8.9 lists of different voting methods. But it still needs to be said openly these are technical issues and it can technically be mastered. Accordingly, the SDP club will also refer to the amendment procedure that allows the infrastructure for local elections to be used in the light of election committees for the ad hoc European elections for the European Parliament, provided that the consultations with the President of the Republic of Croatia agree. So, to ease our own consultation and make the job easier for the President of the Republic. Local elections, of course, allow for higher turnout. What needs to be mentioned now, and I think that this really needs to be discussed is elections for the European Parliament and work in the European Parliament, which brings one new valuable experience. It will certainly bring experience to the Republic of Croatia on how such elections are held. Remember, we will hold elections, vote MPs, become a member of the EU, and enter the debate very quickly on the date of the next elections for the European Parliament. Because while counterpart Plenkovic has said well that they are predictable given the report we expect to vote on in the European Parliament very quickly on the composition of the European Parliament for 2014 and beyond, it is expected that some Member States that have already started to ask for certain changes in dates with the understanding that this is about week-on-week changes, 10 days and at this point, Portugal is asking to take into account the fact that there will be a big Catholic holiday, too, to take into account the next elections. This is just to say that today, 6 months or 7 months when the Republic of Croatia is involved in the debate would not say that it is bid. What these elections will also bring through the work of our representatives will also bring about the almost certain opening of new topics in the Republic of Croatia. We will not be able to escape that every European topic and the next elections for the European Parliament, not these, but the regular ones will certainly be devoured by national topics. You can't get away from that. However, there are several examples in the Member States that I should not say to a referendum that was already in two countries over six, seven years ago which fell due to national issues. So, we won't be able to say national topics just like that, let's just say now they don't get into the story about European topics, they won't be able to escape with domestic policy. But it is almost certain that for next year some of the topics of European, regional policy, cohesion policy, agricultural policy will be discussed in the Croatian public. And let us hope that we are aware that European topics are not topics from 1300 km away from Brussels, but that these are topics that pervade the entire Croatian society, all segments of society and all its institutions. I'm going to say it openly here, Professor. The Pod spoke well of a new environment, spoke well of a new model of work, and spoke well of just that new topics would be opened. And now there was one replica to which the same should be answered. There'll be surprises for many probably, but yes. Today, representatives of the European Parliament from different parties from the Republic of Croatia will stand together and push national interests regardless of which group they belong. And that is, say, the most normal thing for a lot of issues in the European Parliament. I spent some time upstairs and watched how it works when German MPs promote a particular topic or a particular idea regardless of party membership. It is also almost certain that these European topics will be translated into the Croatian Parliament and that the Croatian Parliament will function differently in its work, that in this place, too, this Assembly will discuss the European Council and discuss EU policies both through the the thematic sessions of the Committee and through the plenary itself. And it is almost certain that certain topics will spill over to the Croatian public and open new topics to the public. And I think that my colleague Plenkovic mentioned this example well, which is now happening, because what is happening on the European Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee is being closely monitored in Croatian media. Let us hope that such a follow-up will remain in the coming years. Finally, these technical changes will support the SDP club and, as I said, an amendment has been sent in the procedure that will allow for consultations to be requested to be held on the same date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32521	Thank you very much. We're on our way to replicas, Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32522	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Mondekar you mentioned the deadline for holding the general elections for the European Parliament 2014. So just this morning another resolution was adopted on the Committee on the Constitution of the European Parliament, a resolution co-authored by one Polish representative of Tržeskovski, one of the Italian representatives of Gualtieri. It is a resolution that analyses the future composition of the European Parliament in 2014/2019. As regards the team two months ago, the European Parliament voted in a resolution that, exceptionally due to the holidays that moved to May in June 2014. The final decision shall be made by the European Council. So, the Member States will see. And when it comes to the composition of the European Parliament, it is important for the Croatian public to recognise why this debate is happening. The debate takes place because the Lisbon Treaty provides for a maximum number of MPs to 750 plus the president. The current composition of parliament has 754, with 12 Croatian MPs will be convened by 766 until the end of this resolution, and this resolution deals with mathematical and political technical issues how to raise 766 to 751 in light of the fact that Germany will surely lose three because it is agreed by the Lisbon Treaty. And this is one of the first potential battles for future representatives directly elected to the European Parliament from Croatia, to make arguments as to why it is important for Croatia to have 12 in the next 5-year term, and not 11 MPs, as stated in the text of this resolution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32523	Thank you. Nikola Vuljanić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32524	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Mondekar, you said that in an independent, therefore isolated, election for the European Parliament, the messages would be clearer, so that there would be no cacaphony, a conflict of messages, but it seems to me that there is no such danger at all. The political messages we send in the local elections and the political messages we will send for the parliamentary European elections will not differ and should not differ. You yourself said that all these topics, all of the topics and our Croatians will become European and European themes, and that is the fact, and we are standing in certain political positions. We will stand in one election and another, and I think it will be quite recognizable that this fear is perfectly unnecessary. Already, the fact that you're conducting these elections in this way you said that this raises the level of democratic culture is also a local topic. Don't you think, and we talked about this a few years ago in this House, that a similar system that raises democratic culture would be appropriate for this Parliament? Not this kind of system partitocratic where the head of the party puts the first one on the list and still doesn't really have a dilemma but some kind of open system? A few years ago we suggested it, of course, both sides of this hall refused. These are all topics where Europe and Croatia cannot be separated and do not need to be separated. So we're in Europe, we'll be there tomorrow and formally, and the topics are the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32525	Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32526	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I must admit that I have no doubt that the representatives of the European Parliament coming from Germany will be representing the interests of Germany together. I have no doubt and I am not surprised that representatives from Slovenia were also unanimous when they were to make their proposals and opinions about the amendments concerning the Republic of Slovenia. But I deeply doubt, given the experience so far and this year, how many 12 observers we have in the European Parliament that MPs coming from the Republic of Croatia will represent in the European Parliament the unique interests of Croatia, not the interests of party groups to which they belong. You say that issues and European issues will be raised here in the Croatian Parliament and will be discussed in Brussels on our issues. It is to expect that we have a normal situation, but how do you believe that when you have a situation that we have not discussed before, no one has asked us from the Government of the Republic of Croatia here in the Croatian Parliament how it was possible that the projected funds for the Republic of Croatia from the Funds are reduced from 13 billion and 700 million euros to 11 billion and 700 million. This is a 15% reduction, and at the same time our membership fee remains the same, our payment obligations towards the EU are the same, and the funds we will have the right to use are by the decision of Brussels, without the government even blinking, let alone asking Croatian representatives in the Croatian Parliament what they think about it. And then don't we have the right to doubt how we're going to behave? It would be normal for all of our 12 or 11 MPs to represent Croatia's interests unitedly, but we have a legitimate concern that it will not be so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32527	Thank you very much. Replication response, Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32528	I have said this from the experience we have in the membership of the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Croatian Parliament where our observers who are members of both committees are most normally discussing and agreeing that many topics will come together. And what is happening now, what is well-opened by Col. Plenkovic and what is really happening right now is that everyone is sending one and the same message to the European Parliament when it comes to the Croatian report now in debate. And it would be tragic for me to come up with any subject and now make it up like this. Connecting European facilities that Croatian representatives together do not perform for better interests of the Republic of Croatia. And just the practice that's up there shows that's how it's gonna happen. That when a Member State is in the game, MPs perform when its interests are in play together. I don't doubt that at all. Secondly, this is my second term in the Committee on European Integration. In the last term, we haven't had, say, four years of thematic sessions we've had in six months. And by the time Croatia enters the EU, we will discuss at least two more times the EU budget, for all MPs, it will be the subject of cohesion policy and new funds to learn what is coming to us. And it is almost certain, I guarantee you, that the key topics of Europe will be able to discuss at the tide and that political parties will be able to ask for individual EU policies to come here to be discussed by the competent minister. It will almost certainly be possible very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32529	Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32530	Dear counterpart Mondekar is justifiably concerned that this will not be the case in the European Parliament. I too see the fact that Croatian MPs in the European Parliament will defend the exclusive interests of Croatia and all its citizens and ultimately the Croatian state. It's justifiable fear. It is clear to me, too, that everyone who is now an observer, who has tasted that way of saying life in the European Parliament, is practically defending their position and that is quite clear. And everyone's representing, I'd say "Croatian interests". Well then obviously a good proposal, so here we move the Croatian Parliament, because it is obvious that MPs have to go to Brussels to represent national interests, and here in the Croatian Parliament they cannot agree on basic issues, basic questions of living standards in the Republic of Croatia. I don't know if you can answer that? Which is why they are like all MPs, which is why there is no consensus in this House, there is no agreement on important political issues. Let's all get together how to increase production, how to increase economic growth, how to reduce employment, how to raise pensions, how to raise the lowest personal income, how to enable people to live decently from their work, how we can't agree on it, but when we go to Brussels, then we will represent the clear and loud Croatian interest. Well, I don't believe that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32531	The answer to Daniel Mondekar's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32532	Thank you very much. Col. Vinkovic, it is easy to reach a consensus when each topic is not politicised but to the end. Well, now we've started with the European Parliament, and we've ended up completely in production, bread and milk. So it's back to politics, you start with one again, you're done with the other. I don't know what your message is then, my experience that I spent some time in Brussels is different. Your message obviously sounds that when the elections for the European Parliament are over, when we join the EU, that the HDSSB alone will not participate means that certain national interests are not put in the first place for all of us to fight for. I really don't understand it then, so I guess that's a message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32533	And Davor Ivo Stier replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32534	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Mondekar, I agree with you, indeed, that the Committee on European Integration has held more thematic sessions than before. In the last term, of course, in the last term, as you know, the chairman of that committee was your party colleague, Neven Mimica, but well, it's good that we're making progress in this regard as well. But my replica was because of your claim that it is important for our citizens to understand, understand better, and to make better communication about how decisions made in Brussels really concern local self-government and directly affect the lives of every citizen and every local environment. And that is another reason for me precisely why these European and local elections can and must be held together, in the long run, before the Copernicus Turn and Minister Bauk said there would be European and local elections together. And now we would like to propose Article 36 of this proposal a change which is not only technical in nature, I think everyone would agree if only those technical changes were introduced in this proposal that would allow the European Parliament to hold elections before 1 July. But the change in Article 36 is actually a change in deadlines for holding elections, so elections could take place in April. So, the government that has waited so long to pass this law, suddenly wants to speed it up and almost not to have any campaigns or to talk about European elections and go undetected. So why this so radical change of colleague Mondekar?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32535	The answer to Daniel Mondekar's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32536	Thank you very much. So this is the law of colleagues and changes to this law enter into that rank that does not exist early enough, there is only politically late enough given the process that you still, you all mentioned, lasts ratification. We could have changed the law, say, at the 11th month of last year, had a Christmas election. When we had 18, 19 ratifications at that point, so there'd be a debate here, I already know now, there'd be a debate here why it's so early to do, so ratification, so it's still a ratification, etc. This, I'm still telling you leaves space, so everyone agrees to go to local elections then. There is plenty of room left for us when we pass the March which, in the field of European policy, is extremely important, given the resolution of the dispute on the Ljubljanska Banka, INA, monitoring report, leaves us with a space until we join the EU to hold elections for the European Parliament, the campaign, the consultation and that our representatives normally act as euro representatives on July 1st. There's plenty of space. In this case, there's plenty of space. It was an idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32537	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of HNS Representatives' Club, counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32538	Thank you, Madam Vice President, fellow ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS will support the bill. The law technically regulates and operationally all that is necessary for the quality of the conduct of these elections and is compatible with our other election rules that are linked to the elections for, in the Republic of Croatia. We believe that these elections, which, ad hoc elections we must organise before Croatia enters, are formal entry 1. 7. in the EU, the challenge for Croatian citizens, the challenge for democratisation, the challenge for bringing citizens closer to the idea of the EU and what Croatia should not only get but also give and contribute to the area in which we will be formally in a few months. These choices, in our opinion, are sweet concerns, that is, all that we have debated in the last few weeks, and it was mostly about the timing of the elections. These are all sweet concerns for us because, it should be one great festival, one great joy that Croatia has come to an end, that is, before the end of this very gruesome or most exhausting road that has passed through accessions compared to some of the other members who entered before us. These days unfortunately, nothing is said but about these elections except how much they will cost, and they advocate the timing of these elections, regardless of what's really best, or where it would come out with these arguments, which is really best for Croatian citizens, and perhaps the cheapest for Croatian citizens than it is for a single dispute, I will not say but one argument between the various political options related to the estimates that are certain comparative advantages of this timing or the time of holding elections depending on the final result that could result from this timing. That's what we think isn't at least right and not good. We consider that it calls the elections of the president of the Republic of Croatia and still has enough time to gather all relevant political options and in one discussion and agree with the arguments on the table to make the best decision when the elections should be called. I mean, when it comes to bone, then I can't say an old saying that says, "I'm not rich enough to buy cheap stuff." The question is, if we save this election in a way that we're going to go to that election together with the locals, what are we going to get in the end? If what we get is cheap, if it doesn't have the right value or the higher value that is expected of these choices. If it's just a trial deadline for MPs for a year, if we only get single-use representatives, then in reality, we haven't actually done a good job. This HNS has been thinking in this direction that we should still consider that these choices, regardless of their cost, are separate from other choices because they are our first. One of the colleagues here mentioned the situation in some other EU Member States, or how they conducted these elections, and the fact is, the practice says that these elections in several versions overlapd with some other national or local elections in those countries. But we need to know that all these members have, most of them have a much longer tradition democratic and most of them have already passed one round of these elections. So they have some good practices and they have already met their citizens and they have come to understand the meaning of what it is to be represented, or what it is to be, in general, what it is to be chosen for the European Parliament. This is not the case with us, although we talk a lot already in these years, perhaps too long we talk about the EU through accession, but the fact that our citizens are not sufficiently familiar with the scheme itself. These elections would certainly be, even though they are temporary in some way they would certainly be a good opportunity for citizens to get closer to the topic. In addition, we at the HNS believe that the extremely important quality of people who will run for office may be more important than the political options themselves, although of course for the first time, and this is a great step for Croatian citizens to have the opportunity to have the same debate and within the political options in Croatia regarding national elections for parliament, where we open up the possibility to choose persons, means that we have open lists, except that we can choose the political person for whom we are, we can even choose one person, which is a new step, and we think it takes time for our citizens, our voters to recognize at all these people, that they are visible within this relatively short period that is ahead of us. We need to know that in these local elections, just before I think it was in the debate in replicas that more than a thousand people would participate in the local elections. This is where a few dozen candidates will appear. It's hard to believe, so technically all this can be done. We have no doubt that we do not have the resources of technical and operational and knowledge to make these choices in this regard. However, whether or not we can really do them in the right way is a very large question about the HNS. We will not be able to escape in the best case of cacophony, the debate of the election without speaking to the candidate and, of course, very ugly as we often do in the elections of mixing these two stories that are very easily possible to happen. In this everything will be lost meaning the quality of these choices, and we think that we should seriously consider it since the first elections have gone that way to bring them together with the locals. Here's so much for this part. Of course, what we welcome through this amendment means that we have been able to cut deadlines, although we may have been able to do so a little earlier, but we have cut deadlines so that we are still in that timing that lies ahead of us until 1.7. It's a good system of half-opened lists, maybe this is a good first step, even though there are those who have gone far ahead in their electoral laws, which may be some future for us. The HNS will support it. This opening of some dirty debate or even less populist and demagogue on this topic when there should be elections, and in particular manipulation by calculating what would be more appropriate to anyone, I think it is not good for our citizens first, and I don't think the EU will look very fondly at it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32539	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. He's my first colleague, Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32540	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Turkish counterparts Djuric stressed that these elections are a challenge for Croatian citizens and that they will contribute further to democratisation. However, it seems to me that here these challenges will be and are now for the Croatian Parliament in two components, both in technical and content terms. Namely, how the Parliament works will show that it will not correspond to how the EU Parliament works where we know that both the agendas and the session schedule are known in advance, and this will also, technically, cause a number of problems. In parallel, it also raises questions as to how our sessions are reflected. In fact, we know that we do not know when the session begins, when it ends, we do not know what day of the week is being held, the agenda that is being passed, in the morning is no longer worth the afternoon, the laws that are proposed do not have an analysis of the situation, the assessment of the situation of what is wanted and this will lead to another problem what has already been said today how to coordinate and define national interests. And this will warn us that we neither discuss development strategies nor national strategy nor individual strategies of economic, political, information, transport or other. And this means that our representatives will have a very serious problem in how to balance these interests, or to articulate these interests together, given that we did not bring these strategies to Parliament at the beginning of the mandate of each of these or annual programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32541	Thank you very much. A response to the replica of Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32542	So I agree with my colleague that our way of working is not let's say adapted to some new modern times and that we will probably need to discuss both the relationship and very quickly I hope that we will talk about both the Government and the Parliament and how and at what speed all these laws are handled both by the Government and how they reach the Parliament and how we work in this assembly. Of course, the satisfaction is certainly not shared by any MP, but the time ahead and some good practice in the EU and by the members, and also by the EU Parliament itself is something that I hope will quickly affect us that we will have to change these bad habits that actually limit us in the work we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32543	Replica Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32544	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, you have said that these elections are an opportunity for your kind of sweet concerns about timing choices. I think that since these are ad hoc elections and that the mandate of the newly elected MPs will last a year, I think we must be guided by the principle of responsibility. And the principle of responsibility also involves considering the financial aspects of the organisation of these elections. Already next year, an independent EU parliament vote with a term of 5 years enters our electoral calendar. This is a coincidence that we have a chance to enter only 42 days after the local elections. If they weren't here, and it might have been that we wouldn't be having this debate. And that is why it seems to me that we still need to keep in mind that we cannot invite Croatian voters within such a short period of three weeks in a row, for example. to the election. Local elections will have a second round in many areas, but not everywhere. If we want to be rational and logical, I think this occasion is a 19th May meeting we can't miss. Also last week, I thought he was the minister here and we were talking about the Bill on the financing of political parties and election promotions. We referred to this opportunity as a total ceiling of funds intended for the EU elections. He's 1.5 million kuna. Croatia is one electoral unit, otherwise the ceiling is one election unit of 10 electoral units. The funds for this campaign are not large and should be taken into account. And what you said about information, I think the burden of responsibility in this business was, above all, on the current government to fill in that gap, which is obviously more than obvious in terms of knowing election technology.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32545	A response to the replica of Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32546	Well, in my discussion, I also expressed certain doubts and arguments for each other. Of course, the question now, according to my personal position and attitude of the Croatian People's Party, is somehow outweighed by these moments, which are in favour of these elections if they are organised together with locals, although the whole series of, of course, regional elections is a whole series of precisely European topics are regional issues. So I don't doubt that in that part, too, the content of the election could be matched. But the fact is that it's about candidates, that we here have to choose one responsible team of people. It seems to me that in the elections where I say there are thousands and more of some other candidates who will each carry some of their own ballots in local self-government even by county with these candidates for the European Parliament will surely come in, if nothing else will meet in the same places. It also promotes electronic media, also interactions, etc. It will certainly not be easy to agree, and to make it quite clear to our voters who is where and who is what and what the candidate is for and what he stands for. Here in that sense, I think this weighs more than you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32547	Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32548	Thank you. Dear colleagues as to when these elections should take place, it is not disputed that it is the most meaningful and not only the cheapest but also the result will be the most credible if they are the result of the exit as many Croatian voters as possible. And that is beyond a doubt that it will be if they are made together with the local elections. However, I would point out here a certain illogicality about how to choose Articles 23 and 26 of the Law, not these amendments and additions. Therefore, members will be elected by proportionate representation and preferential vote. It's all right. This Regulation shall enter However, this means that they will vote for the list and one of the candidates, so theoretically the one under regular number 9 can enter and not the one under regular number one. However, Article 26(4) says this: "Preferred votes for individual candidates are respected if the number of preferred votes of a particular candidate is at least 10% of the votes won by a single list." It's theoretically possible that all 12 candidates on the list, that theory gets equal number of votes, and that's not going to be 10, that's going to be 8.3%. And then this item, I know item 6 says that unless it's item 4 and 5, you can't go according to it then you go to the order on the list. That's all clear. But if this happens then we don't need this item 4. It is unnecessary, it can cause certain misunderstandings because you can really get 15% of a list of votes, win a certain number of mandates, and that all 12 candidates have an equal number of mandates and all will have 8.3% of the total vote of the list. This may cause a lot of problems and need to consider whether or not we need to modify that item 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32549	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32550	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, we are discussing the Amendment to the Law and we were able to lead the debate on speedy preparations and vote-making are officially called ad hoc elections. The term of office to be given to representatives or members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia will take a nominal year, effective 9 months, because there is also a time for disbanding before elections and campaigns. In June next year, regular elections for members of the European Parliament are held. Now 12 members of the European Parliament, 11 or 12, will be elected in these elections in Croatia. So it's still mathematically calculated and it's fighting a political battle to stay on the 12th. However, the way these elections are conducted is the newspaper in the electoral system in the Republic of Croatia that citizens first meet. He'll have practically two votes. I can vote for one of the lists offered in the elections and I can give them so-called. preferred voice. So I can decide for one of the 12 candidates on the list, give him a preference, an advantage over the others. So the order of candidates on the list 1 to 12 does not have to mean anything because the mandate will be adopted by those candidates who get at least 10% of the votes that the list received and then those preferred votes are counted. However, the voter does not have to use the right of the preferred vote and is sufficient to decide on one of the lists. This newspaper may be confusing for part of the electoral body, but on the other hand we will test to make it look like the Croatian Parliament is being chosen by the same model. Because if the EU has offered such a model to elect its members, let these elections be a test for us and for the possibility of serious political thinking to introduce such a rule for the Croatian Parliament as well. Of course, that it is terribly important to inform citizens of this new electoral model, that this is the task of both us MPs and the State Election Commission, fellow Plenkovic will probably agree with me except the Government and the DIP, but also the media in the Republic of Croatia that I want to believe will write more about the importance of the European Parliament and about the models of the elections than how much travel and salary the representatives in the European Parliament are and whether some will sleep on the station to respect the party's decision to deny part of the salary. Representatives, or members of the European Parliament in parliament, are grouped by political groups. And that doesn't mean that when it comes to the interests of the country from which they come they must have absolute obedience to the political group that they are members of. Of course, there will be a topic where within a political group there are different views of a single representative and there will be no consensus. As it is certain that when the country's interest is at stake, the MPs, or members of the European Parliament, do not have to disciplinedly follow the decision of their political group. However, how does the European Parliament work? Do our observers today know what will be on the agenda on June 5 at 10 pm, when which European Committee is sitting, on which the document is discussed months in advance? And in order for the Croatian Parliament to follow that pace, content and mode of work then here in this house we need to make a big improvement and renovation. Otherwise, indeed, the Croatian Parliament will not be able to be a place where our MPs would receive political views of Parliament that they do not commit, but they could get the political position of the National Parliament. That is why, apart from the form of the elections, the way the Croatian Parliament works is the same important component when we assess the success of the work of our representatives in the European Parliament. As far as the law goes, only two things. Valid, invalid ballots or always rules offered in law go in favour of the list so that invalid ballots will be only those left empty, from which it cannot be understood what the voter wanted to round up or the days preferred votes to individual candidates with multiple lists without any list being rounded up. So, even that ballot where only the preferred vote was given, where the voter circled the name of one of the candidates, and did not round up any list is a valid ballot and he goes to that list. So I think it's a good rule that always when determining the validity of the ballots, things are set up like that. We will have, or we have only given one amendment to this bill. Since these are ad hoc elections and these amendments to the law provide that in these ad hoc elections some rules of the law that remain in force will not be applied, for example the deadline for calling the bill provides for at least 60, but for these elections it is 30 days. Citizens of the EU in these ad hoc elections will not have the right to vote, although in law it remains a right to vote. The blind will not have the right to vote on Braille's letter in these elections, otherwise that provision remains in the law. We propose another exception for these ad hoc elections, and the shortest is that the participants of the election so that the lists participating in these elections do not exercise the right to compensate for the cost of election promotion on the burden of the state budget resulting from Article 18(1) or subparagraph 2. The Law on the financing of political activities of electoral promotion. In fact, since it is indeed in every debate that we open, and especially about the referendum, and when citizens demand it, one of the arguments of opposition is the cost, the cost, the cost, the cost, it costs a lot. If I have the correct data in the state budget for last year, 20 million were planned for the European Parliament. This year's budget includes 95.5 million kunas, and if again I have an estimate or data for these European elections, around 84 million kunas are planned. The adoption of our amendment would save some money, not on the burden of action procedures and bodies carrying out elections, but on the burden of participants to elect political parties or a list of voters to use myself now in new terminology. This is a contribution to reduce the burden on the state budget without in any event affecting the election campaign and the electoral procedure, since it does not affect the costs of the body to conduct the elections. Let no one answer me now that this is about populistism, because if anything was populism it was a way, to open up pre-camping for these spin elections, to representatives in the European Parliament are just a burden, a burden on embarrassing rights, and that people should be disgusted with the turnout of the elections because they will choose some parasites there to embarrass Croatia around the world. It's a matter of political will and decision that these ad hoc choices that we have to make as we have to and now that we have to make one more exception and nothing else. The second contribution to reducing the total cost may be that the President of the Republic shall call those elections on the day on which the first round of local elections, with or with special electoral bodies, is entirely irrelevant to us, it is acceptable both, but apart from the cost reduction, our proposal is more important to explain the fact that the elections are open. Turnout to local elections, the regional elections in Croatia range from 42% to 55%, depending on the municipality, city and county. Political legitimacy of elected representatives, i.e. representatives in the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia, with a turnout above 40%. It's twice as big as we'd have if the turnout in the election was that they were held before 20%. I remind you that the referendum on Croatia's EU accession was about 44.43%, if we go to these elections in April or before local elections, the turnout will not be more than 20%. I think that fellow Plenkovic has shown problems with such choices and poor turnout and how politically this affects the mood of certain countries that did not take care of it, the full political legitimacy of the chosen ones. And that is why we propose to the President of the Republic of Croatia, not to the Prime Minister who at some point played the game, so Malta did not declare the elections on 14.4. He did not know that it was not his authority or wanted to tell him that he had already agreed with the President of the Republic. And then after that, he urged reporters to be mediators between him and us from the opposition to agree on the date of the election. Do journalists have to deal with it, no? I want to believe that the President of the Republic will use his authority from this law and the Constitution and make consultations, listen to everything and finally decide, and we will repeat his proposal that these elections be on the day when the first round of locals is held. Those who advocate April have forgotten two things about turnout as very important elements. It's usually the people who haven't spent, organized any elections, but they're the wisest ones who write about the election, and they've never spent it, they've never been active participants in the election, maybe as voters, and that's all they know about the election. Therefore, the turnout that is terribly important and something else is to hold elections before the final report and its adoption in the European Parliament and by the European Commission, and even in the course of the ratification process of all EU members, I do not think it is wise for me. One of the major milestones is the adoption of a congress report and the fact that we know all the circumstances. These are therefore reasons and motives why Croatian Labourers are proposing an amendment that does not have the cost of electoral promotion to election participants and others, to hold elections on the day of the first round of local elections, so on 19 May because it is then enough time for appeal procedures, dispute resolution, declaration, possible repetition in a particular polling post. The elected members of the European Parliament that if Croatia enters the EU then they can assume their obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32551	Thank you. The following are replicas, first respected colleague Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32552	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Lesar, for the ad hoc election obviously ad hoc law has been made because there is so much, still inconclusive that I will point to another one. Article 13 of the applicable law is not intended for amendment, and can create, as I warned of Article 26, can create practical and confusion. It's about who chooses, who changes in certain cases selected candidate. And it is said that the member elected on the list replaces the first next unelected candidate from that list with the most preferred votes. If there are no more candidates on the list who have received at least 10% of the votes won by the list, the member elected on the list replaces the first next unselected candidate on the list, theoretically. Number 7 on the list received 10.1% of votes and it goes to the European Parliament. The second, unselected on the list, received 9.9 for any reason, cannot consume its right and become a deputy representative in the European Parliament. Who's changing it? Number 8 which is the first next or one to win 9.9 votes, the first unselected one writes, that is Article 13 of Article 26 again I warn Article 26 that item 4 can in practice make a lot of concerns and problems over those 10% preferred votes, and even the theoretical minister was not here, if all 12 get one theoretical number, they will all have 8.33%, no one will have 10%, and what that means, the party has five mandates and has no right to either.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32553	You've explained well. Replication response, dear Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32554	In theory, they can actually happen, I haven't simulated it, but it can happen that all 12 candidates have the same percentage of preferred votes. The rule of order on the list shall then apply as well as if none of the candidates receives at least 10% of the preferred votes. Whether these 10% preference votes are commitments taken by the Eu electoral model. I believe that or is our Croatian norm. There is no proposal for that amendment of that provision, so perhaps here is the minister to reconsider whether that part should be corrected. But what worries me more was the announcement by the SDP Representatives Club that they would submit an amendment that would allow the same electoral bodies to conduct one and the other elections if the President of the Republic agreed or proposed in consultations, in the meantime, that the European elections should be when and local. The time of the amendment is during this debate, and perhaps you fellow Buric have received a call from the President of the Republic and I am not in consultation, so I do not understand whether these consultations will be carried out today so that this amendment can hold water or something else. I don't know if you've noticed this strange position, so the amendment to the same body is electoral if the President of the Republic in the consultation agrees that it should be the same day. So I expect an invitation to consult as long as this debate takes place so that the MP club can submit an amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32555	Second replica, Reverend Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32556	Thank you, Vice President, Mr. Stazic. Comrade Lesar, you have presented a whole series of arguments which we, too, on behalf of HDZ, have pointed out today as a key occasion for the adoption of this law. Several references to predictability of the work of the European Parliament and of the Croatian Parliament, from a small experience of the near-uncomparably incomparable. However, there are some reasons that make the European Parliament significantly different than national parliaments. The European Commission, as an executive institution, does not fully emerge from the majority in parliament. There is what I have said about the principle of consensus and political agreement in a sophisticated game between the Member States of the European Parliament that leads to very rare situations when the European Parliament uses its two largest elements, is one possible mistrust by the Commission that happened to the Santer Commission and by Commissioner Butiljone in the appointment and Commissioner Dali recently. But these are mostly exceptions, not rules. What you said was good about the timing of this law. I hope that the Government will still propose a law on cooperation between the Croatian Parliament and the Government before the first of July in the Parliament when it comes to European issues. It's another important law we need to discuss here, given the powers of national parliaments, in the wake of the Lisbon Treaty. The third element about the kind of demagogy of wages, the way you enter the company quite transparently, which you yourself said and forgot one important thing. In the past, representatives in the European Parliament have had different salaries according to their national practices and states, in order to avoid inequality, the system is unified and it is not irrelevant when you work there with 754, 76 MPs that your rights are equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32557	In reply to the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32558	You're right, colleague Plenkovic. We also often debate here in the Parliament on Parliament's reputation in the Croatian public. One of the reasons for a body's good or bad rating is the way it works. It is likely that everyone in this Chamber would agree to ask them on a basic level whether they are satisfied with the procedure, the way and the speed that we receive the government's proposals for discussion when we are discussing, when the MPs know what the debate will be and what order we will decide. And it's a good thing you reminded me of one regulation, one law. I hope that before the first seventh we will get it, which is a law that regulates the new relationship between the Government and the Croatian Parliament in order to have a relationship with the European Parliament and the role of the Croatian Parliament on further regulation of the law. But such documents, such bill proposals always come at the last minute, by emergency procedure, which again only indicates that some things are not delayed because they were not known but are waiting for a certain moment of political timing to discuss such laws which is not good. The reduction of reputation with different spins and proposals that Europe has left behind, such as the national wage system that was abandoned in the European Parliament and the Croatian prime minister proposes to introduce it back, only talks enough about how the campaign should have started first and that everyone else still doesn't know when the elections should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32559	Now we'll hear the replica of our esteemed colleague, Davor Eve Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32560	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is counterpart Lesar, you reiterated and further argued that turnout for the EU would be the lowest if the elections were organised in April. And they even agree in the SDP, and they said that several times. Now the key question is who is in the interest of organising elections so that fewer people go to the polls? Perhaps only those who fear the results and what people think and how they will vote. 'Cause I guess it's about organising a choice, organizing them when the turnout is the biggest. And we have that possibility it's the 19th of May. And the political importance of this proposal is to allow the EU elections to be organised in April when turnout will be the smallest. Because those technical changes that are necessary for the accession contract are therefore necessary from 9 December 2011 and we all agree, but to change what they require in Article 36, which is to cut deadlines from 60 to 30 days from the call to hold elections, it is unnecessary. It's not just a technical change it's a politically motivated change so elections are organised when turnout is the smallest. Because we could also preserve the current provision could still organise elections for the EU parliament before joining the EU on 1 July. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32561	The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32562	Yes, the bigger the argument and the greater the turnout of each election in terms of obtaining full political legitimacy is a very important thing. And we must, when we are already on the occasion to take advantage of the fact that on 19 May and 2 June we have local, regional elections and the second round will be over throughout Croatia if not for mayors then for mayors. And you're right that this technical change in deadlines indicates that it was an attempt to make elections in early April, but it was from those who were not authorized to call. That's why I want to believe that the President of the Republic will not be guided by a desire as little as possible, but that they will side with those who want as much turnout as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32563	And the last replica of Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32564	Dear counterpart Lesar, indeed, the phones are hot from the president's call to consult particularly opposition parties, so I hope that the entire mobile phone system will not go down, so we will probably be able to reach out and consult here by 13:30 until the framework of this debate. On the other hand, there are a number of facts about how to finance a pre-election campaign in local self-government, or it is by the number of council members, and it goes to the burden of local self-government, for the Croatian Parliament the campaign is financed from the state budget. but if we go as far as SDP went with these Europarliamentaries' salaries that will be given for probably humanitarian purposes then let's give up everything so we're clean in front of the people and in the local campaign and in the Parliament campaign,...what the parties get from the state budget for party work. So we don't really sell fog to citizens. On the other hand, this is more of a question from the minister regarding the technique of things. I see no reason why the EU Parliament, or the EU, paid according to these facts and the analogy of the elections, paid the election and campaign costs for the Croatian political parties. We've expanded the election committees for local elections, fueled the cost of local self-government. I agree that they will be held on 19.5. when local elections are held, but that also then the state participates in the costs of these local elections, not just local self-government. And on this technical matter that the ballot, a sentence, that the ballot will look roughly like this law, these elections must be separate bars in two rooms in one polling place.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32565	The replica matches Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32566	This idea of the cost of electing EU members of parliament is not a bad burden for the European budget. Let it be a task for the newly elected and let them try to launch this debate in Europe. It makes sense. I think this is a topic for the EU as well. What we have proposed as an amendment, not to deny anyone but to regulate in law the participants of these ad hoc elections, so the political party and the lists of a group of voters, are not entitled from the state budget to the cost of promotion. It's not the decision of individuals or parties, it's the legislation, I think it's the cleanest thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32567	Minister Arsen Bauk has now come to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32568	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. With these political topics, I will do something in the final word, and I have been offered the replica of MP Buric over election rules. So when you read like this in the way you presented it, then in this article the 13th word next can cause a certain confusion. If there were no words, the following would be quite clear even though reading other articles of the law and it is very clear that preferential votes only change the order of the list. So he had between 1 and 12 as proposed by the parties and then those who received over 10% of the preferred votes received by the party went to the first of those as many of those who passed that 10% threshold and then eventually went back in order and then the next unselected first in this or that case. So it won't be quite safe unless it's a preferred vote that the eighth one will not be chosen if this fourth one on the list is also unselected. I agree here that perhaps when the law was written in 2010, it was necessary to formulate it better, but as it says, reading the whole spirit of the law is very clear. As far as Article 26 is concerned, I think we've defined how you're in the spirit of what you said. So there's actually another question that we didn't want to open, and that's whether this 10% census of the total number of votes in the list is too big. So whether it could be reduced to 10% of the total number of preferred votes, not from the total number of votes that received the list because it would be one part of the vote for a list that would not be preferred or rounded up or no one would be circled. But in that part of the election rules, those classical election rules in these technical changes, we didn't want to touch because we just had an argument, so that the law could be passed by emergency procedure and that it was technical, indeed only technical changes, including this announced amendment that I believe will come to an end in order to satisfy the business. And as for if and when and who will call, the law has not yet come into force. This old law goes into effect 1.7, as it is now written. Therefore, the President of the Republic still does not have the power to call, and then there is probably no authority or consultation, and consultations through the media have been going on for some time. In this formal part, however, when the law comes into force and that is March 1st, the president will likely call on political parties and agree on the date of the elections. So you put the decimal in the wrong place. We will not after we have learned that the president will call for consultations to add an amendment, but we are adding the amendment to leave more space for the president of the state to call the elections, but it is a rather interesting rhetorical figure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32569	This presentation of yours and the explanation prompted two replicas. Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32570	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, that's exactly what this word is. The next can cause and perhaps you can put a little more precisely that any, legal solution should be absolutely clear, not that it can be interpreted in one way or another. However, Article 13(3) may also cause possible recommendations, as it speaks if there are no more candidates, the member's seat remains unfulfilled until the end of the European Parliament's term of office. What does that mean? It's not in our best interest that we don't have 11 either, but maybe 10 candidates. In what case can it happen that there are no more candidates on the list? In what case? Only in one, as far as I understand. That's if one party gets all 12. What is this situation where there will be no more candidates? Is this a situation where there are no more than 10% preferred votes. You only have two, so now the other one can't go, then the third one has 8% and then he has no right to go. So I think this can also create some confusion and this item is unnecessary. He's unnecessary. What's the possibility that if he's not on the list? It always will be. No one gets 12, all 12 terms one list. Then state the fourth paragraph that this does not apply only to the situation if all were. So we're trying to point out possible indiscretions. This is theoretical, but life is possible. Consider, therefore, whether the paragraph 3 of Article 13 is really necessary. And it's just final. Since this preferential vote and 10% provision are not necessarily imposed by the European Union, consider whether it should be 10% or maybe actually go to that of 12. That could be 8.3%.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32571	Minister Bauk responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32572	We have in the current assembly a case that it can happen that, for example, a list of SDP coalitions, HNS, IDS, HSU in the eighth constituency since the local elections, there are no more candidates. It could have happened in the second constituency. That's why my colleague Lugaric returned to the Parliament. So that's that theoretical possibility. Of course, I would prefer it to happen if from the list of one party there were no more unselected candidates if it were a party to which I belonged but I was not impressed by the opposite situation so that as far as the article is concerned, paragraph 3. it really refers to this situation and this does not cause confusion as let's say this word next in paragraph 2. But I'm talking about an article of a applicable law that hasn't changed because we haven't read it the way you've warned us about it. Therefore, I think that the elections will be conducted neatly and regularly with this Article of the 13th law in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32573	Second replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32574	I didn't hear a practical answer to my question. Well, I am also interested in representing the Croatian Parliament, but perhaps the EU is paying elections for the European Parliament in certain EU member states. First question. The second reading is, therefore, the next analogy by this I believe that the EU should then pay for these elections in the Republic of Croatia. What will happen is that we have expanded the composition of that electoral committee by that local election law and on the one hand we have those well-known citizens of the elections in the Republic of Croatia with the name of the coalition, the holder of the list, the candidate or the name of the political party candidate for the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, his deputies. On the other hand, it's all on one sheet. On the other hand, we have so I would say that it may most likely look like one three, four of these laws our little bit thicker or as a Budget of the Republic of Croatia since they wanted us to admit or not it is extremely tempting it pays in the European Parliament, so it is likely that many citizens will collect that number of signatures and run for office. On the other hand, it's a system of open lists. And a simple question that results in whether it can be done by one election board, so that one unique on the day of the local elections that we agree on for the sake of saving it to be or whether it will be another election board? If it is the same election board, then the state must pay if the EU does not want half of these elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32575	To the reply of Minister Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32576	... Representatives' clubs are proposed that the costs of electoral committees in the event of simultaneous maintenance in equal proportions are borne by the state budget of the units of the regional self-government, so the county is because the elections for both the County Assembly and the Mayor and the City since the elections are both for the mayor and the City Council. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] As for the possibilities of the election boards, therefore, one voter's committee can count the votes only because there are more ballots that need a little more time. ... He won't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So they won't because there's one round on these preferences lists. So, the electoral board will probably put those lists to the candidates, and where there are no candidates per party, so it's relatively easy to sum it up. So if I were to do it at the polling station, I don't think it would be a problem, but we'll try to give it to the election committees as simple as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32577	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Josip Salapic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32578	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on election of representatives from the Republic of Croatia to the European Parliament. Surely one of the key and important laws for the implementation of the elections, at this time several months before Croatia's entry into the EU. Today, many questions have been opened in previous discussions, and some questions need to be answered. As for some views on the replicas of the HDSB Club, it should be said that our party voted in favour of Croatia's entry into the EU, that we supported all those laws that have the mark of European laws because of the national interests of the Republic of Croatia, and that our county is the Osijek-Baranja one of the counties that first opened an office in Brussels and has so far withdrawn large funds from pre-accession funds based on projects nominated according to EU funds. So, we are definitely and certainly in order for these elections to be made in the best possible way because first of all it is about ad hoc elections, but also about ad hoc law that can be said in the least possible way too late found in this parliamentary debate. Why are you too late? From the date of the signing of the agreement from December 2011 until February 2013, too much time has passed and certainly there has been an opportunity to regulate the way in which we will conduct these European elections in the best possible way. First of all, if there are some rational issues, we can see that unfortunately we cannot avoid the reputation of the Parliament's work and of the representatives and problems in Croatia being discussed outside the framework of some laws that are on the agenda. We are today discussing what is best for the implementation of the European elections, the consultation of parties in Parliament, the response of the president of the Republic of Croatia, and we have 20 people here who are either interested or not interested in this topic. And here are our citizens, and here are all the members of the party calling and asking what these government announcements mean that they will end the negatives for citizens in current accounts who care more about European elections and the European Parliament if the citizens will no longer be able to live in our country after 3 months. Now that's something we can't avoid as advocates and what we ourselves need to judge when it's time to discuss. Well, I'm sure it was time to discuss these elections and this law somewhere a few months ago. Well, good. What common sense says these are elections where the term of office of our MPs in parliament will last about a year, sometime by June 2014, and certainly should be held by elections in a way that we do not spend budget and finance on what is not so necessary at the moment. So our club advocates that elections for European Parliament MPs should be held in this way in the first round of local elections, so on 19 May 2013, because this is the best solution that requires additional technical efforts, but we also heard from the DIP that there will certainly be problems in the conduct of these elections and that it is technically possible for them to be implemented. What we regret is that so far we have not been able to solve this before because there will be really problems in the polling stations. We won't all be able to influence our citizens, someone better at the polls, someone a little worse. But this will be the elections and the ballots will look very strange, there will be lots of candidates and lots of lists, so it will be like a bed sheet if there are so many candidates announced, there will be problems in the candidates, counting votes and how the ballot will look according to the level of the elections and how the proposed text of the law will implement the elections for the European Parliament. So, we need to make every effort and there is now a call to the DIP that given the importance of these elections, I say it would not be good for the turnout to be small for these elections, but given the technique that all efforts are being made, that they be as easy as possible, first of all, to all the good structures of our citizens of the RS who will go to polling stations so that there is no confusion about what is voted for, how it is voted, because then we have not achieved the goal if we have saved, and we need to save. And we haven't done a technical good, it can be questionable and there's a lot of invalid ballots, a lot of failed votes. Then only the democratic will of the electoral body is questionable. So we need to do everything we can to ensure that this is carried out in the best possible technical sense. These issues that have been raised about what our European observers are doing in Brussels and Strasbourg, and what future European representatives will do, are now more a question of citizens' information but also the roles of the Croatian Parliament in this. Our citizens, above all, should be informed about what European MPs will do, so those issues that have been raised whether they will represent truly national interests or join certain political groups in Parliament, so they will be, therefore, representatives of the policies of those groups that are greater than those that are smaller. So that's not a stupid question, there are no stupid questions. We were witnesses, it's Croatian history, but sometimes in the Austrian-Hungarian state in the joint Croatian-Hungarian assembly, our representatives thought of as scholarships, that they only came for scholarships, or wages, so here are the European representatives who really shouldn't be scholarships. Unfortunately, this collective apathy towards the EU opened, today someone said in a debate that we might have spent the EU before we consumed it. And that is indeed true, unfortunately the reasons for these are other natural ones, not this law that we are discussing today, but a bad economic and financial picture of Croatia. It's simple if in citizens there's an apathy towards politics, towards the state and the politicians, according to the society in which we live, if today we're going to talk about how someone will survive who has 2,000 kuna, 3000 kuna, is paid, it's minimal to eliminate this allowed minus that 3 salary, how will they live in June, July and by the end of the year? Then it no longer matters who will be a European representative, or how much his salary will be, or what the Croatian Parliament is doing, or what we are saying here today, but how it will survive in this country. So we need to take care of everything, we need to take care of the interests of our citizens. Today, when we listen to this debate, we are talking about another dimension of life that awaits us in the EU, and our citizens and our ordinary people, workers are being tortured by something else. So it is our common role, we support that this electoral law be passed in this form, that elections be held in the most powerful way for our citizens, that they be visiblely clear in the way they will be voted on and what, because a lot of efforts have been made to become a full member of the EU. We should not be confused because of the lack of information about what our EU membership means, which means EU funds, which will be done by our representatives. There should be no question that the different picture of the life in which we live today in the economy and the wages should not be a question of their salaries, what they will spend them on, whether these salaries will be for humanitarian purposes or what the parties are proposing, it is important that these representatives really represent national interests, and we are, for example, Slovenia and problems with Slovenia, which has nothing to do with Croatia's accession to the EU, to see how much Slovenia is held together in its national interests, regardless of the parties represented, to various policies, as they are together when it comes to national interests. So God forbid that's how it works with the RS MPs in the European Parliament and God forbid this law is the one that'll make it better for our citizens. We at the HDSSB club are afraid that our country's entry into the EU will make life in Croatia unfortunately, we thought it would be better, but here are these announcements today about some new government proposals and today's situation in this half-empty assembly when we talk about this law more about us living, some politicians, some parties in another dimension than people in the Republic. I believe Croatia's entry into the EU will be a new beginning, not an end for Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32579	Thank you, too. Now we'll hear the lines, first respected colleague Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32580	Thank you very much, Vice President Stazic. Dear counterpart Salapic, you have appealed in your presentation for an effort to explain to Croatian voters how to vote. It has good practices, it is important for the Croatian public to know that it is the European Parliament, and here it has been mentioned what the European Parliament is paying for. For the 2009 elections, he organised a campaign and financed with 18m euros under the motto, the choice is yours. The campaign lasted from March until the start of the election campaign in all member states and allowed the general public to inform them about what MPs are doing, which are Parliament's powers, why it is in the interest of Member States to identify that this is the European Parliament and their Parliament. No, some kind of virtual, somewhere in Strasbourg, Brussels or Luxembourg, given its seats, is already very specific. And here I think that, in cooperation with the future European Parliament's office to be opened, as far as I am informed in the weeks to come, the government should also ask for financial support to replay the 2009 campaign just before the start of the campaign in Croatia. They have finished materials, finished videos, ready posters, ready general information that was applicable in 27 Member States and there is no reason not to be applicable today. And that's why I think your appeal is very welcome and that in the operational sense, it's still enough time, of course, if it doesn't go to this April adventure. And I appeal again to the President of the Republic to be truly just and to be the protector of state and national interests in determining election terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32581	We will also hear the reply to the replica of counterpart Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32582	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Plenkovic, we fully agree with our thesis that so far, with the great efforts made in certain areas, given the problems that have arisen, all the images of Croatia's really crucial interest when we enter the EU have fallen into another sitting because of lack of information. I sincerely hope and appeal that these elections will not be in April, because indeed, then, what is going to be less information is that citizens do not need to know everything about what Croatia means to join the EU, but the state is obliged to inform its citizens what it means. We've had problems so far, monitoring, whether we've harmonised legislation, which is wrong with our laws, which is fine, which is what we have to and we don't have to. At the end of this time and the problem with Slovenia that has opened up, the problems that our observers and future MPs who are elected are all about how much money someone will have in Parliament, not what they really mean for EU membership. Our voters have been entitled to vote since 18 years and are not obliged to know everything but we as politicians and the Parliament and the state and the government are obliged to inform our citizens what it means, so this fear of responding to the voters for me would be a disgrace and disaster if it were a very small response to the European elections, because after 20 years of difficult times, if we shame ourselves on that fact that no one cares anymore what it means for Croatia, then we really consumed the EU before we became a full member. It will be a great regret for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32583	The Republic is also represented by counterpart Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32584	Thank you. You told your colleague God forbid our representatives there in the European Parliament represent some particular party group and similar interests is unnecessary to say. Don't give God from the experience I have there that doesn't happen. It's not happening, it didn't happen. We share information and colleagues Grubisic and colleagues Plenkovic and colleagues from SDP, all of whom are there sharing information, and when one of us learns something, he doesn't ask or think whether it's from my group or not, but whether it's important for Croatia, whether it's from Croatia for God's sake, so if they can behave like this, all the groups in the European Parliament will be able to act as well. It is a general practice in all political groups that there is no party discipline if it is the country's national interest. It's just that it can be set up differently and no one will do anything to you. So you shouldn't be afraid of it. What's in this situation for me is actually a bigger problem is that this crazy misinformation. Not only do people not know how they're going to round up the ballots and we're going to show them that, too. It's a technique to be made, there'll be mistakes but we'll do it. People don't know why we're doing it or why we're going there and what's going to happen there. That 80, 90, maybe more than one percent of the population of the Republic of Croatia, and even the MPs here in the Parliament don't know. It's the guilt of all the governments so far, and it needs quick, quick, fix, there's the key to things, and we need to know why we're going to these elections, not how we're going to round up the ballot, we're going to make it easy, but why we're even going there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32585	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32586	This is what we all need to know first and foremost, because what we knew as representatives in the Croatian Parliament had a colleague Grubisic as an observer in parliament, so we knew as representatives, but what the whole public knew was that for example, Slovenia should have learned, we could see what it means to represent national interests under quotes blackmail to solve national problems related to the Ljubljana bank and the issue of borders. This is what the Slovenian Parliament is discussing in some kind of quick session where Croatia has been discussed. On the second day, we had a foreign minister's report on adapting EU legislation to our tasks in which we will have to bring the quarter without having said a word or two at that time really about the real problem, which means, what happens to Slovenia that could at a crucial moment block Croatia's entry into the EU 1. July, could or could not, it is now a matter of wider European policy but it has created the impression that Slovenians are protecting their national interest and that we MPs in the Assembly are sitting here talking about some other issues that are not key national issues for the Republic of Croatia at the moment. That's what doesn't God let that happen. That's why I said it and it's my legitimate concern to me, and all the rest is how it's going to show the time that's ahead of us. Unfortunately, for now, that's the way it is. And we're here to change that. And our citizens expect it from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32587	We will now hear the individual debate of the respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32588	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the discussion of clubs, actually, everything's already been said, maybe there's something I need to do again. I'll start with these special discussions. The most important thing is to know about everything. I agree with all those who think that we are entering the EU with little knowledge, there is little knowledge for citizens, not their own fault, but the guilt of the current government and the guilt I will now mention again the HRT which is public television and which had to do everything first to fulfil its obligation to the public and to inform citizens from day to day what it will mean when they become EU citizens. What will change in their lives? First of all, these elections for the Euro Parliament are also related to the national interest because the more citizens know what is waiting for us in the EU, the more citizens are informed, the more members of the European Parliament will go to the polls. The date of the election is very important. Why does it matter? Because if we bring the Euro Parliament elections together with the elections of the first round of local elections, the elections for local self-government will certainly make the turnout bigger. There will be some synergy. Try or perhaps assume that they are unintentioned not to make elections either before the local elections or after the local elections if the turnout would certainly not have crossed perhaps 20, 25% is not good for the Euro MPs and neither for Croatia's dignity itself. The strength of members of the European Parliament is also how many Croatian citizens have chosen them. The calculations of some parties to suit them with less turnout is wrong you have just heard and in the replica of Mr Vuljanić and Salapic it is there to defend Croatia's colors, to defend national interests, not the interests of the parties. Of course, each party wants as many of its euro-parliamentaries as possible, but when they come to Brussels they do the same job, defending interest as they defend the interests of their other euro-parliamentarian countries. The most important thing in the whole story is the education of Croatian citizens. We have made little effort to educate Croatian citizens, which means the EU and what the EU elections mean. I think the wrong message was sent by one of the Croatian parties, I think it was the SDP that sent a message that a large part of its salary would give the europarliamentaries humanitarian purposes. What does that message mean? That message means, these are people who go to Europe who make too much money, they don't deserve the money they get there because even citizens know what these euro-parliamentarians are doing, what the salary in the EU is for parliament, what the rest of the EU parliament is getting. You were talking about the fact that it was a practice that Europarliamentaries were getting paid as much as their salaries were in their parliaments. However, due to the unification of the criteria and because the assumption is that all EU members are equal to the same pay. If we approach volunteering towards this problem in a way that we will cut by 4/5 wages, they will receive the salary they receive in the Croatian Parliament, I think it is clean I rarely serve it but it is not good I will not even use the term you use for us because it is our right to think in the population, pure populist, is not good, it is simply a violation of the dignity of EU members of parliament from Croatia. It is clear to the citizens what the list means for the EU, which means an open list, which means preferred votes. If you do a survey there now, you'll see that a large part, and that's more than 90% sure people don't know which way they're going to vote. If we are all going to prepare elections for the EU this way, Parliament's turnout is clear that in the first round of elections for local self-government people will vote in the elections for local self-government but will not vote for the EU parliament, because first they will be uncomfortable not knowing what they should vote for, there will be a stalemate at polling stations because they will not be exposed to the views of those citizens who know it, and these citizens will be few. We are doing everything to detimise the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to go to elections for the EU parliament. It is also bad if it is shortened from calling elections to holding elections from 60 to 30 days. It's also a bad message. We hope that the President of the Republic of Croatia who is calling the elections will also influence, I like to say it will affect, that this deadline does not shrink, that he will talk to the prime minister, as I hope to discuss these things. And I repeat at the end of Mr Vuljanic's word, it's insanely uninformed. And that is what Minister Bauk must know, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia must know and those who must be about the knowledge of the nation, and one of these institutions is public television. Therefore, everything should be done to inform Croatian citizens about the way they vote, about what Europarliamentaries in the EU mean and what it means to defend, and we have fought to join the EU at that common table of the interests of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32589	Thank you. Now we'll hear the replicas. First respected Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32590	Thank you. Uninformed is crazy. The question is, is it random? What kind of picture do Croatian citizens have of the EU after the referendum when a relatively aggressive campaign was carried out? Today, the EU is seen as a bank of pigs more or less. There's about 10, 15, 20 or how many billions of euros that we are now if we're a little smarter we'll pick up more, if we're not smart we'll pick up less but in any case it's a more or less optional bank of pigs who's just waiting for us to get inside. The other aspects of the EU that is widespread in our public are our enemies, there are our future robbers, unlike past robbers who can't wait for us to go inside and buy for cheap money everything we have and leave us even poorer than we are. And the third aspect is, that's where political failures will be taken care of. There are three aspects that go through the most often together, and sometimes both separated and through the vast majority of our media especially through our public television. All three aspects speak very clearly, so you're not going to go to that election where it's being chosen. There's a government, not only this one but the past, that's where the government hasn't done what it has to do and it needs to take advantage of these another 40, 50 days as long as there's a mistake as possible to correct it as much as possible. So not only to explain how it is voted but to explain that the EU is not how it is seen in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32591	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32592	Dear fellow Vuljanic, here is often the word random, so random state, random uninformed. Is it an accident or not, and even I wouldn't say that someone wants the citizens to stay uninformed. Maybe there's that intention. Then she's guilty and passed the government, and so is this government. It's just that the government is doing a bad job. There's even rhyme. Of course, many think we will enter the EU and now the EU will give us money, there is some money I completely agree with in some funds and everything will fall apart. It won't fall from the sky. We could have had a lot more money to fall, money to fall under quotes that we were prepared, that we know how to get out of EU funds. The city of Zagreb only took a handful of money from what it could take from the EU funds, and could take the whole cake. For what? Because of ignorance, unpreparedness, sloppyness, because they do not know at all what the EU is and what European funds mean and how they can and can withdraw money from the EU. Are they there, the second thesis, whether there are enemies in the EU, Brussels and everyone is waiting to rob Croatia. It is absolutely certain that everyone wants a profit, but they will get as much profit from us as we allow, as much as our euro-parliamentaries will be good and as much as we, our governments will be willing to prevent the withdrawal of money from Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32593	Another replica is respected counterpart Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32594	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Vuksic, you spoke about information and apostrophe of the role of Croatian television in your presentation and in this replica. I think we still have to make a small distinction between the years of information efforts that the past governments have made in relation to this period after the referendum and I say that because here in the Parliament there are several colleagues, and I am among them who have actually been visiting Croatia not only a month before the referendum, but we have been doing this job for two years. However, we are also aware that with all these activities that lasted since 2001, we have managed to reach 10% of voters. All conferences of thematic, agriculture, competition, transport, infrastructure, regional development, academic community, professional associations, NGOs, the media failed to reach more than 10% of people. It wasn't until the mass campaign that you mentioned in the media came to light. The survey data said that more than 70% of Croatian citizens are then informing voters accordingly solely on the basis of information they receive via electronic media and mostly on television. The role of the public service is dominant, most important for me and is just preparing for this European campaign, which is a kind of test this year, and this campaign is a chance for us not even to bring HTV into one situation so quickly that they can't prepare themselves, so that through this strong medium all European topics can be brought closer to the actors of the electoral process. I agree with you here, but I am also not inclined to put an equal sign between what was before the referendum and yet one seen deficit after 22 January of last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32595	The replica matches a colleague, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32596	Dear colleague Plenkovic, I agree with most of your replica. However, it is certainly not your task to visit from door to door and convince citizens. You said yourself that you only managed to reach 10% of the citizens with their activities that some admitted your opponents were successful. 70% of the information and more is obtained through electronic media. That is why I am apostrophe of Croatia's broadcasting because it is her job. However, it is saddened when public functions perform more television than those TVs that are paid to perform public functions. It's just hard to explain why people don't get informed, why they don't. For example, we opened the fourth programme on Croatian radio. Why isn't there a panel discussion? Every night, a panel discussion of some public interest, and one of the most important public interests at this point is Croatia's entry into the EU, preparing for us to get in as ready as possible and for citizens to know, to know tradesmen, to know entrepreneurs, to know the units of local self-government. It is also normal that the campaign must not cease with Croatia's entry into the EU itself. She needs to keep going. For what? So that we can participate as actively as possible in EU policy-making.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32597	Thank you. And honest congratulations to all MPs and MPs. I now give my colleague Sandra Petrovic the opportunity to replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32598	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, thank you and all the MPs who have joined the congratulations. Here is counterpart Vuksic, I would just like to point out that you have said in the EU that MPs represent the interests of their country. I can agree with you on that, but I must remind you that they are grouping in the European Parliament depending on their political worlds. Thus, SDP representatives will be in a group of Socialists and Democrats. We know that depending on these political worlds, they can look differently through different glasses and see what they are and what their country's interests are. So it won't be quite certain whether MPs will group into conservatives or socialists and Democrats. That is how citizens will know if they vote for SDP deputies that they will support the policies of Socialists and Democrats through the prism of their country's interest, of course. I would also like to complement you and agree with you in what you said about wages, that is, equalising the salaries of the representatives of the European Union was in an absurd situation, a few years ago it was corrected. In fact, MPs had the salaries they had in their state parliaments, so the Italians had a salary of up to 10,000 euros, and representatives from Estonia had 900 euros in salaries in Parliament, which is equal to 400 euros less than the salary paid by interns, i.e. the lowest officials in the European Parliament. So I'm telling you from my perspective, from my experience, because I know what the life of an intern means, or life on an intern's salary in expensive Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32599	The replica corresponds to the esteemed colleague Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32600	Your Honor, the Vice President is very brief. I also join the cards and I would not like the members of the Croatian Parliament to sleep at the station. I think they should be worthy representatives of Croatia. I totally agree, I know how they work, our colleague is reporting to us how they work, and I hope we won't even be in the same club, but we'll be representing the same interests. In various clubs, interests can be represented and I repeat the words of Mr Salapic, which is an example of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32601	Now we have two finals on behalf of the clubs. First on behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Davor Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32602	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Minister. From 9 December 2011 The government knew it had to bring less technical changes into this law. The government had more than a year to do it but it didn't, it left everything for the last minute. And now the government is proposing these changes in the situation of total confusion when we don't know when the elections will be, when we don't know when the Slovenian Parliament will ratify our accession treaty and whether it will ratify it at all under what conditions, and this depends on our entry on July 1st. And in such circumstances, the Government proposes a change and article 36 so that these elections could be held in April when turnout will be the smallest. The government that has waited until now suddenly is in a hurry and wants to have elections when there will be the least voters. That is why our message to the Government is clear don't touch the deadlines for holding elections for the European Parliament. So what's the problem, Mr. Minister, with the current solution that allows the elections to be held before we join the EU? That's the question you're saying, so it's not our competence that the President of the Republic will call the election anyway. So if it's not your jurisdiction, why did you bid on election dates? Why did you say you didn't want to have a European Parliament and local elections together? And in the end, why don't we have them together? So do the government think that Croatian citizens cannot distinguish which are European and what are local topics? Do you think that our citizens are not as capable as the citizens of other EU countries where European elections and local elections could be held together without a problem? Of course there's that argument that democracy costs. Yes, democracy costs but Croatian citizens are also costing a power that has managed to implicate the organisation of these elections. The highest cost for Croatian citizens is the authority that has managed to entangle our path to the EU even though it has come to a clean situation with closed negotiations and a signed accession contract. And it wasn't supposed to be like that, in a constructive debate we kept warning last year how and how to bring ratification in order to the end successfully without problems on time. We warned that the prime minister must also sit with Prime Minister Jansa because this is the instance where political ratification will be agreed in the Slovenian Parliament. Because it was clear to anyone who was following foreign policy that Jansa was the one who was pulling the strings and he showed it now. But it seems that he's been pulling not only the strings in Slovenia, but he's been pulling our government's noses all this time. And that's not what we're looking forward to. We can differ by party preferences here, but we need to be together on the outside. And I don't want anyone pulling the nose of the Croatian government. And that's why we're ordering you now, don't let yourself be dragged by the nose and around this meeting on March 10th around the Ljubljanska Banka. So if you said a deal was reached why wait until March 10th? So that this meeting must then be organised before and clearly state the details and ensure ratification. The whole way this procedure has been handled so far is obviously rather vague and cloudy. The only thing is clear is that it is the government's responsibility to ensure Croatia's entry into the EU on July 1st. And we can and we have to help, but it's the government's responsibility and she has to get serious because there's no excuse for the government if we don't get in on July 1st. And that is why we are asking to ensure this ratification of our accession treaty, that when a real agreement is reached with Slovenia that all details are presented to Croatian citizens so that they can judge how the government has done the job and then, and then on 19 May, to go to elections for the European Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32603	First replica, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32604	Here is my dear colleague Stier, we have heard from my colleague Petrovic, whom I also congratulated and congratulated earlier on how we will actually hope that all together, at least those elected to the European Parliament, will represent the interests of Croatia, so all Croatian citizens, regardless of whether you will sit with conservatives or with the Social Democrats and Liberals. On the other hand, these elections really need to be held in 19.05 in order to allow the majority of citizens to choose those who will represent us in the European Parliament because that referendum has also shown an extremely low turnout of voters. But be assured that today most Croatian citizens, even this European Parliament, are more interested in this decision by Minister Linic to abolish the minus, i.e. to allow a minus of one salary. So it is no longer worth that Buric's Vienna: "If a sow had given birth to him three, two Linic, one to him.", it looks like Linic took the 13th pig, the furthest one. Because obviously that's the only way to fill the state budget, by repressing the citizens. Now I can't figure it out, but now I'm going to have a beef for that 13th pig, but we're going to make lyrics.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32605	It's a replica and a Vienna guy answers Davor Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32606	Not on the refugee, Mr. Vice President, but only on the replica. And the replica was actually going on this trail that these elections must be held when we will ensure the greatest turnout, when we will ensure that Croatian citizens are at their easiest, that they can decide who they want to direct to the European Parliament, so why not decide who they want and at local level. And why don't those two things together, why should we invite Croatian citizens to go to elections three times in a row, when we can do it together. I think that's a real argument. And by the way, I agree, we all have to work harder to get Croatian citizens to see and what are the benefits of joining the EU, but we will not do so if we use ourselves exclusively with some cheap demagogy if we tell the citizens, here you will live off the charity that the SDP rich will give you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32607	Now, my colleague Plenkovic, did I see it well that you wanted to replicate your own club? You've reached out to the replica now, haven't you? No, I can't see, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32608	It's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32609	Here you go, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32610	... Here's what happens if it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Specially enabled.]] Since we are in the final phase of the debate... Mr. Vice President, here if you can? [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] In the final word on behalf of the club, you have summed up the views not only of the HDZ in this debate but of a truly wide circle of speakers today and a series of political parties on logical and meaningful and I hope the President of the Republic's expected decision to call the European Parliament on 19 May. One such clear message was expected of this debate in the Croatian Parliament today. I think it was quite precise and very, very clearly justified and in terms of achieving great turnout in the elections and in terms of a rational approach to election costs, which is not irrelevant and what is most important to remove any thesis that might seem to be underestimating Croatian voters that one additional ballot with two chemical pen moves is so complicated that voters could not recognize the challenge on election day. So I think that the political message today, we are technically changing the law which is quite fine and what we had to do, but the political message behind today's debate in the Croatian Parliament is that we are not playing and we are not putting any doubt into their own manipulation or guessing on the date of the election. It would be really sad to organise our first elections in a way that would leave some doubts. Remember that debate before the last parliamentary elections on whether we might have a referendum on EU membership on the same day. It didn't happen, it avoided any manipulation. Let's be consistent about this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32611	The HDZ Club's response, Mr. Plenkovic, will be given by Davor Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32612	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Plenkovic, it seems to me that you have just pointed out what is the most important message from today's debate, which is that this is not only a proposal from one party, it is not even a proposal from the HDZ itself, but it was a proposal that was formed through this debate, because more or less all the representatives participated in it, and that is that elections for the European Parliament must be held on 19 May. We have not heard any other argument that would challenge the advantages that have been expressed in favour of that date. Of course, we know by the law that it is the President of the Republic who calls the elections but it is a political message, I say not only from one club, but in general that comes from this debate, which is a message from the Croatian Parliament that was dominant today in the debate, that on May 19th the best possible date is that as many Croatian citizens as possible can go to elections and choose their representatives in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32613	A five-minute final presentation on behalf of the HDSSB club will be presented by respected counterpart Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32614	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what we've been having today, and it would eventually come down to being the most important thing in all of this election date. It's one of the important decisions we're going to make, really important, but it's not the only one. We all agreed that of all possible solutions, it is probably the best solution to be held together with local elections. Is that the first or the second round? He is ruling somehow in the debates the opinion that it will be together with the first round, and that is what his colleague Salapic said on behalf of our club. However, I would like to point out a few more things that have been spoken here, but fewer speeches that are also important to this law and also to the choice of our representative for the European Parliament. There have also been talks about maintenance costs, whether it must have been so and if our negotiators had said more I would have been persistent and persistent so that we do not have a situation that in two years or less in a year we will have twice the elections for representatives in the European Parliament. That's already a question that's going to run out of answers. However, I would like to remind all and especially the Croatian public that there is no single electoral system in the EU to elect members of the European Parliament, but each Member State will choose its own system freely, with respect for three conditions. So, according to the council's decision. One is the first condition that the electoral system must apply a system of proportionate representation, i.e. proportionate representation. This is what we have, either through the electoral lists, or through the voice transfer system. Another condition that electoral areas must be divided into electoral units in a way that will not affect the system of proportionate representation, and the question arises whether the best and happiest solution is that the whole of Croatia is one electoral unit. We had recently and still had a very current opportunity to discuss that division in the statistical division into two regions, the question arises whether when we were looking for justification could be approached and that Croatia did not have to be divided into five electoral units but which excuse that it is one but not if we already have a division into two statistical regions and into two regions. The question is, it is true, and then the possibility of winning the European Parliament's mandate and individual parties representing interests and these statistical regions in a different way. And the third condition is that the electoral threshold at national level must be 5%, that is not controversial. Often and here are countless times, even though we are talking about the European Parliament's election law here today, we are talking about how our representatives of Croatia's national interests in the European Parliament will be concerned. I remind you that on the official EU site, it is also stated that MPs are elected according to national quotas, but at EU level are not politically organised on the national criteria, but according to political definitions, and then we do not have to sell the story of how, by now, we have observers, when we have representatives in the European Parliament as well as those who will be in the social democratic wing and those who will be in the wings of the European People's Party, will represent Croatia's unique interests. We have reason, it's a desire to be so. But we have reason to fear it won't be like that. We also have reasons based on past experiences. Here are some experiences. I mentioned, a decision was made contrary to the treaty we signed to join the EU, that we would not receive 13.7 billion euros from the funds but from 11.7 billion. The EU is without question any of us but it is even less controversial. The most controversial thing is that no one from the government of the Republic of Croatia or anyone else has informed the Croatian Parliament that the justification is that 15% of the reduced resources that we will be able to withdraw from the EU and that our membership fee remains the same. Our EU membership now costs us more. There's also a question from 12 to 11 MPs, there's a matter of cohesion policy, I think colleague Mondekar was mentioned here. It's clear and late... He's coming to Kosovo. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is over, it is determined how much money we will be able to get for cohesion policy, there are no more talks and agreements on this, the problems of the Ljubljana Bank, etc. within Croatia, there was no debate in the Croatian Parliament, and then it is thorough and justified that our suspicion is that the representatives of the European Parliament coming from the Republic of Croatia will represent the interests of Croatia or represent the interests of the political groups to which they will belong. I'm scared of this other guy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32615	Comrade Buric, arrange your time. Now we'll hear three replicas. First Reverend Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32616	Thank you very much, Vice President. I will refer my colleague Buric to two aspects of your presentation. The first is when you have in some way been troubled by the need to organise these ad hoc elections since the next regular elections for the European Parliament are scheduled for only a year after these. Whether it could be better or not. First, the chapter on institutions under negotiations where this was negotiated has been completed much earlier than the desired date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. As you know, there is a very clear incompatibility of the mandate of MPs in national parliaments with directly elected representatives in the European Parliament. What has been achieved in the negotiations and has been given the EU's consent that if the date of our accession is 6 months before regular elections then the current observers could become temporary full-fledged representatives. We enter here a year earlier and I think it's good for a democratic culture to get used to European elections that we have people with a directly elected mandate and the legitimacy of Croatian voters for the first 12 months. Secondly, when you talk about it, whether Croatian future members of the European Parliament will represent or not Croatian interests. Well, I think that as representatives in the Croatian Parliament, we must give our trust to those who will assume this duty. The fact that it belongs to different political groups is not an obstacle but rather an additional obligation because others are doing so, and these issues that you mentioned are the financial framework. The negotiations only agreed on the current financial framework, all of these are the negotiations that are currently under way, and that is why I also mentioned the Law on the Cooperation of the Government and the Parliament on European Affairs, that we might have discussed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32617	The replica matches my colleague Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32618	In connection with the first problem, yes or not now, it relates to what counterpart Vinkovic said. If we had already had those elections, then we should have thought about whether they really have to go to the burden of only Croatian citizens or whether they could go partly to the burden and be covered by the EU budget. When you talk about democratic culture, I agree but that we are learning to vote for the EU parliament. Our citizens know how to vote for any level from the councils of local committees to the EU parliament. But to practice learning a democratic culture that will cost us fat and those citizens who are already so impoverished in the Croatian state, so I'm not sure it's an excuse that Croatian citizens will find some great approval and understanding. The second thing you said is you are convinced that citizens will choose representatives who will represent Croatian national interests. However, to encourage the experience of taking care of Croatian national interests in the Croatian Parliament and of the recently ruling and from now on, we also have the right to be concerned that we and all Croatian citizens will only then defend Croatian national interests in Strasbourg in Brussels or Luxembourg, we have the right to doubt it. Is it also here in the Croatian Parliament many times about Croatian national interests it is as if I do not know which country, not our citizens and our country. And when it comes to the end of the third thing you said about what was agreed in the multiannual financial framework, it is true, I know it is for the period from 2007 to 2013, but membership is also determined from 2007 to 2013. If she has reduced the funds that we will receive in the new framework, why were there no talks and the level of membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32619	Thank you. Replica also stands up and honours the representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32620	Thank you. My colleague Buric, despite all your doubts, I am convinced that Croatian parliamentarians in the EU will, when necessary and when national interests are the subject of the talks, certainly stand behind national interests. I'm convinced it's actually happening here. If I thought it wasn't happening in Parliament, I'd turn around now and go home. I would not like to sit in Parliament where I do not think the interests of Croatian citizens are represented. The fact that I see them differently from you or different from my colleague Plenkovic or different from the minister is a matter of politics and it is a matter of sorting into political groups in the EU parliament. But no political group will be able to force me like no party or party here can force me to vote something that does not agree with my conscience and with the interests of the Croatian state in my opinion. Of course, that opinion doesn't have to be the opinion of the current minister, and I don't accept the situation of getting amendments to our revolution painted in different colors, and then I need to lobby for those colors that are indicated there. And with some of these amendments, I agree and I think that in the Croatian national interest, the system of confiscation of illegally acquired property in Croatia should be established and improved. I think it's a good amendment to the resolution and I'm there to vote in favour of that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32621	The replica matches the esteemed Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32622	Dear counterpart Vuljanic, there may be those in the EU Parliament who will represent the Croatian national interests but they are, I disagree with you that everyone will do so, I do not agree and doubt it, and I do not believe it, will respect the party's discipline, will represent those who do so here and in the Croatian Parliament, who do not vote in the debates and say they have one opinion, and then when Friday's vote comes at 12:00, they raise their hands the way party leaders tell them to do. Therefore, we have had countless opportunities to see it here in the Croatian Parliament as it seems. Yes, you could have stood up and left here if you said that there was no concern of Croatian national interests here and when it came to the sale of national wealth. So are you going to go out when he comes to the debate or are we going to stand up to it when it comes to the sale and the rest of the national wealth? So when it comes to the Homeland War and the persecution of Croatian defenders, generals, etc., do you want to talk about tax aggression and tax terror on Croatian citizens? No one left the assembly just because I said I'm not going back to the Parliament at all, but maybe they'll take a break and come back again. When it comes to our suspicion that there will be an even greater respect for party discipline in Strasbourg, but unfortunately not only for our own not only what those from the SDP or HDZ or from any other party will listen to, they will have to listen to what the political group in the EU says. It's true and it doesn't need to fool people, it will be. And we'll get the information when it's done, served. We had to, we raised our voice against but we were outvoted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32623	And the last replica, esteemed colleague Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32624	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Buric, you have expressed your suspicion and even fear that Croatian citizens will choose the wrong representatives who will not defend Croatian interests in Strasbourg and Brussels. Don't be afraid. We may not always agree with the election results, but we must respect the voter's will. And I am convinced that they will choose and recognise those who will defend Croatian interests in Brussels and Strasbourg and Europe. Of course we have experience like you said, we have different experiences. We have experience in other Central European countries that have joined the EU before us and have mostly profited when they entered those institutions and those decision-making mechanisms and could affect it. When you have your representatives in the largest groups currently in the European Parliament, it is the European People's Party. And when you can influence what the position of the European People's Party will be, then you can also come to a decision in the European Parliament. Unfortunately, those who are independent in the sea of over 700 euros cannot achieve anything. That is an objective problem, and that is why it was better for those countries where they had strong clubs on a national basis within their political groups. For example, you have within the European People's Party a German club of MEPs. And so, of course, they also cooperate with Germans who are in other clubs. But manage to push through, agree and that the largest political groups represent those interests that are in line with Croatian national interests not only for what the Republic of Croatia is concerned. We will also be able to discuss, for example, resolutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina That's what we'll do if the biggest political groups represent our interests if we're there. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32625	The replica matches my colleague Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32626	Dear colleague, the Croatian citizens will choose exactly. Whether they choose right or wrong we'll just see. We show no fear, not fear. We want representatives representing Croatia's national interests, Croatia in the European Parliament to represent national interests differently than many represent in the Croatian Parliament. If they represented Croatian national interests here, then our fear is justified how it will only be when they leave Croatia. Because why? Well, history teaches us, history but our practice here from the Croatian Parliament to talk in discussions, and it's quite different. And once he catches you in the machinery of the group you're going to bow down to, no matter what you do, you won't say anything about it. You may be discussing it by committees, but when it comes to the European Parliament. The European Parliament has 3 fundamental duties. It is legislative, it has the budget and control of the European Commission. Right? Now, for example, just one of these budget commitments. Why did the Croatian Parliament not get at least information, not from the newspaper that it found out what the multiannual financial framework was like in relation to the Republic of Croatia, and we had observers there. But it was the government of the Republic of Croatia's duty to inform us. And then cooperation. You're talking about cooperation. I'd like it to be co-operation, more than anything I'd like our 12 deputies to be one there, but I'm afraid it won't be. Well, here you are. You were attacked while lobbying for Croatia. They said they are looking against the interest of the Republic of Croatia. I don't believe you've been moaning. I believe you spoke in favour of the Republic of Croatia, And you couldn't agree on it either, and how there would then be cooperation on more important matters. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32627	Lastly, on behalf of the promoter, Minister of Management Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32628	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would support what Mr Stier said in response to the vote in favour of these major clubs in the European Parliament, since the Socialists are also a big club. But good. So, I would refer to three things today from exposure. It's one thing about the electoral system. So if Croatia were divided into multiple constituencies then if we had 13 we would have the next time and 11, so that would be one of 6 and one of 5. The electoral threshold is no longer 5%, but 15 or 20, and then it is questionable how much this would be in line with these national threshold provisions of 5%. Of course, parties who think that their different electoral division would, therefore, repair the result in several electoral units when they put on paper will see that it is not because as soon as the threshold is increased, it remains the same number of votes that should be passed to get the MPs. Maybe something smaller because of a larger number of dissent voices, but usually not too much. Second. As far as this debate is concerned, it was largely reduced to supporting technical amendments to the laws for which I thank and for criticising these date definitions, either as regards the date of the draft law or as regards the date of the election. To paraphrase a statement from 2011 June is not a date, nor is it a April date. The election date will therefore be determined by the President of the Republic. We make these technical changes easier for him, so making a decision if it goes in the direction to be held together with the local elections, and if I talk about the first and second rounds then in the spirit of it it would be more logical to keep up with the first round because since the second round is not being held in all units of local self-government, then it would be questionable that this is the main motive and this is about the cost of the election. And secondly, there are different calculations about what the second round of elections will be like. Because in 2009 it proved that where the mayor's election was for the mayor and for the mayor or only for the mayor's exit was far greater than where the mayor was elected in the first round, and the elections were only for the mayor. Therefore, there would then be a calculus that is more appropriate, for example, if in a big city the mayor who chooses from one party in the first round, because then the voters of the party would not go out on the second round. As far as this is concerned, the date will be decided by the President of the Republic and I don't think there will be any major opposition so that we can then focus on new election classic topics, which is why voters vote for one party or another. So it is possible that local elections vote for one party and European elections on the same day for the other party. Here is a colleague from Osijek who will certainly remember the elections for the City Council held in 2007 along with parliamentary elections where there was a huge proportion in the number of votes of parties in parliamentary and local elections. Therefore, citizens are able to distinguish both types of choices and types of candidates, they can assess whether a candidate is more suitable for one or another function, and I think this time too, the citizens will vote on those they think deserve to be held accountable for whom they are elected. Although it's a question of whether we'd go to the election to choose just that. So it is certain that a large number of citizens in the European elections would not go out, and a few fewer citizens would go to European elections and not go to locals. I think it's a small number of citizens. As for the power and calling of the government, therefore, technical changes are indeed something that is not questionable and that is relatively fast and has been made and proposed and have not been made any major remarks. As far as the government's role in European elections is concerned, it is in fact minor because the election is called by the president of the state and implemented by the DIP. The government's task, or members of the government, is the minister of justice to appoint polling stations in prisons and defence ministers in military and foreign affairs ministers in diplomatic and consular representations and the Ministry of Administration to make elections lists. Therefore, the role of the government as an institution is indeed technical. The role of the parties participating in the government is important, but as a party rather than a government as an institution. Therefore, by these technical amendments and by the Croatian Parliament, if it adopts them, it has ensured the conditions for all institutions to be able to hold elections in a manner where political parties agree in consultation with the President of the Republic, of course most political parties, and we want the President of the Republic not to be in a position to arbitration between the wishes of the parties, and therefore, in particular, if the largest number of parties or the largest parties agree on it, then I think that there is also a small space for the president, i.e. i.e. that there is almost none. In the same way, the debate was also on the date of the 2011 parliamentary elections. Therefore, the ruling coalition proposed a date on December 4th, the opposition agreed and there was no further dispute over when it would be called. There was a maneuver plus, minus one or two weeks. So, of course, I hold everything in a way that prepares both for local and European elections. The parties can calculate when they respond more date, it's legitimate in some way calculations, but then that's how it should be presented. So in that sense, if this debate continues, I believe there will be enough opportunity to present itself. Here, I call on MPs to accept the amendment to the law, and the government will show itself about amendments until the vote and then decide on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32629	They're following the replicas. First, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32630	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, when I was talking about the possibility that maybe there could have been more electoral units, I didn't say it was necessary that there should have been more electoral units. We passed that law 3 years ago in 2010. But I'm saying that this is another example, we are now passing this law by emergency procedure without first reading and second reading. We could also discuss whether the solution to an election unit is truly best? That could have been discussed. And maybe we'd all agree that just because of the 5% it's one constituency. But we had time to discuss this law not in an emergency procedure but in a regular procedure because we knew long ago that on July 1st of this year we should go in, therefore enter full EU membership. And that's why I'm speaking by citing the three conditions of the Council's provision in 2002, where it is said that electoral units and electoral areas are determined by each country on their own. And I'm just pointing out that this is another example of how very often we are, most often brought before the final act. We are being served with one possible solution, and we here can practically just discuss it, give an amendment, propose or not. It'd be a better discussion and maybe it wouldn't be five, I'm not saying it would be five, maybe it would be two and maybe there would be one constituency left. But as you've made a decision not to be three statistical regions but two, without informing anyone of this, neither has the debate been held. The problem is not having a discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32631	Minister Bauk responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32632	So, as far as the electoral system is concerned, it was discussed twice in the previous Parliament's meeting. Once in 2008, it was the first reading of the law, and then it was two years until the second reading, and it was technically adopted in an emergency procedure in July 2010, but it was discussed in the Croatian Parliament twice, given the size, therefore, of the number of elected MPs, to the size of the electoral unit, i.e. the size of the state, i.e. I think that the Government correctly proposed it. I mean, there were no major objections at the time. What the newspaper is are open lists, therefore half-open, is true. There are two things that could have been discussed, one is whether to vote only for one candidate on the list or for more. And it's still a legitimate debate. I am also prone to a solution which I also think is correct to vote for one candidate because then that candidate can in his narrow electoral unit, i.e. in his region and county, therefore be profiled as a candidate and get some votes in his name, but get votes for himself without entering a political party in other parts. If it's national, they'll get it in other parts. And the third question is the question, therefore, of the threshold for preferential votes, it has been put 10% So there, it will be reduced in a certain way by the influence of preferential votes on Parliament's composition, but I think to a reasonable extent, so it is only possible to define that it is 10% of the total number of preferred votes, not the total number of lists, but we will see this after these elections. If there is a big difference, it can be discussed for the next elections, as can be discussed with which we will connect those elections in 2014 to increase the date. Personally, I'd like to say there to be a referendum on the merger of some counties but since then.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32633	And the replica will now be presented by a respected counterpart, Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32634	Thank you, Vice President. Here's the minister I'd refer to three aspects of your final presentation. The first is about the urgency or speed of adoption, yet you must admit that this was on Thursday at the government, Friday's committees, today we've been sitting this whole week because, although we've had an announcement that we're not going to be in session. This could have been a little more peaceful, a little bit sooner. We'd have nine other observers here at the end of the line who'd have something to say about this subject. And if we had discussed it in two readings, maybe a few months earlier I think that in the substance of technical, changing this law wouldn't have made much difference. Secondly, when you talk about information and the role of government, i.e. The role of the state I do not agree with you when you state that the role of the Government is minor in this election. By the start of the election campaign, the Croatian government, of course, and the DIP has an objective role of creating assumptions for quality held elections and that is what we have told you that interpretation, which the European Parliament, what elections, what voting system is the government's task, is part of a communication strategy, perhaps not necessarily the Ministry of Administration that you are headed by, and you are looking at more of these legal provisions from the organisational aspect, but from the point of view of communication it is certainly an objective task of the government. And finally, listening to you about the term and date of the election, I have the impression that, as you said, the maintenance would be together with the first round in the spirit of this debate, that you were in some way, so here's how the government's representative agreed to kill the suggestions of the opposition and retrieved from the attitude that could be heard last week. I have to admit that this is how I've experienced your exposure, I don't know if you're okay with it, but if it's so nice that you've changed your mind and chosen in further talks with the president only a rational solution, which is May 19th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32635	The reply to the replica of Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32636	When I was talking about the role of the government I think it could be concluded, I was talking about this formal role. So, certainly yes, is now whether the Government or more State Election Commission I here think that the DIP should participate more in this, because we who are in the Government are party-determined to go educate voters. I would always like to educate voters by voting for the party they belong to, and here I think it would be in the spirit, so some kind of political system that if we already have a professional body that is constantly, that it is the State Election Commission to take over this role of education and I think it is written in their law, I have now looked at, so that they give opinions on the upgrade and improvement of the electoral system and of course of this kind of education. And that would, therefore, agree that the government will also contribute to that, regardless of which ministry, but I think that the members of the government and the prominent party members will participate in the campaign in this part, so campaigning politically to explain to voters why they should give us confidence, not to anyone else. But as far as the date is concerned, I'd like to have a choice on a regular basis, so we don't have to have these extraordinary choices. And if we have to have them already, then somewhere in October 2012 I already put out the idea that, together with local elections and with members, some members of other parties, it is debated. They were different opinions, but most of them were in favour. The reason that there was a calculation with dates was not only within the political, but also externally political now not to convince why and how. Thus, it was also calculated with dates of ratification in other countries and questions whether it is politically wise or whether it is diplomatic, or whether the elections will be called before the last ratifications arrive, and before it is certain that it will be the last ratification. And that may have been the reason why, at one point, it wasn't so tight about dates anymore, about these dates.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32637	Time. Third replica, colleague Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32638	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is the minister, I think it is good that you have respected the arguments of the opposition, that elections for the European Parliament will be on 19 May, together with local elections. You have made one small distinction, but it is important in answer to the question, that is to say, to the intervention of your colleague Plenkovic that it is your personal opinion now, it is now a little unclear whether it is just your personal opinion or whether you spoke on behalf of the Government. In any case, it would be really good if, not only on your own behalf, but also how the government's representative respected all these arguments once again and that the elections were organised on 19 May.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32639	And this replica corresponds to Minister Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32640	My personal position there is indeed a little less selective, as well as the government's position is also less important. Because the government has no role in it, they have the role of the political party. The SDP's stance is very important, I think in that case both the stance and other parties of the ruling coalition and the HDZ stance as the strongest opposition parties. And in the end, when we face a high court of honor, the citizens will be decided by the President of the Republic, and I believe there are now enough elements to decide on the basis of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32641	And the last replica of Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32642	Oh, this is more Mr. Minister and a message to the President of the Republic, Ivo, call the election 19.5. In this way you will save local self-government, reduce the costs of local self-government for local elections, regardless of the bad law, regardless of what we will have 4 times the election or 8 times in office because I do not believe that the one directly elected will agree with, if there is no majority in the city council. And we all hope that here in the Croatian Parliament we will discuss important European topics for Croatian national interests, that SDP will not accuse, for example, Stier of muddling Croatia, of gossiping about the government, etc. Or that the HDZ will not charge Mondekara and I hope that the President of the European Parliament and me and Buric will give the right to replication and will not act as Stazic in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32643	Replication response, Minister Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32644	Mr Vinkovic, first of all, I commend your position to save the text message you sent to the President of the Republic and to direct it through the presentation in the Croatian Parliament is in the spirit of saving. Also if you read this amendment I think it is, the city budget will cut costs by 16.6% so much it will cut the county by 16.6% and the state will decrease by 66.6% because elections are held at different times and I believe your successor at the mayor's place will be able to appreciate that kind of savings. Thank you. [[Intruder Vinkovic: No heir.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32645	Discuss the text, take care of your colleague Vinkovic that you are in the Croatian Parliament. This is still a place where you don't get used to, we're not on the road. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now I'm advertising a break. We'll continue at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32646	Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on election of representatives from the Republic of Croatia to the European Parliament, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 283. The debate on the final bill is over. The amendments have been filed, I have a special table, please, the respected Deputy Minister Zoran Piculjano to be seen about the amendments. Amendment No. 1. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32647	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32648	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No. 2. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32649	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32650	Thank you very much. It also becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 3rd of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32651	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32652	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 4th of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32653	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32654	It also becomes an integral part of the final bill. And Amendment No. 5. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32655	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32656	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. Six. SDP and HNS representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32657	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32658	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. Seven. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32659	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32660	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 8. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32661	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32662	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. Nine. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32663	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32664	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. The amendment submitted by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers – The Work Party proposed to add a new Article 37 has not been submitted in accordance with Article 163(3). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament will not be decided on. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements has already been processed. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law, but before that, in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of this law require a half-way majority of the total number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 115 votes to pass the Law amending and supplementing the Law on election of representatives from the Republic of Croatia to the European Parliament in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32665	Our colleagues and colleagues continue with - Proposal for a Migration Policy of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2013. – 2015 The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the proposal in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. I welcome Rank Ostojic, Minister of the Interior, on behalf of the promoter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32666	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear fellow Members of Parliament and MPs. You have before you a draft new migration policy relating to the period 2013-2015. This is the first document to direct national migration policy. After the migration policy of the Republic of Croatia since 2007-2008. The objective of this migration policy was for migration issues to be systematically but effectively and in line with the EU policy in which 1.7. Croatia's coming in. Migration policies should also enable measures of activity, and 17 measures of activity primarily related to changes and the addition of the legal framework related to the area of migration are planned. From that time on, they may point out that an amendment to the law on Croatian citizenship has been implemented, the obligations of Croatian citizens to leave the country for a period of more than one year have been prescribed. The work of diplomatic missions, consular offices of the MUP and other state bodies in the issue of visas, the compliance of the Asylum Act and the Law on Foreigners with the EU amendments and the adaptation of the contract for the surrender and acceptance of persons who are illegally staying in the territory of the State or of contracts for the operation of the mission has been coordinated. In accordance with the European standard form of this Treaty and the most important measures which have not been fully implemented or which, in view of their importance, should be carried out in continuity, the development of a full analysis of the labour market situation or the multi-annual movement of offers and demand for certain interests with the proposal for appropriate measures to meet the need for labour force and measures aimed at preventing discriminatory procedures and behaviour towards immigrants in economic, social and cultural life ensure a right to equal status in relation to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with a view to achieving citizenship. Following the period for which the previous migration policy was adopted, further amendments to the legislation of the Republic of Croatia were made to the area of migration through the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum 2010, the Law on Foreigners 2011, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, as well as in 2011. The purpose to achieve the proposed migration policy is to ensure that migration movements to the Republic of Croatia are in favour of economic, social development, state and society. The objective of that migration policy is that all state bodies, like all other participants, act in a timely and coordinated manner to find... responds to the positive and negative effects of migration movements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This migration policy is a general political document containing a framework for the participation of participants in the implementation of certain measures. The measures provided for relate to the following areas: visa policy and work is under way to further develop Croatia's visa information system, migration policy in relation to visa policy points out as the main purpose and ultimate objective of Croatian visa policy as fully consistent with the EU visa policy, and a visa policy is implemented through the implementation of the EU acquis in the national legislation of the Republic of Croatia implementing and monitoring planned plans. On the status issues of foreigners, provisions on regulating the residence and work of foreigners have been drafted. It is still necessary to access the creation of biometric identity cards for foreigners containing all the prescribed protective elements. Then standards are incorporated to protect the rights of foreigners on a regular stay and in work or at work in the Republic of Croatia. Special protection is intended for endangered categories of persons who do not have to meet the regular conditions of temporary stay approval other than those relating to the safety aspect of the stay of foreigners. It is the victims of human trafficking, abandoned minors who have lost parental protection, custody or escorts or have become victims of organised crime, foreigners who have been illegally employed and used their work. Protection through the Institute of Temporary Stay for justifiable reasons of humanitarian nature which is granted to persons who for various reasons are also extended to the difficult social status of foreigners who can be granted permanent stay even though they do not meet the prescribed conditions for the approval of permanent residence, which are refugees, persons who have residence on 8.10.1991, i.e. who had residence on 8.10.1991. Croatian citizenship has changed the conditions for regular acquisition of Croatian citizenship by naturalisation, it takes 8 years compared to the previous 5 years, the term of members of the Croatian people is defined, and for emigrants a generational restriction on the regulation of the 3rd degree of kinship with the original Croatian emigrant. The conditions for checking the knowledge of Croatian language and letters, the culture of social order, have been made easier to acquire Croatian citizenship for persons who had their residence in the Republic of Croatia on 8.10.1991 and who have been granted permanent stay and have not acquired Croatian citizenship until today. In the area of asylum, the legal framework is fully in line with the EU acquis. As regards integration policy, given that this problem can only be addressed through a cross-resor approach, migration policy provides for the establishment of an inter-resociative body which, with a high level of appointment of representatives, will guarantee appropriate shifts in this problem, and the effectiveness of this body will be achieved by the appointment of smaller working groups composed of experts to act at the operational level. In the case of irregular migration, which will be particularly intensified after EU accession. 4 basic types of violations committed by foreigners, and there are illegal crossings of the state border, illegal stay, illegal work and lack of travel documents. And this is exactly the state of irregular migration in this part of Europe that has been directly affected by war and wartime events in Central Asia, Iraq and Afghanistan and conflicts in the countries of North Africa, Libya, Tunisia and Egypt. The reason for the sharp rise in irregular migration should also be looked at in the problems facing migration management systems in Turkey and Greece. About 3 million Croats live in the Croatian emigration according to the foreign and European ministry's estimates of emigration. The widespread Croatian emigration is therefore a great wealth and a kind of natural reservoir of people interested in a possible return. The mission of this migration policy is to make it easier to return to all interested Croatian emigrants. It should also be stressed that by adopting a migration policy, one of the 10 commitments that the Republic of Croatia must fulfil by the end of the EU monitoring process, this text has been submitted to the European Commission and in the text of the document it is in line with EU remarks. I would also take advantage of this opening part and the opportunity to, of course, listen to what was on the committees and what parliamentary representatives pointed out as specific questions, the question that the question of women victims of Trefikin's opinion should be covered only that the question of victims of Trefiking's women is generally particularly elaborated in a strategic document dealing exclusively with human trafficking, and then there is no need to duplicate again in this document dealing with primarily migration issues. I must say that Croatia also has a National Committee for the Prevention of Human Trading as well as its operational team, and in order to implement the National Plan for the Prevention of Human Trade has been adopted for the period from 2012 to 2015. On the issue of how migration policy will affect day-to-day migrants both towards EU countries, in particular Italy and those living in countries outside the EU, BiH and other countries in the environment. I must say that daily migrations are primarily an economic issue given their everyday character of persons leaving for the purpose of working or processing their land and then returning to the country of origin. This type of migration cannot be solved through the migration strategy itself. What is important but we have cited two measures that are absolutely related to this, which is in point 2 of point 3 of the update of the labour market analysis with a proposal for appropriate measures for satisfactory labour needs. The measure will be carried out on a continuous basis. And two, four. Making proposals for an annual quota for the employment of foreigners and the employment potential of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, those measures will, in accordance with the needs, determine the quotas for the recruitment of foreigners, so that, in the event of a need, the employment of day-to-day migrants can be regulated. On the issue of change in the visa regime, especially with regard to the citizens of the Russian Federation and Turkey, I must point out that Chapter 1 of the visa policy of the migration policy includes preparations for the full harmonisation of the Croatian visa system with that of the EU, including the introduction of visas for citizens of Turkey and the Russian Federation. Croatia plans to introduce a visa regime for Turkish citizens from 1 April 2013. A treaty was signed between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the mutual travel of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and citizens of the Russian Federation was signed in Moscow on 31.3.2013, thereby equating the Croatian visa system to the citizens of the Russian Federation with the EU visa system. Technical preparations are under way for the introduction of the visa regime, insurance of the premises of officials and the like. On changes or impact testing and the needs for amendments to Article 11i 16. Law on Croatian citizenship. The law stipulates the acquisition of Croatian citizenship in the birth of members of Croatian people who live abroad, and Article 11 of the acquisition of Croatian citizenship of emigrants, its descendants and spouses. It can be estimated that more than 800,000 people have acquired Croatian citizenship on this legal basis. The main people of the Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia have already acquired Croatian citizenship during the 1990s. As the Republic of Croatia approaches EU accession with requirements, an increasing number of people whose membership to the Croatian people is questionable are emerging. The legal application has seen numerous cases of abuse of rights and illegal treatment of foreign citizens from counterfeiting of documents, false representation of a national plea for the purpose of obtaining Croatian citizenship under favourable conditions and facilitating access to other rights. It should be stressed that the basis... of the legal basis for Croatian citizenship is obtained under extremely favourable conditions without asking for layoffs from so far's citizenship or the setting of living conditions in the Republic of Croatia. The question of the real connection of persons who acquire Croatian citizenship is raised on the basis of this legal basis. With regard to persons with dual citizenship and the question of the eager effect of these standards on the protection of Croatian people abroad and the planned return of emigrants to the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the immigration policy plans to analyse the impact of these provisions of the Law on Croatian Citizenship as many persons have acquired Croatian citizenship, what is their connection with the Republic of Croatia, whether the desired effects of these provisions have been achieved, to analyse European legislation with a similar legal tradition that provides the possibility of privileged acquisition of citizenship or members of their own people or emigrants. As for the name of the document for the end, why it is called migration policy, and that the European Commission allegedly sought a strategy. In the process of drawing up this document, I must say that the European Commission has had an opinion on the very text of the migration policy proposal, which did not have any objections to the name of the documents, and here it is very practical to say that it is a three-year period, and the strategies would include a longer period of time. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32667	Thank you, Minister. We also have a replica of your exposure. Dinko Buric, here's your colleague Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32668	Well, thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, this bill of law has nothing to object to. So that's something that this proposal so migration policy is something that's good. And on page 5, there is a sentence that specifically emphasises that one of the biggest problems is the integration of foreigners into Croatian society. However, what should not be avoided in this proposal for migration policy, but also emphasized that there is not only immigration but immigration. You've only partly noted that. I must say that we are concerned that on the one hand it is being created that you have listed here a political framework for the immigration and integration of foreigners into Croatian society. But the reason for our concern is that this government's policy also creates an economic framework for eviction and we are afraid of disintegration of Croatian society, given the growing number of Croatian citizens, especially young people who are pressured by the burden of all economic crises forced to leave, so to emigrate outside Croatia. And it is true that our immigration can be and is the wealth of Croatia. But an increasing number of those who increase the number of Croats outside Croatia because they are forced to emigrate is not a reason for satisfaction, but for concern. Therefore, I think that more attention should be paid to this document, so we should address the migration policy proposal to this other side because it is a two-sided process.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32669	Thank you. Do they want ministers? And later, okay. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. We're going to a club debate. Sonja König and Ivica Mandic will debate on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32670	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Minister. Thousands and thousands of passengers on their way to New York City, thousands and thousands of passengers including our Croats, on their way to the immigration office, on their way to Ellis Island Airport, saw a statue of freedom as a symbol that may have marked their new life. At his chair, they could read the following verses: "Give me your tired and poor, your oppressed masses who yearn to breathe freely, send me those homeless and the victims." The author of these lyrics otherwise famous poet Emma Lazarus did not write to me send me your professors of biology and chemistry, send me your Doctors of Science preferably up to 30 years old and white skin, did not write to me send me happy and successful. And that's why this song around the world is somehow perceived as an anthem of humanity. And America, on whose front door these verses are written and carved, is considered the most profitable land of immigrants in all respects. People, as we know, migrate for different reasons -- economic, political, social, and even those of love. And if a country and someone's citizens should understand and accept those who want to find happiness and success elsewhere or those who are forced to live outside their homeland because of persecution or because of some accident, it is Croatia. Because we have these two experiences. So, unfortunately, the experience of people who left their homes by saving their lives, but also the experiences of people who went to what they absolutely had the right to do and should be entitled to Germany, Argentina, Chile, Australia, who knows where not to earn more, feed their family or simply find a better life for themselves. And the whole European idea of freedom of movement of people comes from that right, but it's all about the quality of a country's functioning. It is hardly the one who is forced to leave his country in a situation that threatens him with a worse situation than the one he lives in. The one or the one who wants to make more money will go to the one country where, of course, there is a better chance. For decades, we have been discussing migration from the corners of those who leave our country for various reasons. But the time has come and perhaps we are a little late as a country to start thinking about ourselves in another context and to see ourselves in another context as a country where people come in because they believe that they will live better in it. This is a question that we must take into account from the position of demographic trends, from the position of development policy. Currently, no European country has a fertility that would ensure a simple reproduction of the population. If the processes of demographic aging and slow economic growth of migrants are taken into account, it has proved to be something and a way to actually slow down these trends. The results of demographic projections in Croatia also unfortunately show that the depopulation of the population of Croatia will continue over the next 30 years and the impact of migration can be important for future demographic processes. They cannot significantly influence the direction of demographic processes or solve a demographic picture in the short term, but they can partially mitigate already existing negative trends. If we want good for ourselves, greater prosperity and faster social development, we need to create conditions in which foreigners will want to come to us. This means that, with social and housing policy, we must actively seek to create a multicultural atmosphere. That would make us in our opinion at HNS more economically and culturally rich. If we're not able to do it or we don't want to do it, then we're blocking our own social development. Because if we're not as successful as the country, then emigration will bypass us. But if we are successful, and that is our goal, if we are successful economically and from the point of view of the functioning of the institutions, from the point of view of human rights, from the point of view of the quality of life, then we will also become interesting to people looking for work or seeking salvation from some kind of danger that threatens them in countries where they come from. Moreover, the issue of immigration is affected by the situation in our wider neighbourhood as we know it, our geostrategic position and fact, as the minister has already said, that we are soon becoming a member of the EU, which I am sure will positively assess this monitoring period with which this migration policy is part. The very areas that this migration policy covers say something about themselves, which is I think the minister didn't mention everything, so if you don't mind, visa policy, foreign status issues, Croatian citizenship, shelter for asylum seekers, integration policy, irregular migration and Croatian emigration. These areas in their majority regulate formal and legal procedures for different categories of people who move and come to Croatia on a permanent or temporary basis, and if anything is in accordance with European rules, then it is a visa regime. Because in some cases where Croatia has so far had visa waivers for non-EU members it is no longer possible, this will no longer be possible. It's actually an interesting situation, on the one hand we're asked to protect human rights, and on the other hand a stricter immigration policy. This kind of liberal paradox is now actually being dealt with by different liberal theorists around the world, but we're going to do it another time. So, by harmonising our situation with the European on the one hand, of course, we seek higher democratic standards and greater protection of human rights while introducing a stricter immigration policy, stricter control over asylum seekers within Croatia. As for asylum in Croatia by 2010, we actually have a small number of asylum seekers, somewhere between 100 and 200 asylum seekers per year, but in the last two years there has been a significant increase in Croatia. For example, in 2012, we recorded just over 1100 asylum seekers, and in 2011, the number was about 800. Of course, if we compare that number to the old EU members, then the number is very modest, but for Croatia, this increase of several hundred becomes very, very significant. As regards the number of approved protections after 2006, when actually the first asylum in Croatia was granted to a young woman from Sudan because of the threat of genital mutilation by the end of 2012, we are talking about some 100 approved asylum protections. Most asylum seekers by 2010 were from countries of the region, so Kosovo, Serbia, BiH and so on, and in the last three years the trend has changed and is increasingly asylum seekers originating in Afghanistan, Sudan, the Maghreb countries. So the demographic image of the asylum seeker is changing. But according to the report of asylum seekers, there is no change in the attitude of those who come in direct contact with asylum seekers. They say that there is a lack of recognition and non-acceptation of the intention of seeking asylum that there are officials who have negative attitudes towards foreigners and who do not hear them, who do not want to hear them, who are key to limiting or granting access. They, in our opinion, and others involved in these processes need proper education, and this migration policy, too, and provides for additional training because xenophobia and racism in our society, unfortunately, exist. And to prevent them, it is not enough just to establish a repressive legal framework but also to implement a proactive policy through the media, through public campaigns and through us politicians and politicians. Because harmonising laws, harmonising statistics, establishing institutions isn't easy, but it's still easier part of the job, at least for us. What is a more demanding part of the job and for Croatian society is a challenge to prepare and open a society to live in some new circumstances, to appreciate differences, to take advantage of them as a positive opportunity to open a society which then means a more comfortable and decent life for everyone, rather than a threat to close. The basis of migration policy for us in the CNS should be respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the main objective of integration of those who wish to share our country's fate with us. It seems to us that this proposed migration policy and the inclusion of all of this can be achieved and that is why we will support the proposal, and will be further explained by my friend and fellow esteemed representative, Mr Ivica Mandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32671	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Here is colleague Sonja touched all of the most important things related to the proposed migration policy of the Republic of Croatia for 2013-2015. I would say that this is a very important policy although it is for a short time, but I believe that in these guidelines for these 2 years, Croatia should show a clear intention, which also points to what migration policy and by what standards. What is also important to say about this is that this migration policy must primarily be implemented according to the principles of freedom of movement, solidarity and humanity. What I would particularly like to emphasise is the issues of demographic status in the Republic of Croatia, for which migration policy is also of paramount importance for the future of Croatia as well. The data on the last census of the population of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 says that the negative trend in population, that we have a continued trend in population decline, that for 2011, it was minus 9 822 inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia, and that if we look at it in the last 10 years it's moving from 12, 13,000, 11, mainly it's still in a terrible decline and it's one trend that's not good. In addition to this trend where living children were born in the Republic of 2011 at 411 970, the number of deaths 51 019, means that we have a negative natural growth of -9822. What is also alarming is that with this data related to the number, the number of residents who are reduced year by year that the immigration balance in the Republic of Croatia is also negative. That he was 4165 people for 2011 moved more from Croatia than they had moved to Croatia. This again if we look at the development of the region that from those undeveloped spaces that the largest number in Sisak-Moslavina County is over a thousand, Vukovar-Srijemska 461, Sibenik-Kninska 770. Most of this is all the information that speaks for one warning and that this policy, which we are bringing to the guideline now, must be a guideline to facilitate the maximum conditions for the return of Croatian emigration because it will give one guarantee for survival. I say at a time when the Republic of Croatia has over 372,000 unemployed. That's the factor that further points to these trends that will certainly still be negative in front of us. What is also worrying, and what is the basis of this migration policy, we need to know that the average population of the Republic of Croatia is 41 years and 7 months, which is also warning because it says that as most European countries grow older every year and means less and less active population that should enable that social and protection of those people who retire. Also, one very indicative data that relates to the number of family members, in 2001, in the Republic of Croatia lived by family of 3 members, and in 2011. 2, 79. All this data suggests that the Republic of Croatia, this time ahead of it, is that these demographic indicators strongly suggest that migration policies or migration policies not for this short period but for this long period should be made as easy as possible, with respect for all those standards stated by Sonja's colleague in her presentation. What you would also say is that, in the end, and how the club also supports this report, I would say that migration policy is in line with the EU's legal arrangement and acquis and where, which have its place in 22 EU legal acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32672	Thank you, too. Before we go to the replicas, a colleague of Buric at the club's presentation you have the possibility of only one replica regardless of how much he debated on behalf of the club. Well, here's the first line on, colleague Đurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32673	Here's Agent König I wanted to point out to you, you've set up a good one, in my opinion, a good diagnosis of the situation. And I wanted to actually point out a clear divide between the policy that you represent and the policy that we believe in, about how to solve this problem. But then, in his presentation, MP Mandic actually put out another policy that is much closer to me, and now I don't know exactly what your policy is. Is your policy opening borders or is it your policy to invite Croats back to Croatia? Because you've put out two rather perverse ones, so I actually wanted to make more reference to your exposure, and that's one clear segment actually between our worldview and our political ideas. So, you raised the tendency to solve the problem of demographic Croatia, which is clear in the way your president, your former party, has been saying that you are actually going to import people from some other countries to the Republic of Croatia in the coming years, or to bring people from other countries. We believe, and it is our political position and we believe that the Croatian people have resources and that in fact the Republic of Croatia needs to create conditions for the return of Croats from emigration and from other countries and their descendants, then that's what your colleague Mandic was saying, now I don't know what your position is. And one more thing, when you were talking about xenophobia and racism, about how these are phenomena that are very present in Croatian society. I think that these are extreme phenomena that happen there in Croatian society, as they happen in every society, that both xenophobia and racism are not part of Croatian society and that they only happen as marginal excessive phenomena as they do in Germany and the United States, but that we do not have any organised forms of xenophobia and racism in Croatia and that we do not need to speak to ourselves yet what is not in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32674	Thank you. A colleague named Mandic will respond to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32675	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Djurovic, however, there is no difference between the presentation of counterpart Sonja and mine. She spoke first of all about moving a stranger in and by what rules. So respect for freedom, all human rights, humanity, and that's what I'm talking about. I was talking about the second segment of why migration policy is needed and why we have to bring it, precisely because of this situation in which we are as a society. I don't see why they'd tell the difference between our ancestors who were leaving in the early 19th century or in the early 20th century going to America and other overseas countries. it was essentially purely economic or social migration for a better life. We also allow people who do not leave their countries to leave some great good, so they are also going towards a better life. But I also fully agree with my colleague that all these people who come to the Republic of Croatia respect Croatian laws to have human rights, human freedoms and to treat them humanely. Therefore, I think that the debate conducted by colleague Sonja and my debate do not at any time come into collegiate any of the others. I have specifically processed the segment of this segment which speaks of the demographic state of the Republic of Croatia that the Republic of Croatia has over 3 million evicted Croats who can return but I also said that at this point we have 372,000 people who are threatening to go across. It means that the policies that should be in the Republic of Croatia should allow people that are already ours to stay, and these trends that we have demographically cannot change this government or the next government, it must be a common job for all governments of the Republic of Croatia to stop this trend of ageing and the trend of losing the population of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32676	Thank you. And the next replica, Dinko Buric. Here's your colleague Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32677	Thank you. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues of both, therefore, it is not disputed that the conditions of a better life should be created in Croatia for foreigners, but it is disputed that such living conditions should be created for Croatians and Croatian citizens to leave Croatia as a host population. We are talking about a migration policy that includes immigration and immigration, and creativity is not us, the Croatian State alone and independent 23 years ago, creating that it would be desirable only for foreigners and not desirable for Croats. And unfortunately today we have a situation where we have a government that behaves as an Immigration Office for Croats, and as an Immigration Office for Foreigners. And we are not against foreigners coming to Croatia, let them come, but we are against the fact that Croatian citizens, especially youth, are evicted under the pressure of the economic crisis for which the ruling structure is to blame. And when it comes to demographic policy that's trying to force itself here under migration policy, it's turning off the topic, but worse than turning off the topic. If you think the solution to Croatia's demographic policies is a negative image, the depopulations are to replace the Croats with foreigners, then you've pissed at us. The Croatian state was not created so that the Croatian youth, which thousands and thousands... would die in the war. Now the others will be forced to leave, and we will replace them with people who will improve the demographic picture of Croatia in number. Demographic picture of Croatia improves by active measures of innovative policy, by stimulating number of births, maternity benefits, etc. Not by evicting one another and moving the other. [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Buric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32678	We get it. Thank you. We have a response to the replica of colleague Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32679	Well, fellow Buric, you can talk whatever you want, and I've been in the debate and I've touched concrete data, and I don't think I've gone off the topic as in a direct relationship. And about what our relationship is as a party to young people and what we want to allow every resident in this world to have the freedom to move and freedom to choose their place of employment and their place of life, I do not want to bring or be a participant of the law to determine to any of our citizens by any force that they cannot go. It is so inevitable that we come to a large community of European peoples, that one greater number of quality people will go where they will earn more. That doesn't mean these people will be fewer citizens of the Republic of Croatia. They are heading towards the labour market where in this migration policy we are talking about freedom of movement, freedom of choice of profession. Am I satisfied with such a decision? I'm not satisfied with that decision, but it would be contrary to the policy views that our party advocates if you were to defend any man instead of allowing him to do so. We also want those people who come to the Republic of Croatia to feel the same way as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, with respect for all possible laws, equally and with the right freedom to choose their jobs and if there is room. Therefore, I do not think that at any point I have lost a line of migration policy in 2013-2015, but I have pointed out those things that are important for the future of the Republic of Croatia and that Croatian governments make such policies and make such conditions for young highly educated people to stay in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32680	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS club Dragan Montenegrin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32681	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the material of migration policy for the period 2013-2015. And I would say that as it stands here in one part that this for the first time was a document that I understood was adopted in 2007 and that it was intended to define that the Republic of Croatia is leading an active migration policy based on the principles of freedom of movement, solidarity, humanity, while at the same time caring about the economic, social, cultural and development of the common community. We heard among other things that this is one of the things we need on our way to EU membership. However, I would also say that it may be in other ranks and in the government's 2011-2015 mandate programme under Chapter – Human Rights and Civil Liberties. And it is said that 17 measures and activities primarily related to the modification and addition of the migration legal framework were planned for this purpose. But from this document, which is ahead of us, I will repeat, and on behalf of the club we couldn't, and all this time we've been fighting for a large group of people, Croatian citizens who, unfortunately, still have to figure it out, have not returned, which are therefore exiles and refugees in the process of returning. And I would suggest here on my own introduction that this document be completed, therefore with this provision, that this process is therefore also in the light of this process which has not yet been completed, which is also defined and which is within the framework of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme for this term of office. Why am I saying that? Well, here I would like to explain because this document says that one of the measures implemented is to facilitate the acquisition of Croatian citizenship to persons who are on the day of October 8, '91. In the year they had their residence in the Republic of Croatia and they were granted permanent stay without Croatian citizenship. Unfortunately, we have many, too many cases. So, let me put it this way for Croatian citizens or those who were born in the Republic of Croatia today have not yet achieved the right to receive a solution to Croatian citizenship. And I estimate there's about 3,000 of them around here. In fact, there was a question about, therefore, the birth of the parents, so before I say so, I think the ministry has had more questions on this subject. But this issue is not well and sufficiently elaborated on this amendment and addition of this Law and does not provide legal certainty, therefore, for people born in the Republic of Croatia and are seeking this right. As many as we have cases of younger people, so those who have lost the right to Croatian citizenship in this context and in this time. Recently, a representative question came to all of us on the bench for one of our colleagues who was born in '84. years if you could not notice, and the ministry here to say so replied that they were not able to respond positively to this person, although this person was born in the Republic of Croatia, even though his whole life to say so was not a minor, perhaps a person who left the Republic of Croatia, had completed primary school, high school, served that civilian military term if we still remember that civilian military deadline, got married to another person, got a child and when enrolment of the child de facto saw that he had no right or was deprived of citizenship Croatian. There are many such cases of people in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, they refer afterwards to the procedure to apply as foreigners, or a permanent stranger. However, procedures are very large, painful, almost impossible for a young family who today has a very difficult opportunity to hire young people because they need to pay some social and health care costs, etc. But there are people who have left. So, who have escaped from the Republic of Croatia, which is located in another, outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia and that part of the Law on residence where they have also warned that it is not good, that it is not a good solution and that this process should be involved, as I am now asking that this matter be included in these documents. So, there was a time when this process would end. This process, as I said at the outset, is not over yet and many of us are forgetting it. In fact, many of us forget that this process is not over, unfortunately. We had cases to say the Office of State Administrations issued housewives to persons and when the persons came to police administrations, so that counter room for administrative affairs and when they applied for the issue of ID cards, then those officials and the ministry actually told them that they were not the right housewives and that they had no right to Croatian citizenship. Now, we have repeatedly pointed to this problem because the Ministry of State Administration and the Office of State Administration therefore manage the automatic processing of data and in these automatic processing of data, these people are therefore being treated as Croatian citizens. The Ministry of the Interior doesn't have them in their records, but what hurt us more is that nothing happens after that. Therefore, no officials of the Ministry of the Interior shall apply against officials of the Ministry of State Administration, i.e. the Office of State Administration and the home office. So if someone has issued such documents, then it's about unconscious work. But he probably issued them on the basis of certain documents and facts in books run by the Ministry of State Administration or the parent office. This is something that needs to be harmonised, it is something that should be involved in laws between other and these measures, so it should be made easier for those people who were born in the Republic of Croatia, and perhaps they didn't know, or, in the meantime, did not know that they needed to be reported that they should be warned, not immediately after a short procedure, to take away citizenship. Unfortunately, in this time behind us, it was very, very much. I think this is one question that I'm saying has hit a large group of people who haven't solved their questions yet, issues of return, and in this way it's just making it harder for them. Because when you don't have citizenship, it's hard for you to exercise your rights. The right to rebuild, the right to employment because it is as I mentioned before very difficult to get to work, especially young couples, as the law says should last 8 years from the request for admission to Croatian citizenship in order to obtain these conditions. Therefore, the migration of this document, i.e. the programme or the excuse of the Croatian migration policy for the next period, should absolutely include issues of return and issues of sustainable return, so the people who remain, who should remain in their permanent residence that they had before, and not that because of these difficulties they have to leave and leave as it happened de facto with a very large number of people who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately this right here could not be realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32682	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Davor Stier. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32683	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary. So, respecting the intention of this migration policy proposal for the period from 2013 to 2015 to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis, therefore respecting this fact and that intention in the HDZ club, we still believe that this document should be much more ambitious. In fact, migration policy should be part of the overall population or demographic policy of the Republic of Croatia which is not visible in this document. In the proposal submitted by the Government, there is therefore no systematic integration of all elements necessary for the revitalisation and demographic recovery, but almost all efforts are limited to compliance with EU directives, technical procedures of relevant resolutions. In the front row of the Home Office. It is therefore impossible to talk about a comprehensive migration policy of the Republic of Croatia while at the same time abandoning or insufficiently identifying and participating all negative demographic parameters and trends leading Croatia to the very threshold of demographic breakdown. Because any form of migration of the population towards and from Croatia should be part of the planned needs of the development of the Croatian economy and society within the framework of a Strategy for Demographic Survival and Development of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the population of Croatia, all its structures should be the cornerstone of all planning and all policies and so on these migration policies. However, in this document, we do not think that there is sufficient clarity in both the underlying and the strategic objectives, and instead the primary importance is given to technical harmonisation with the acquis. Therefore, issues remain open as to how these technical practices are used for the economic and social development of Croatia, to preserve our identity in the conditions of a globalised economy and greater migration pressure after our entry into the EU. Speaking of these technical measures to achieve the objectives and also in foreign policy and foreign policy objectives, for example. the issue of concrete application of these technical measures shall be opened here. I will only specify the goal which is also the Government, and the opposition has also supported this support, for example. Syrian opposition and assistance to this humanitarian disaster that is currently taking place in Syria. And on that plan, we have also received more objections that the Ministry of the Interior is too slow to address these issues of family reunification of Syrian refugees who are then in some constant fear of exile. I think that, at that time, we are already going into the elaborate of a single policy and we can discuss this migration policy, and that aspect of technical application should then be better connected. But here, in this proposal for migration policy, there is also a missing aspect of regional development that is also necessarily linked to demographic policy and the incentive system that the state can and must contribute to, encourage the restoration of unpopulated areas. Ladies and gentlemen, in this government document on page 10, it is quite openly acknowledged that it is not possible to predict whether the recession in the economy will stop in the next four-year period. and then it is said that it is not possible to predict the impact of full membership of the Republic of Croatia on the migration movements of Croatian citizens to other EU countries and vice versa. However, here is the claim that it is impossible to predict when Croatia will come out of recession completely disagrees with the government's official view that we will leave the recession already this year and that Croatia's GDP will grow 1.8% in 2013. The Ministry of Finance also presented growth projections for 2014 and 2015 in the preparation of the state budget, which is precisely the period covered by this migration policy. So this same government is now sending us a document denying that there will be any economic growth that is then the government's position at all? What she claimed when the budget was adopted and what the finance minister is still representing, or what the Minister of the Interior presents to us today. In any case, it is clear that the Croatian population is ageing, that demographic trends are worrying. The proposal for a migration policy in this regard also offers a positive measure that we welcome here, which is to encourage the return or immigration of Croats from abroad to the Republic of Croatia to fill deficit jobs. The document points out that immigration, in the emigration of some 3 million Croats and their descendants, that Croatian emigration is a great wealth and a kind of natural reservoir of persons interested in a possible return to the Republic of Croatia. In this context, the proposal rightly concludes that the task of this migration policy is to make it easier to return to Croatian emigrants. However, this declared intention is in line with other parts of the document, which advocates tightening the conditions for obtaining Croatian citizenship for our emigrants. Furthermore, on page 12, under the measure 3.1 of the Impact Study and the need to amend Articles 11 and 16, The Law on Croatian Citizenship is in charge of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs to prepare such restrictive measures, while being excluded from this section or at least not foreseen for the work of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Emigrant Queen has been excluded, the State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia has been excluded. And not to say that it would be desirable here, not only to include these institutions but also to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, and to open a genuine, legal, transparent dialogue with the very emigrant institutions such as the Croatian World Congress and other emigrant associations. As regards the technical application itself of this action plan, here is the last page of this document from, on page 22, under issue 7.4. the period shall be fixed on a continuous basis. This raises the question from one technical aspect how the creation of an action plan can have a continuous deadline, probably for the development of such an action plan to encourage the return of Croatian emigrants can be set a concrete deadline. In addition, the way I mentioned the restrictive criteria for Croatian citizenship on that 12th page, and the possibility for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina to be freed from the right to remember Croatian citizenship in the future. It would only be fatal for survival, for the stay of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we all know that without their survival, national security of the Republic of Croatia would be at risk. Therefore, the HDZ Club cannot support this proposal in this form and is asking the Government to refer a comprehensive, consistent document in which the creation must include a natural and scientific community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32684	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Zoran Vinkovic. Here's my colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32685	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Right at the beginning of the HDSSB club, therefore, it considers that this is a partial document and in this part of it, we can accept it in a way that it is indeed one general document that, for certain purposes and the objective of migration policy, the area of migration policy, etc., but we believe that, with all this being mentioned here, we think that this document is missing what is most painful right now for the Republic of Croatia and it is not only one recognition from this document that we cannot expect for the next four years neither economic growth nor an increase in gross national product, nor a reduced unemployment, nor an exit from a deep crisis for which a large part of the former HDZ government is suffering, but also for a year and a little less than a year and a half of days of compliance with this government of the Kukuriku coalition. Indeed migration should be observed through two forms of immigration and immigration. I don't speak when I think about and this document is more practically related to the immigration of the rights of those who come to the Republic of Croatia and indeed in this part of this entire HDSSB document there is really nothing against, but we believe that this document should also be supported in a certain way by the relevant data. But this document, which is closely related to the overall Strategy of Migration, is not nearly a word about the real problem of Croatia at the moment, I don't mean emigration of national enemies from Croatia, but I mean, first of all, economic emigration and practically Croatia is at the time when many of ours are going to start with grandparents, and I don't mean the end of '45, but I mean the middle of the 1960s and the beginning of the '70s. Many fathers and mothers went to the countries of Western Europe under and known that name as temporary employees abroad. Many of them have left their lives on those specific construction sites, baustels, often I would say by making here in Croatia better living conditions for those who stayed in Croatia through schooling children, building housing, creating living conditions, etc. Here are the important and certain data that are not available in this document and show above all that, and I believe that this should have been shown here, given that this is the only data available for 2011, according to the State Statistics Institute in Croatia, 8534 persons have moved abroad, and 12699 persons have therefore moved abroad. The result is that it is practically a negative migration balance for the population of the Republic of Croatia and it represents exactly 4165 people. In 2011, 55.3% of Croatian citizens mostly moved from abroad, and they can responsibly claim that this is precisely the Croatian citizen part I would say to a smaller part of the Republic of Serbia or Republika Srpska and most of that part of Croatia, while 75% of Croatian citizens have moved in this number of 12699 and 20.1% of foreigners, respectively, while 4.9% of people are unknown. So it's probably the part of the person who's in asylums and probably fast transition through the Republic of Croatia. Out of the total number of displaced persons in Croatia, 43% moved from BiH, with the most of them moving to BiH 31.7% and Serbia 26%. In view of the gender structure in the total number of people inhabited, the proportion of women is higher, while in the total number of displaced persons the number of men is higher. And it is practically the part that Croatia repeats and repeats that scenario from the 1960s. And believe that today since here is Croatia television shows those successes and series believe that none of these persons, no matter how difficult it was, did Dudek get out of that train that went to Frankfurt or Munich or Stuttgart and went back to the next station to Gruntovčane. But we also have a second part that is also important for the Republic of Croatia, that is that the largest share of the displaced persons had the city of Zagreb, which in the first place and the number of displaced persons from the Republic of Croatia with 15.7%, followed by Sisak-Moslavina County with 10.3%, Split-Dalmatia, which is also second in number of displaced persons. In 2011, this may be the most important thing for Croatia, the residence within Croatia has changed 71403 persons and the largest share of these migrations to the city of Zagreb. So, what is and this is the largest share of migration is just happening from the most underdeveloped parts of Croatia, it is Slavonia and Baranja, it is the part of Dalmatia, so that those who have probably wanted to sound that way, may well have caused a series of replicas of what they wanted to happen with that border of Virovitica – Karlovac – Karlobag this is now happening in the migration area within the Republic of Croatia where people unsatisfactory and standard of life in undeveloped parts of the Republic of Croatia are moving to more developed parts of Zagreb especially so that we can definitely say that we have two Croatians, one rich one poor one, and there is no possibility in the face of implementing such policies as the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ensure that all life, especially the lack of decentralisation, especially the lack of investment in these parts of life is encouraged. What's still a problem and it doesn't contain, so this document that is more foreign-oriented, so to those who are moving to the Republic of Croatia, which is out of the question, I'm not talking about political emigration, I'm talking about economic emigration. That's the problem with moving young people. And here are a series of articles even certain documents that are also related to the European Union. I don't have enough time to get to know the minister and I would say in a hurry and mandate a written proposal for migration policy that should actually be a migration strategy. So one of the biggest problems is moving young people. And almost all the authorities and I would dare say most of the authorities in both local and regional, and especially in the state which is the most responsible for the situation in the Republic of Croatia, it is precisely that this problem is being solved by putting a head in the sand. And someone mentioned the statue of freedom. Be assured that the Croatians leaving and in Canada first meet New York, first see this statue of freedom. And believe me, they're welcome with that text. Unfortunately, Croatians do not leave low education, do not leave uneducated, but leave highly educated experts and staff in which this country has invested an extremely large amount of money as well as their families, and in return they have received the only possible solution of those 1600 kuna internships. That might be one of the biggest. For the past two years, certain programmes have organised the emigration of young people from Croatia between 18 and 35 years of age, so at the age of when it is the most active population, although the degree of education is not a condition in all these programmes. I especially think about that Canadian program of leaving itself is decided mostly by young people with high professional training. The problem with emigrants in overseas countries is that most of them, unlike many of the emigrants who remain within the European Union, never return. For example, employers in Canada on the Internet find potential workers most experts, mostly mining engineers and all other high-level educational experts. Many young people go that way with a return plan, but both history and experience from this closer history of the Croatian people are just showing the opposite. The data, therefore, that every third Croatian citizen with a degree does not live in Croatia is indeed alarming. We believe that this particular problem of emigrating young people, not the problem of so much that new asylum will be built in order to relieve Uževjevo, should have just been an integral part of this migration policy. A series of data coming from the European Union shows that in this part, therefore, from the very data from the Republic of Croatia relating to the labour licence quotas issued for foreigners over the last 10 years confirm the lack of a clear strategy. I'll remind you in 2000 4695 work permits for foreigners were issued. 2004. 8356. Then it's the number of foreign workers, 2003. 2004. 2979 work permits. Then the number grew from year to year in 2008 we had 10242 foreign workers in the Republic of Croatia in order to reach only 5300 in 2011 with one restrictive policy, allowing only extended work permits without a new issue. At the same time, we have a steady increase in unemployed persons in the Republic of Croatia, so with these highly educated, we have almost 300,000 of those who do not have high professional or higher professional equipment and who are ready just for the sake of the inability of the existence in the Republic of Croatia to come out and look for a job anywhere in the world, not only in the EU but also outside the EU and via the Pacific and Atlantic Ocean. Here, since I'm gonna stick to the time I'm gonna thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32686	Thank you, too. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32687	Here, Mr. Vinkovic, you said that Croatia had divided into one rich and one poor Croatia I would not agree with you, I think that Croatia divided into one poorer and one much poorer Croatia. There is no rich Croatia, there is a part of rich individuals in Croatia, and these are individuals with the honorable exceptions of successful people who have accumulated their wealth for generations. A good part of these rich individuals are, in fact, those individuals who in that original robbery or privatisation and the transition process actually destroyed Croatian national wealth. And when it comes to migration policy, the fact is, at least I think the Republic of Croatia must run a conservative immigration policy. I think that the Republic of Croatia would lead it and lead it because the fact that the number of inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia is about 4.3 million and that the entry of 200 thousand citizens, for example, in the United States, is an undetectable event, while, for example, the entry of 200 thousand people into the Republic of Croatia from another country would suddenly become the second most numerous people after Croatians into the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia cannot afford to allow a different migration policy than very conservative given the size and number of the population. That's how she's run, that's how she's led. One of the problems that precedes the instructions is that the Ministry of Interior in a number of cases really did not work according to the laws. So that some solutions were not made within those deadlines when they were actually to be brought. And this happened in a number of cases, and when conditions were met for some citizens who met the conditions for citizenship that these cases were not really solved, and this is the problem of non-functioning of the MUP, which I think is more or less just a reflection of attitude towards immigrants, but simply a reflection of the problem that the MUP has in other jobs that it does.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32688	Thank you. We have an answer. Zoran Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32689	Dear counterpart Djurovic here is about the graduation of so-called words and the decomposition of rich and poor Croatia. I am talking about Croatian frameworks, so I am not talking about global or European frameworks, or EU frameworks. So one Istria and Zagreb that have purchasing power per capita of nearly 13,000 euros and Slavonia and Baranja that have between 3 and 4 thousand euros in this way I consider rich and poor Croatia. In any case, apart from these 200 or 300 wealthy families from conversion and privatisation, we can't really talk globally about some rich Croatia. Regarding work permits, so I said that this document is practically not about emigration of Croatian population, and emigration is also part of, so I don't mean Croatians only, I mean all Croatian citizens. It just doesn't deal with that part, and emigration is part of migration policy. On the other hand, the wealth of one country is seen by the number of permits issued or the extension of work permits. So I'd like to live in a country like this. Germany and the '60s and '70s and now. Then my grandmother, my cousins, she went to Stuart to work at the hospital and cleaned beds, toilets, etc. But that's why she saved her salary in 30 years so much money she could buy her grandkids houses. Today it is you, as a parliamentary representative, that neither I nor I with this great salary in the Croatian Parliament, nor with a place in the economy we can provide for our children. And that's the fact. So, first of all, I advocate that this document is complemented by this very immigration policy and the problems stemming from the emigration of the Croatian population to the EU and outside the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32690	Thank you. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32691	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you spoke to your colleague Vinkovic about economic reasons and existential nature that result in migration, and in that sense you said that our citizens from certain regions who are poorer are going to those called richer. But unfortunately, even in those calls richer is no longer even there blooming roses. There's more poverty, and it's really hard for these people to manage. But when you were talking about regions, I want to say that on this list that you said you could certainly add more regions. I come from one area, from one region that is relatively and county that was relatively stable but because of the consequences of relations with agriculture where many young people have provided their existence, they have now created family farms in such a situation that they can no longer exist. They just can't survive anymore, and they're a lot of them closing up. And where are they now? Nowhere, they end up at the Employment Service, that figure goes up, and that's the big problem. And I can't even come here because it's just really hard. That's another problem. The problem is also the demographic picture that my colleague Stier was talking about. We are getting old, so there is a big problem in that part, and then there are many times we call on that bloom of Croatian villages how beautiful it is, how beautiful it is, etc. I am responsibly telling you that because of this relationship with agriculture, the Croatian village is being killed by the Croatian village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32692	Thank you, too. Answer, colleague Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32693	Well, here's a colleague I could count most of the Croatian regions, Croatian counties, since the standard of the population especially now by new tax repression standards is definitely at stake. However, preparing for this topic, I also found one warning from prominent economist Paul Stubbs, who says that Croats should not be afraid that after joining the EU there will be no more mass eviction of Croats because the EU needs highly educated experts above all. She doesn't need those 70s workers anymore than she needs now, but she says in that I would say to an economic dissertation that we need to worry more about abandoned villages, and right now we have what we warned about last year and this year that more and more family economies can't survive on the market, that the agricultural policy that is being implemented in the Republic of Croatia is really an elementary disaster, and that this is the most visible in the Croatian budget. However, I always said that I was for the incentive control system, so no one could get the incentive if he didn't make a certain contribution and if he didn't sow a particular board. But a decrease of nearly a billion kuna in the state budget at the threshold of EU entry practically broke agricultural and agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia. Not to mention the enormous imports, not to mention that we're importing really as my colleague said last week we're importing garbage, feeding on garbage and exporting what's best quality. And that's why we get the highest quality less than we do for what we import and what we give.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32694	We continue with an individual debate, Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32695	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So let me begin this debate to express my dissatisfaction with how this item of the agenda was found at this time on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, and later I will explain why this dissatisfaction. For the simple reason because this item on this agenda that we had on Friday on our benches was the last one to appear yesterday and this point suddenly became the second item of the agenda. And why am I saying that? So for the simple reason, colleagues and colleagues from these discussions so far, it is simply evident that in this point they had to debate the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Economy because it is a great honor for all the committees, however, that these two committees were crucial to discuss for one reason at this point. As far as the Finance Committee is concerned, there is no doubt in this strategy that there is no intended funding. Or any strategy whether it is working or whether it focuses on immigrants who are not Croatian emigrants, so they return to Croatia or immigrants from some other countries that come to Croatia for political, social, economic reasons does not matter. You, if you want to integrate into Croatian society, must provide them with certain financial resources. Why the economy ministry? We have already been on GSV for many years now, and we have large demands from Croatian businessmen for certain interests, to give them work permits and at the same time in Croatia we have 370,000 unemployed. So one huge illogicality and logical thing is that then in this policy, migration policy for the period 2013-2015. Among other things, we need to discuss this. Because they wanted me to or didn't want to admit it, but Croatia is becoming a settler country, so the country in which many want to come to work out of the environment for reasons that pay is much higher than in their country, and on the other hand, the conditions of Croatia's entry into the EU will be quite different than in the countries that are in the environment regardless of how we view ourselves in one way or another. And I therefore believe that Croatia should deposit national immigration policy, on the one hand politics towards emigrated Croats, and on the other hand immigration policy and immigration policy strategy towards those who want to come to Croatia first and also those who come to Croatia for political or social reasons. Because colleagues and colleagues when we look at how the other members, the old EU members, treat immigration policy, then you will see that immigration policy in those countries is one of the priority policies and perhaps putting this point on the agenda in such a way that it is put simply to be done so that we can say that we have a strategy for immigration policy in 2013-2015. By abolishing the immigration ministry practically abolishing any policy that would work for Croats to return to the EU, so those who went to say a year, two, three to earn a mark then or shilling and that the euro and the rest there were practically third generation also thinking about third-generation Croats from third countries to return to Croatia. So this is one immigration policy that must be separate, and the other is the one I'm talking about and no matter how much they run away from that truth, no matter how much we don't want to talk about it publicly, but look at every year as much as in the Croatian construction industry, there are demands from employers to issue work permits for so many and so many workers because they're just supposed to find workers on the Croatian market or they can get them cheaper outside. So, one document that we can technically say is well done, but the question is, Mr. Minister, does it reflect the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia? Whether we will finally determine ourselves to make a strategy for the immigration policy for the return of Croats, evicted Croats to Croatia. Are we going to clearly determine what policy we will be for the required workforce tomorrow in Croatia because because of the demographic image we cannot escape from? And another thing that is very important in terms of Croatia's size, the number of inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia on this strategy is that I must certainly point out that we simply must not allow things to be somehow... Because if we allow it that way, then we might have a lot of problems tomorrow, because this is one very sensitive question, if in any way you say you're against this one or that one, someone will call you because of chauvinism or this one or that one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that is why I say, on the one hand, the strategy for the immigrants who come to Croatia for social, political or economic reasons, and the other is what is missing from this strategy, which is a clearly defined strategy for Croatian emigrants, so the policy of returning these people to the Republic of Croatia. If this strategy had shown in certain segments that it wanted to think and think in such a way, then perhaps there would have been a need for additional resources to implement such a policy, there would also be a need for the establishment of a body, not just some office or something, but some body that would actually work on it. Because colleagues and colleagues of those who went to Croatia in 60 years after bread in Germany and Austria are now 3 generations, and if we don't attract those 3 generations to Croatia today then we forget that we will ever bring them back, they will remain the same as those in third countries and then we will only talk about some Croats we have in number, but unfortunately those of Croatia and Croatia will only have a place of origin from where their parents came from. So we lack what is crucial, and this is a strategy of immigration policy for evicted Croats, and such a strategy requires both certain material and financial resources. We lack the strategy of the Croatian economy, what profile of the workforce we need, that it is not every year that certain work permits are resolved in the 10th or 11th month, and their demands and needs are for the 2nd or 3rd month and ultimately what we must not forget when we talk about migration policy, which is that, unfortunately, the Homeland War has made many migration changes, and that is something that Croatia will have to think very much about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32696	Thank you, too. We have three replicas. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32697	Here's a esteemed colleague of Shuker, here on that board there, says that, that this Croatian Parliament has been restored practically by Croatian emigration donations from the areas of Europe and the overseas countries. It's pretty weak to see it, and it might be good to see, to have an indicator of how much it is, in fact, Croatian or Croatian citizens have returned from that emigration all these 23 years. I claim very little, very little. Regardless, no matter how much we love Croatia and the beautiful Croatia and the end where they come from, etc. but all that we did in this 23rd year through those administrative obstacles, through which I would say, vague policy and return and investment in the Republic led to a practically very small number of Croats returning, and even some of those who came were on, I would say in an extremely bad way, even deceived when they wanted to invest something in the Republic. Well done for what they gave in that aid for, and during the Homeland War, etc. But this whole document, therefore, is not a document that is not the whole migration policy of the Republic of Croatia, unrelated now, which is from 2013 to 2015 because it does not deal with exactly these biggest problems of immigration. Not politically but from these economics, from young people, from professionals, to the largest number of unemployed who are here thanks to this policy in Croatia do not see their future.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32698	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32699	Well, it's hard for my colleague Vinkovic to tell when there are no data, unfortunately there are very few who have returned, but there is something that is important and what is actually, which can't be killed, which is that it is easier, cheaper to integrate Croats who have moved or were temporarily moved out, to go back to Croatia, because they have some kind of connection, but someone who comes to Croatia who has nothing to do with Croatia. However, as the 60th political migration wanted to be shown as economic migration, and it is well known which areas the most Croats emigrated from, and finally when you look at the population census in 61, you will see how well that worked. And unfortunately today we are talking again about those Croats, though three generations who have not returned, who have stayed where they have gone. Then I say one political migration was led as emigration for this, for economic reasons. However, what unfortunately can happen to Croatia today, given everything that is happening, is that young, educated, highly educated people go back to one migration and the question is when will they ever return again. Because in the end, given the globalization of the world and everything, the question is, if someone goes where his living conditions and progress are five times better, they'll ever come back again. All those who have experienced what it means to be a Gustrabite bread would never want that to happen to their children, but unfortunately, what is the situation in Croatia, where all this together leads us, and this 370,000 unemployed army may be writing a black letter again. And I'm saying that this migration policy, the migration policy strategy, should have paid a little more attention to the past experience so that it wouldn't have happened to us again in the future. If only young and educated people hadn't gone outside again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32700	Thank you. Next replica, Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32701	Thank you. Dear fellow Shuker, at one point you showed concern that someone would not object to us that we were afraid to create some new settlers' ghettos, etc. We do not need to fear Croatia and Croats are not xenophobic people, very often we are on the contrary even the opposite. Now, in light of our entry into the EU, we are subject to xenophylia to the exaggeration of love of everything that is foreign as if it were honey and milk. However, when it comes to the situation of how you mentioned the lack of a strategy for the return of our emigrants, so the lack of an immigration strategy for emigrated Croats. It is not the basic problem of the Croatian state that the third generation of Croats is outside and questionable whether they will return, the problem is that there is an increasing number with that 3rd or 4th generation of new first generation Croats, today's generation, young people who are leaving, not because of the lack of a strategy for the immigration return of Croats, but because of the lack of a strategy for economic development in Croatia. And that is the fundamental reason that makes young people go not to EU countries but to Canada to New Zealand, Australia, so to the overseas countries when they will and will ever return. We have come in a position that our own will be what we have often feared not to be eager to see our grandchildren from Easter to Christmas if we must leave as we have known to warn Slavonia in other parts of Croatia rather than be eager to see them from their baptism to their crisis. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32702	Thank you. We have a colleague Shuker's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32703	Thank you very much. Col. Buric is becoming more and more common that world multinational companies are taking on some trips to their production facilities to students 3rd, 4, 5th year of technical colleges. There they show them that they see something and then they do some kind of testing and then they basically get from around the world a couple thousand of these people and then the best basis for certain test offers and certain contracts. So it's something that is offered to all students from all over the world, it's something that is offered to students from Croatia. It's just that somewhere else, they're in an en-thousand position with us, unfortunately, there's not much of them. See today at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering or Engineering how many students have already offered contracts from Dubai or elsewhere, but one basic question is how much it costs to train an electrical engineering engineer, an engineering engineer, one doctor, hundreds of thousands, and millions of euros can be spoken of. So this is the problem that awaits us in the future, but unfortunately with this proposal for migration policy we do not solve that problem from the past. And if we don't solve that problem from the past, and we don't find this migration policy strategy a model and a way to attract these young Croats from the outside to Croatia, then we certainly won't solve this problem of going to the world's newly completed students. And that's our real problem. And then unfortunately, we'll be forced to give more and more work permits a year. And when I talked about the ghetto, unfortunately, if you don't have a clear migration policy strategy, then you get ghettos. It's neither xenophobic nor anything but experience from other countries that happens. You want from any old EU member who has a long-standing experience in this, so you'll see all those who didn't have a clear migration policy that the ghetto happened to them, and as soon as the ghetto happens, unfortunately, it can't be anything good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32704	And the last replica of Davor Stier. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32705	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's your colleague Schuker. You've raised one key issue, which is the integration of foreigners and the experience that other countries in Western Europe have with this ghettoisation of such immigration groups. This is not yet a problem that is so present in Croatia but you have rightly warned that already we have to take care of it and look at the experience of older EU members, which is precisely the experience that in those countries where one excessive, extreme secularization of society has taken place just as it has been more difficult for these groups to integrate into one society that has actually lost their own identity because if you do not know who you are, you can hardly accept another. And in that case, there is once a controversy that borders on what is political correctness but which must be opened if we want to avoid some mistakes that have been made in Western Europe. On the other hand, in this document we have one treatment for Croatian emigrants who mentions in the document that they received citizenship according to privileged criteria. I think that approach to tell Croatian emigrants that they were privileged and that it must now be fixed is actually one wrong direction. Because just the integration of these emigrants if they want to return will be much simpler, so if you want cheaper than the integration of foreigners, it will again help the demographic restoration. So I think that in this very sense this document must be repaired and updated.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32706	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32707	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. That's why I tried to talk about this strategy and say we should think in two directions. One is migration for economic, social and political reasons, and the other is what we want to tell the Croats some painful wound we want to or won't be able to overcome all these years, which is this immigration policy and emigration of the return of emigrants to the Republic of Croatia. and what you said is that such a policy is always much cheaper and far easier because no matter what generation of second or third ones have some kind of relationship with Croatia, with Croatian customs, have some kind of family and a number of other seemingly banal reasons, which lead to a smooth integration into Croatian society. And for this other policy migration that we wanted to or didn't want to admit to ourselves, but we'll simply have to allow far greater imports of workers at the time when the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia begins is that it must be extremely cautious there, because if it is not being cautious for a number of reasons whether religious, political, such as this comes to the creation of ghettos, there is a gathering of people who have come from another world. Something in common connects them, which is not in Croatian society, and then eventually a problem arises for the whole society. And that's what may not be sufficiently indicated or explained in this strategy, Mr. Minister. Perhaps this is some sort of starting document and perhaps we should decide from this document in the future about the Strategy of Immigration Policy in the Republic of Croatia. So, one economic, political and social migration, and the other is an immigration policy that will go exclusively to motivate Croats who are emigrants to return to the Republic of Croatia. So there will be a series of effects and it is not good to talk about any privileges of the evicted Croatia. Because if there wasn't a community of evicted Croatians, we probably wouldn't be sitting here today. It's the only truth and the only fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32708	Thank you. And next debate, Maria Rapo. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32709	Respect for the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, respected MPs and respected MPs. Although the proposal for migration policy is summed up to 22 pages, this proposal raises many very important questions for the Republic of Croatia, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatian minorities in neighbouring countries and Croatian emigration. In the time I have at my disposal, I can't even mention most of the questions, so I'm just going to focus here on two specific questions. First, the survival of parts of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatian minorities in neighbouring countries in Croatian ethnic areas in those countries. Second, the return of Croatian emigrants to the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The survival and survival of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina was also outlined in 1995 in the National Programme for Demographic Policy adopted by the Croatian Parliament that year. Croatia was at no time intended to relocate Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina because it was not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia or of Croats in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is a country and its own state. In order to facilitate survival for Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina and neighbouring countries and to open the possibility of returning to Croatia, a provision has been introduced into the Foreign Employment Act that members of the Croatian people are not foreigners in Croatia although they do not have Croatian citizenship in terms of the provisions of the law. They did not have to seek Croatian citizenship, they could come, stay and work in Croatia without residence and work permits. Following the example of the Law on Citizenship of Members of the European Community or of the Union in the Law on Croatian Citizenship, the right to acquire Croatian citizenship has been introduced both by birth on the ground of Croatia and by belonging to the Croatian people under Articles 11, 16 and 30 of the Croatian people has been enabled to acquire Croatian citizenship and is not required to give up foreign citizenship. Many have taken advantage of it, and many have managed to find work with the Croatian passport in some European countries from which they returned, and have built or renovated houses in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The European countries had a guarantee from the Republic of Croatia that they would receive Croatian refugees when the time comes for their return. The Croatian Law on Croatian Citizenship was fully in line with the European Convention on Citizenship, which gives every country the right to sovereignly decide who to give its citizenship to and which prohibits discrimination over racial, religious, sexual or other belongings. Croatian citizenship is acquired on different grounds, based on marriage to a Croatian citizen or citizen, based on a number of years in Croatia, based on the interest of the Republic of Croatia, based on membership to the Croatian people. All those who have Croatian citizenship have equal rights and obligations regardless of where Croatian citizenship is based. The law on Croatian citizenship is not based on racist principles, which was visible not only in the law but also in its application. For example, the so-called the mixed families of refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Vojvodina, Montenegro, and the families of the returnees in which one of the parents of non-Croatian ethnic origin is. In the rules on the scholarship of Croatian students and students belonging to the Croatian people, it was recognised to anyone who could show that both parents were either one of his parents or grandparents or great-grandfathers or great-grandmothers of Croatian origin. Scholarships and Croatian citizenship were won by descendants of Croatian emigrants whose parents were from Arab countries, from Latin American countries, African countries, Asian countries, descendants of Croatians married to Maorka in New Zealand, etc. Those who have had problems with the acquisition of Croatian citizenship in many cases have had these problems because of the inexperience and will of certain civil servants. Amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship have amended articles of the law on the basis of which members of the Croatian people can obtain Croatian citizenship. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament The law on Croatian citizenship in this article limits the right of emigrants only to members of the Croatian people who have evicted from the territory of today's Republic of Croatia and their descendants to the third generation. The idea also excludes the emigrants who have moved from the territory of today's Republic of Croatia for example to Macedonia, although Macedonia is a foreign country such as any other country when it comes to emigrants. In the Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately, there is no defined concept of members of the Croatian people, nor is it in amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, which, in particular, creates problems for the descendants of emigrant Croats as well as Croats in BiH and neighbouring countries that do not allow a declaration of nationality in their forms. The migration policy explicitly states the tasks of this migration policy is to make it easier to return to all interested emigrants, however, in this same migration policy, the 7.4. creation and implementation of the Action Plan to encourage the return of Croatian emigrants in which one of the measures will be a review of Articles 11 and 16 in order to make a decision to bind citizenship to residence in Croatia and to give up foreign citizenship. The tasks of this migration policy should make it easier to return to all interested Croatian emigrants. The proposal for a migration policy is only at the very end in point 7. In point 7.4. is the creation and implementation of the Action Plan to encourage the return of Croatian emigrants, and the deadline for this measure is continuous. For the purpose of drawing up this action plan, a precise deadline must be established and some of the measures to be taken may be continued. The mission of this migration policy is to make it easier to return to all interested Croatian emigrants in this point of migration policy. Following the announcement of the difficult conditions of acquisition of Croatian citizenship and even the fact that any possibility of giving Croatian citizenship to Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia, and by repeating that members of the Croatian people are privileged to acquire Croatian citizenship, it is difficult to believe that migration policy wants to make it easier to return to all interested Croatian emigrants. For Croatian citizenship, members of the Croatian people pay as much as foreigners, although their demands are simpler and their integration is cheaper and faster, while e.g. Serbia gives free Serbian citizenship to all members of the Serb people living in the diaspora. Returning Croats from emigration is a gain for Croatia and citizenship is not privileged but based on legal provisions in the interest of the Croatian nation. There is no word in migration policy on Croats who have escaped or expelled from Vojvodina, BiH, Kosovo and have settled in areas of special state concern. They are still not residently taken care of, not a small number of Croatian families moving from house to house three times. These Croats are now forced to buy these houses at a very high and intolerable price, although most of these houses do not have a building permit, so they are also required to legalise these houses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32710	Thank you. Next to discuss Mile Horvat. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32711	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, the proposal for the migration policy of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2013 to 2015 is one document which, in any case, we in front of the SDSS Club will accept and support simply because it is a document without which I have a feeling we cannot enter these processes that are coming, which are ahead of us. Therefore, we cannot finish EU accession quality and proper. This proposal provides for 17 measures which are articulated here and which should address a new situation in which we will come, but certainly it is very important to note that the new status will be very interesting for the countries in its environment. So, for that reason, we think that this proposal should be supported in principle. However, in our opinion, this document deals with only one part of the migration policy and migration issues, which is mainly governed by the relationship to the facts of the arrival of foreigners to the Republic of Croatia. We think that we should complete this with one serious debate and with one mature and serious policy that needs to define our relationship to the economic emigration that everyone is talking about, I think we should also more seriously define the fact that we return as one segment of migration. We also think that we need to talk seriously and politically maturely about the sustainable remnant of our people here. So that's one package that should be arranged in a whole way and not just with these 17 measures that are proposed here. I'll say a few facts that you can't see from this strategy. Some indicators suggest that areas affected by the war, i.e. areas of special state concern, are in fact areas of greatest migration. In addition to the consequences of the war that are catastrophic still in these areas, with the poverty of returnees as well as poor information, certain isolation of some communication areas etc. are certainly reasons that do not give some kind of special hope for the future of those parts. And these are very important assumptions for staying or leaving. In addition, the data show that from 2009 to today more emigrated abroad than the settlers. So more people moved away than they moved in. Almost half of the people who moved abroad make up the population from 20 to 40 years old, which is an alarming thing. And there are cases in my area where we have extraordinary students of electrical engineering, communication activities, etc. who cannot get a job in their environment and are very looking forward to going to Canada because we are preparing for a young man to go to Gentingen to the Institute in Germany, so he needs it, we don't need it, etc. etc. The fact of return, which is one segment of migration policy, says: "According to the study of UHCR, today's picture of sustainable return is the following, only 38% of registered returnees actually live in Croatia, 45% left the country and were already close to 17% after their return.". So it's a catastrophic democratic, demographic picture. So, these returnees only employ around 19%, 4% work on black, it's the same obvious fact, about 7% on family farm property, 22% are unemployed and looking for a job, 47% of people are retired. So that's our working potential right now. It is also important that 55.3% of Croatian citizens moved from abroad in 2011, while 75% moved away. Of the total number of displaced persons in the Republic of Croatia, 43% moved from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and of the total number of displaced persons from the Republic of Croatia, most moved to Bosnia and Herzegovina 32.7%, and to Serbia 26%. It's a fact of migration events in the Republic of Croatia. The second thing is, mentioned citizenship, citizenship is of course a key quality for the normal life of every man, although in the opening part of the proposal for this migration policy, it states that refugees had previously had favourable conditions for obtaining permanent residence or citizenship. The experiences of returnees speak quite the opposite, so returnees who did not have Croatian citizenship, who returned to their homes were treated as foreigners. First, they had to be granted a temporary stay, of course with high administrative costs and problems, and then a permanent stay of 5 years before the conditions for them to get Croatian citizenship at all. At that time, what was the worst they couldn't do, so they couldn't get a job and were, of course, denied certain health insurance payments. It was only by changing and applying the new Foreign Law that the returnees were allowed to skip that temporary and receive permanent stay if they had their residence in the Republic of Croatia on 8.10.1991. These amendments to the law are certainly good for returnees with residence in the Republic of Croatia since that date, but the negative effects have been for returnees, refugees, for young people who have concluded marriage somewhere in some kind of refugee outside the Republic of Croatia. Thus, in such marriages that did not have residence in the Republic of Croatia in 91 years, marriage partners were unable to consume the positive changes of the law because it took 8 years of residence in the Republic of Croatia instead of the previous 5 years to gain citizenship. So that's the problem of an imperfect model that has so far been related to citizenship. I will now say only to one more extent, so action, or measure to meet the labour force needs described here as one of the possible measures that precedes an analysis of the labour market situation, etc. with a proposal for measures to employ foreigners, and in what quota and in what quantity, on the number, etc. is something that would be good to see in a concrete example. We have some bad experience with that kind of plan. They used to be Vladina, so-called. Action plans for the employment of members of national minorities. So, everything else is a dead letter on paper, well worked out, well prepared with good intentions, but in conduct it went very badly, so we fear that this too will remain an administrative measure, one good wish, a good plan to hire foreigners, and at the same time we see in the media every day what happens on the domestic labour market. So that's it, that's our view of this strategy. We will support it, but we think that it should be better complemented by seeing an entire strategy related to return and economic emigration, and the most important thing is to ensure that these young people we invested in are more respected abroad than we are in our midst. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32712	Thank you, too. We have one replica of Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32713	Just a little bit. Mr. Horvat needs the same thing on behalf of his club, and we're all actually in a variety of debates from different sides, all of us are actually in this demographic problem. The Minister of the Interior may not actually be the address that he should be talking to, but I think it's really one of the topics that should be found more, more on the Parliament's agenda because we all feel it no matter what context he's touched, he's so visible, it's such a serious social problem, this problem of unemployment of social hope, the lack of jobs, the departure of young people, it's becoming less and less of a citizen. It is a serious social problem that neither the Government nor the Croatian Parliament should no longer be glared. It goes beyond the scope of certain clubs and we all actually go back more or less in all the debates when we get rid of this problem of immigrants and legislation, and entering, in fact we all go back to the demographic problem again. It is the central migration problem of Croatia, but it is not the problem of these 1,000, 2000 or 3000 that we will take care of in one way or another. And we're all coming back again, and if it's finally time, maybe the minister would read home affairs, and he actually saw from these discussions what actually narrows most of the MPs, regardless of the party membership and the party they represent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32714	Thank you. We have a colleague Horvat's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32715	I thank my colleague, we all really share the same opinion of this issue. Is the minister of law, I think he is, he's a member of the government and we expect that these messages we've been trying to get to the government as high as possible or that he's really going to talk about one thing, about the need for a wider policy that will cover all these issues. Status, I'm not a man who's going to lamentate I'm not even catastrophic but definitely in Baranja where I come from 30 years ago it was a soft space where people come from all over the country and expand to work, to make money. Now it's a place where almost half of the working population does nothing. Don't do anything, people are lost in time and space, they have to sit in some mall and drink beer and wait for a better solution for tomorrow. So that's a message that should go from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32716	Thank you, too. Next up for debate, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32717	Thank you very much, Vice President Mr Batinic, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, fellow MPs. I have to admit that I liked the introduction of my colleague König from the HNS club who certainly evoked one of the episodes and Croatian history and Croatian emigration by mentioning the sentences that exist on this part of the island of Liberty and the island of Ellis where many Croatian immigrants went really in that hope that they are expected to have a better future and prosperity towards not only freedom in terms of democracy but above all economic development and probably have no family of any of us here in the Croatian Parliament as well as the very important Croatian citizens, but that someone from the ancestors is not part of these multiple waves of Croatian emigration, and therefore I think that they have relatives on various continents, and so that the parts of my family are also important to the Croatian people, as well as to the Croatian people in Croatia, Argentina, Chile, USA, it is really in being one of the wealth of Croatian people who have been rightly mentioned that in their relationship with the Croatian people, and that the Croatian people, as well as to the Croatian people, the Croatian people, the Croatian people, the Croatian people, who have become famously known the Croatian people, and the Croatian people, and they are very much more important. Also, Mr. Minister in point relating to points three relating to Croatian citizenship is one analysis of the legal basis for obtaining Croatian citizenship. Examples of European practice are set out, Articles 11 and 16. The law on Croatian citizenship as a basis for gaining citizenship. I have to admit that I'm a little sorry that here after only two months we have one topic again that is related to your portfolio teaching the law of residence where we won it. The majority in the Croatian Parliament won a new Law on residence where there are three chapters on the establishment of a real residence and a check-out from a data collection on residence and residence with a field survey, with a response from the police to an examination of whether someone is really at an address. However, as a result of such a finding, the lack of ID, in practice, of Articles 11 and 16 may lead to a perspective of staying without a Croatian passport. I think that's the direction we need to take a very, very careful look at and see if he's exactly what we want or not. The legal gains of the EU in this respect are not so hard nor binding, and these policies of the Member States vary, and it seems to me that we do not have to send messages towards Croatian emigration that will certainly not be accepted there with sympathy, and that perhaps a simpler way of gaining Croatian citizenship for other categories to which you compare it in this strategy can be more specialised without in any way depriving but also acquired rights and practices that applied to those who have called for Croatian origin. So I would certainly appeal to a much more sophisticated approach by the Croatian state, because these are messages that are carefully heard in Croatian emigration and which are not too much approval but against. Also, this document of migration policy contains a real review of a set of capital laws that the European Union will very closely monitor not only these four months and ten days to membership but will become key laws in the first two years of membership as Croatia has shown its ambition to enter the Schengen system two years after its membership. And therefore, in particular point 1 concerning visa policy on all aspects of border security and ultimately the ability of the Croatian state, all services primarily of the Croatian police to control external borders with all other services will be of priority when not only the commission but also the Member States will observe us. I am saying this because, for example, Bulgaria and Romania have already entered the EU not so close to 2007, but they are not yet allowed to become part of the Schengen system. This tells us about the high speed of Member States for the issue of emigration, to prevent, above all, illegal migrations that lead to the problem of integration and problems in labour markets, and in some countries to the growth of xenophobia. These are all related processes that many societies in particular in more developed, older EU members today take care of and try to respond to these challenges. I'm going to mention one example that came up as a side effect of the Arab Spring. You will remember when many migrants in one difficult situation set out to those boats in a smaller or larger direction from their corners than the Northern Mediterranean that at one point there was an increase in the border between Italy and France. It was almost unimaginable, they were mostly immigrants by francophonic countries which, of course, due to ties with France, family ties, relatives, friends, etc. They wanted to enter France, not stay in Italy. These are situations that Croatia has not met to a greater extent so far. On Croatian islands and on the Croatian coast, such ships happen to agree. However, it is quite certain that EU membership and these phenomena will be much more likely than before. so that, above all, irregular migration needs to be taken into account, and of course, this also leads to the strengthening of the institutional capacity of Croatia and, when it comes to shelters and, of course, to better control, where the role of the coast guard plays an extremely important and important role. It should also be said that EU migration policy is also based on the principle of solidarity and accountability and integration. The document mentions what happened. a blue EU card that allows easier entry and stay of non-EU citizens, especially students, enables family gathering, allows for regularisation of long-term stays. These are all aspects that are part of this document that Croatia must be able to accept and implement in practice as a future EU member. I therefore believe that this topic is of capital importance, it will be one of the most important in the first years of EU membership, and I believe that, regardless of what we originally saw as a strategy, so in this case, the Commission did not have any objections to the overall activity, and I will not forget to mention the need to strengthen consular capacity in countries such as Russia and Turkey whose status on this other side of the visa regime also has consequences for bilateral relations, for economic relations but of course for Croatian tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32718	Thank you, too. And the last individual debate of Đurjica twilight. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32719	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's my colleague Plenkovic's debate, indeed, would sign the entire debate and the other representatives who spoke, of course. Do we need and do we need this Strategy for the Migration Policy of the Republic of Croatia tonight? Of course we do. Do we need to talk about her in the time between 15 and 17 hours, and that two or three committees have passed before that, I don't know how serious that is. Kola Plenkovic said very well regarding our entry into the EU recently as EU members are being set up for their migration strategies. Here's me finding one piece of information that France has been discussing a document like this for four years. Such a document and strategy is very important for the life of a country, and I especially have to say for our Croatian population, which is not large with 4 million inhabitants, it may indeed be the size of a large European city. I would agree equally with all those who represented the opinion that we should pay much more attention to the return of our emigrants who moved from Croatia to three stages. The first stage was 1907, overseas, so between the two wars it was that war on the 15th and 18th, '41 to '45 when they went across the ocean with their belly after bread because they had nothing to live on. And, of course, after the war, there was an economic immigration outside Croatia where our members of the family and here our Croats and Croats went to work in other European countries or overseas. There they were respected as workers, neither were they ashamed to dig so-called. They were baustelians. Should we be afraid of this strategy from 2013 to 2015 that people will enter a country that can be employed? I believe not, and that's what my colleague Stier said in his presentation because here and the government tells us here clearly, says to those who might even be thinking of coming here to look for a job that has nothing to look for. Unfortunately, there are no Croats living here either because we see it coming in front of us, I guess there will come this strategic investment bill that we don't even know what it's going to be like and we don't even know what it's up to, or even a series of laws that are still in the first or second reading. It's the Agricultural Land Act. We don't know what will happen if there will really be such migration again from the village to the city as they were after '45. the year when the Croatian peasant was completely deposed and as such left his estate and village. The worst for me is the situation that happened in this case that is our Homeland War when our Croats mostly died on the battlefield, and in part these same Croats had to leave this Croatia. How this and the way it is in reality will reflect, and on the subject in which everyone has debated today, and this is a demographic restoration. I don't know that. I certainly know that we do not have to expect demographic restoration in a way that we will integrate asylum seekers from different countries. We have some data that, say, from Asia from 5% to 63% were emigrating to Croatia. However, we see that it seems to me and it is shrinking. So this is about social integration, which is good. Man must be human especially when it comes to political reasons for people who have sought asylum in our Croatia, because we know best what it means to be politically persecuted from the times of communism, so here in this Homeland War many Croats have experienced what it means. We must look back here at the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as at the beginning of the Homeland War, a negative picture of them began to be created. In fact, they were wanted in a way that I would say and humiliate them, say different things to them. However, when the front line was to be reached, they responded, and that is why we should respectfully think about these people as well. How some other people will be integrated, some other asylum seekers who will come when we don't even have good shelters for them, we don't know how much it will cost, how they will be paid for schooling, how they will be taught Croatian when this same schooling is unfortunately not free for our children and we pay very expensively. I know that this document should be supported, of course, because we are becoming a member of the European Union, but we hope that we will have a more serious strategy that we will have a much more time to discuss, in which we will find a common thought, both left and right and middle, which will lead us to make Croatia truly desirable for life but to be a country in which both Croats and Croats are particularly young people who, unfortunately, are at the beginning of the 21st century and now we see this trend of moving our highly educated children, unfortunately, with them not wanting to go back. And today, these very countries of the European Union, but I must say, they are happy to receive them, they will gladly give them everything, and we should make such an environment that they do not leave, that we call them back to come back just as 3 million of our emigrants have left Croatia so that at least we can offer such a life to our children of emigrants that they can live here carefreely and build our homeland with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32720	Thank you, too. We have one replica of Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32721	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you spoke about the economic reasons they have for migration, you said of course that we should be afraid that our young people will go into the world and, of course, it's amazing and amazing all these polls where young people say they want to go. It is extremely worrying, and of course in these circumstances imperceptibility where many are at the Employment Office certainly thinking about these circumstances. A special place in this, of course, is the Croatian village, and you were thinking in that section of the Agricultural Land Act. Not only about the agricultural land of a colleague, about all the relations towards the Croatian village and agriculture, the attitude towards livestock farming and all those statistics that are negative in Croatian agriculture, this really leads to the collapse of the Croatian village, leaving the Croatian village and now, in these circumstances, to think about demographic restoration and such a situation does not really give us hope for optimism. I believe that this is also the way to think about the problem, and of course the Croatian village that should really be in a special position and the flowering of the Croatian villages that we were talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32722	Thank you, too. Answer, there you go, comrade twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32723	Thank you very much. Well, I agree with you about what you said about the Croatian village and of course it is not just about the Croatian village. This is also about Croatian families living not only in the village but also living in the city, so they became economically dependent on everything and everything, and certainly not as independent as they should be. I would personally advocate and I would be happy if this repeat Croatia would be a country in which everyone would like to come. I am unhappy because Croatia has become a two-year-old country from which young people want to go out with their belly after bread. We need to do much more to make them stay, that they have a place to work because believe today, and we don't have any projects, we don't have roads, we don't have highways, we don't have tunnels where someone could get a job, we'd be able to work our people with high professional equipment and we wouldn't be able to dig channels if we had where to go, so they went away for years outside of the borders of Nice Ours and there they were doing these jobs, we won't be able to find a job for our own, let alone for those who would come here to seek asylum. Well, I think he might not even come.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32724	Thank you. And on behalf of the promoter, Minister Ranko Ostojic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32725	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs I will try to look at the two debates that were and in some way summed up and try to give some of the answers that were given in today's debate. Above all, of course, that the policy of this government is not a policy that would lead to a new migration wave or something like it was mentioned at the beginning, and I think it's been deplaced to mention since this country was in crisis, ever since this country was in trouble, since the tens of billions of kunas were created in debt, ever since the evasive reforms were avoided, ever since it was actually trying to forget what to face and how to buy social peace. However, since this is not a topic, in my opinion migration policies, then I will first try to focus on these concrete things that have been brought here. I have to answer about the procedures that have been specifically conducted in the Ministry of the Interior system that anyone who has potentially not been satisfied with the speed or similar in this country has another degree to resolve these matters so that it does not depend solely on the will of individuals or on the possible slowness of the police, or the Ministry of the Interior. And here I would remind you again that any acceleration of the procedure if you see it or if you think it might be decided differently that it is the Parliament and parliamentary deputies who are passing the laws on the basis of which the police are acting. As far as taking away possibly this case that you spoke of answering a representative question for a young man in '84. The year is given, and among other things, I have to point out that it's exactly what the law says, and the answer behind that is the law, and if you think things need to be changed, then I need to go to law changes, not ask the police to act differently from the law, or that the Home Office is doing it differently. So it's also a small recession about how it's the usual way to handle the police myself while I'm the minister I'll always ask for, and that's the answer for you colleagues about that, it's not a reflection of any state of affairs at the Ministry of the Interior but a reflection of the application of laws that I will always and regularly insist on. As far as migration policy itself is concerned whether it should have been more ambitious, possibly to include the population part of the revitalisation, the democratic restoration, whether it should actually be a document that should prevent a demographic breakdown, I must say that it would be good if you had looked at the migration policy in 2007. - 2008. This policy was certainly not proposed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs which I am running, so we could find some similarities and that we have no intention of doing anything more than what migration policy is and that we agreed exactly with the EU and not in 10 days, it is true that it is one of the conditions of monitoring but it took a long time. So that part of the conversation is very well conducted. And just a warning, I must point out that we have also had direct talks, bilateral meetings with other ministries, countries in the environment specifically Austria for the very reason that we get the best standards and ways to do it. So it's true she's not ambitious and she has no intention of solving this part of the issue, but I think the purpose of why the migration policy was adopted is in this document. I must also point out that no one thinks of the Croatian emigrants to put an end to them, so only the authority to mention them in paragraph 7 should be mentioned before then if we are already playing with numbers to see the point 3 of Croatian citizenship where it is mentioned long before this last point. I think that when you have 7 main points and inside of that about 30 measures not 17, 17 had that former migration policy, then you will see that this is arranged in a way that tries to get a balance between what Croatia can do and to be as concrete a migration policy as possible. Also, I have to say, I know you read well, but you didn't quote well. When you quote, then you need to quote exactly what it says. In the next 4 years, it is not possible to predict the pace and whether the recession in the economy will stop. You quoted it a little differently, you said the promoter said that it meant the country would stay in recession and that it was actually established by these sentences here. If it's necessary again, I'll say at what rate and whether or not the recession will stop. I would really like to be able to say with certainty that it will stop, but I probably can't do it in Germany either. What matters is not the intention of playing with what is said in sentences, but I think it's important to say that in the migration policy itself, the goal was just to point out very specifically the problems we are facing. And I agree with my colleague, Sumrak, who said that this topic is probably much more than just a matter of attention, and this is in some way also an answer to Mr Plenkovic about the situation I am facing because you need to know that the Minister of Interior of the Republic of Croatia is regularly taking part in the council of his resort, justice and home affairs ministers, regularly at formal and informal meetings. This topic of asylum, irregular migration, the issue of Greece, Turkey, Syria and everything else is the top topic and is being discussed in preparations for European Commission decisions. What I also want to point out is that we have certain data that must be objects, I'm sorry that it wasn't mentioned, we are at this point meaning more transit countries, meaning concrete than destination countries. It's kind of good, but very soon this situation will change. But I'm going to try to back it up with concrete numbers, we've had a yearly circus, I'm talking about numbers, 100 asylum applications, today we're going to have 25 asylum applications a day. These are the reasons why we actually need to prepare our capacities and why we are going to have to be ready to share as a member of the EU the problem they have long ago. As far as these comments are concerned, if the document were partial, what counterpart Vinkovic was pointing out, and his colleague Buric has nothing to object to, I would only say that part of both immigration and immigration are of course migration movements. And I think it would be good to back up the data that connects to the migration movement, and in fact we've got all the wrong information about how many people actually moved out of Croatia, of course by wave because of the war and as a consequence of the war. What is happening in the western countries of Europe means what would be an immigration wave or from Croatia, etc. We don't have it right now. What is true, that of course people are looking for better living conditions, that they are looking for a better part of the job, and at the same time we need to know that we have a large number of demands for those who would like to come to Croatia, for which Croatia is also a much better country for life than in their own countries. And there's a balance, that's what it takes. So when my colleague Schuker spoke, it was about the demands of employers around a number of quotas, that is, a number of work permits for people who need to come, and on the other hand, we are faced with a huge number of unemployed, how so? Is it someone who doesn't want to do these jobs that foreigners would be willing to do? It's something that we have a problem with, I don't think he's just lying in the drain of young people who are educated and would be willing to go there, I think there's this other element, which is that the problem of cheap labour that we tried to solve here through migration policy is something that is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Because it's bad when actually someone who's not ready for that money to work with us, we come into a situation that we're willing to have someone from another country to do it, and then a man pulls all the rights from the employment office. About the Croats who usually leave, Canada has been highlighted as an example, today it can really happen, but it can't be compared to what was before the entry or early 20th century as it would remind you that it's not going to Canada via New York, today it's a little more modern times, so you're going to fly directly to Canada, because it's not the ships that drive people like today the world has become quite global and you can find online ads in different places. No one organizes an emigration from Croatia, so I mentioned this for that reason. As far as practical measures are concerned, fellow Shucker was a matter of practical measures, it is also mentioned, the financial means, means the measure, writes who and from which funds are paid, or if the financial resources from the state budget are to be found specifically in the items of the competent authorities under the ordinary activity. Not so for all, in some places it is mentioned and items exactly who needs to be financed. Around the technical part, it is true that this is a technical strategy, of course for the reasons that your content has been translated into these and action plans, so please respect that part if there are discs, there is no problem technical change. Of course, the action plan, the action plan and the implementation goes on and on and on, it is not our intention to talk about how we will constantly come up with an action plan because I think it is clear that this is not the intention. And our past problems, which is how to bring back young Croats to Croatia. We can make such things as truth, various attempts, policies, action plans to try people who are third generation etc. to find their place here. But for him there are no obstacles, these people would go back to the moment when they had better conditions here than where they are, they would have done so 20 years ago when they got passports, because somewhere around 800,000 people abroad or meaning Croatian citizens have, so these documents and they're out there, no one would have stopped them from coming back to their homeland, especially if they were better off here. I completely agree that it's much easier to integrate people who at least have, as they say, part of a relationship, so everything that was being helped towards emigrants was precisely in that intention. And what's Mrs... was found, it was that Croatia was constantly making legal solutions that actually hit on what you don't have in any other solution, or you have to live here, and you don't even have to know the language and you can have dual citizenship, you don't have to ask for forgiveness and go so far as to Article 18 regulated that in a situation where our citizen is seeking Austrian citizenship for example, we guarantee him that we will issue a confirmation that he ceases to be a Croatian citizen the moment he becomes an Austrian citizen that we will return him to Croatian citizenship at the same time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is something that was in our policies, of course, when we talk about Croatian laws, about citizenship was an intensity, of course, not to let someone go to work, temporary work, etc. goes from Croatian citizenship because most of the countries are looking for it. The release from the previous because it is a fundamental thing and it is mentioned here in this migration strategy found naturalisation in developed European countries is a real, effective relationship between the individual and the country based on a stay and the demand for layoffs from foreign citizenship confirms the belonging of an individual to a particular state. That is why it is important not to confuse the idea of an emigrant and a Croatian citizen in this sense in order not to be misunderstood. I think it's important, of course, that they need encouraging measures to get people back, they'll integrate more easily. We are trying to get right through the office of the Croatians outside the country, through a plan that would have been presented to them, and here is a concrete measure, so I do not think it is good to say that the authority is complex because it accurately states that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs together with the Committee for Croatians outside the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Emigrants Queen, the State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia from the first to the third quarter of 2013 conducted a survey in the framework of Croatian emigration in the desire to return to Croatia. Of course it wouldn't be anything if it wasn't for the catalogue of employment opportunities and investments in the Republic of Croatia. That's what you're asking right now. Catalogue, Ministry of Economy and Entrepreneurship, Croatian Employment and the same participants that I just listed. Fourth quarter of 2013. Therefore, I would, however, through further presentation of the possibility of hiring the Republic of Croatia in the communities of Croatian emigrants, an action plan to encourage the return of Croatian emigrants, which I have stated is that the state office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is the bearer and the participants that you have listed, when we say through the continued implementation of this action plan, the interest is to try a link of course and bring back these people. As far as privileged, unprivileged people are concerned, nobody said it in a negative sense, so it's said it's true. Just before I said what definitions are in all countries and the Croatian Parliament is in all variations regardless of who was in power exactly doing this and it is to favour now in positive discrimination so that they do not misread the way of gaining citizenship. However, we faced the fact that we needed to check what our effect was, what we got through all the measures that we were carrying out just those articles. Who actually came back to us from 800,000 people who got Croatian citizenship. That doesn't need to be feared, meaning the goal and let's see if we went somewhere wrong isn't just a good enough passport, it's necessary to take quality measures, especially working with countries. Of course concern about the survival and survival of Croats in BIH is one of the things that are not mentioned here because it is no longer a matter of migration policy, it is a policy that is defined as regards all procedures because it is true that BIH is their homeland, but also the obligation of the Republic of Croatia which is defined in the Constitution to care for Croats in BIH. What else I want in the end I mean well I'll try to be, you know I've been talking a little bit longer but at least you know I always come to the Parliament and I know how to fight if I have to, but I'm willing to discuss all the issues. I think the question of what I could now recognize is what a potentially large number of parliamentary MPs about demographic policy, about the situation that would be dealt with. But what I'm saying isn't whether I'm at the right address, Minister, but it's hurting me, now I have to say it. It makes me wonder what exactly those as legislators who need to discuss this have no proposal but are always going to wait for someone else to write it, that immigration policy did not come to the agenda, I guess the question is whether it would ever be discussed then on the issue of demographic problems in Croatia. Here I think there's this variant where we should go with the proposal and the discussions on these topics without waiting for the opportunity that then and for this to happen. As for any more details, I don't know if I forgot anything else, I did, just a little bit. The implementation of the former migration strategy was partly done, and I tried to explain, as you saw, not from the fact that it all started some years, but from the continuity that was first adopted in 2007, 2008. Let's make 17 measures as many of them are realised precisely because I think it's one state's policy not one's government, and in this direction I've watched how we see that we further advance these details by noting exactly what has been done positively, what laws have been passed, what has changed everything and how important things have been implemented. What I have of course promised for the end, which is the question of Schengen, there are no colleagues from Plenkovic because he was not even at the beginning when I spoke in advance about the Russian and Turkish situation so that I will give it to him, but it is important that Croatia did not show its desire to enter Schengen in two years because it does not show up, but it has to be minimally two years to apply for Schengen at all. And our intention is to meet the standards of entering Schengen two years after joining the EU. And therefore, of course, we will use EU funds to boost capacity in border control. But then Croatian police go to the EU's borders, not more Croatian borders. And that's one serious task, and I agree with that, and there's no mercy. There is serious monitoring, so for every thing the decision will, of course, be made by all members and no one guarantees that we may not enter before Romania and Bulgaria into Schengen space. I mean, I don't want anything bad, even though, it's good to meet those standards, but what's a matter of irregular migration, we're expected to be precisely serious problems, but that's why we're seriously preparing ourselves, and I'm sure that just through testing the Schengen limit standards in these deadlines that have to be made ready for this standard to be as high or not as high as it has to be in all other countries, otherwise we won't be able to enter the Schengen area as much as our wish. And as far as this asylum is concerned, I still have to mention it in the end, these figures are serious about having one thing, and that is that we are still facing those who are using the asylum requirement in a way that before they are decided on their possible asylum request to leave the country. This means that it is the abuse of the international asylum institute only in a way that will spend some time on a safe destination and eventually leave the country. These are serious costs for the Republic of Croatia and the percentage of asylum granted is not the result of conservative policy, but indeed a very small number of those who have met the conditions for asylum. That's what the problem is at this point, which is that we have a large inflow, a large number of asylum seekers, and that we're faced with the situation that it's just abuse of an international asylum institute. Here's my thanks. There'll probably be a chance after these replicas that we'll be communicating a little bit more. But in any case, this hour is so much notice I thank everyone for the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32726	Thank you, Minister. We have four replicas. The first one came to Davor Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32727	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here are three things, one about the 2007 documents, so no one is stopping us from being more ambitious with this document before we join the EU, and in that sense that note was going. Secondly, around the dispute over the quote that there is no more reluctance to read everything but now it says "In the next four-year period it is not possible to predict at what rate and whether the recession in the economy will stop, or start economic recovery and growth." So, clearly, the ministers in this document are wondering if there will be economic recovery and growth in a four-year period at all. I only warned you that Minister Linic, your colleague in the government, said there will be economic growth this year and that he predicts that it will be in 2014 and 2015. And here you doubt it will come to that. I agree with you that we understand each other, Mr. Minister, but I warn you that you obviously did not comply with that with the Minister of Finance, so I don't know what the official position of the Government is, whether it will be in this four-year term of economic growth or not, or whether it will be, or not. And thirdly, I mentioned that State Office for Croats outside Croatia, the Emigrant Matica, and you have also mentioned it in these final words now. But I mentioned it in the context that it would be good to have, to this extent, three one impact examinations and the need to amend Article 11i 16. The law on Croatian citizenship to include them in this because here you predicted the holder to be a MUP and a participant only the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. And I think these other institutions should be involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32728	Thank you. Minister, go ahead. You can go from place to place. Minister, I'm asking you from the scene to answer just turn on the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32729	You have to consider that I left Parliament a long time ago, so they're new rules. As far as the document is concerned, the question of ambition, I think we've discussed it. I'm not going to add to that. I can agree with the possible situation that we never have to be limited to that. We have made twice as many measures in this section regarding migration policy. But we didn't include these other questions. As for the re-quote and everything else, I hope that first of all we can agree on that you will be happy to be Minister Linic right. So I hope you'll take this sentence as a questionable sentence, too, is that we don't know for the simple reason why we can't really guess right now. It wasn't intended to be a guess, but we'll adapt to that. I will give for the right if anyone has sinned that I have made a mistake if I would like it to be so, and I'm sure everyone in this assembly is interested in Croatia getting out of the crisis as soon as possible, that the sooner it has economic growth but I think it's just as good and responsible not to speculate on my part by writing this here, we couldn't say it would be like that. That's why he's standing inside. As far as the three ones are concerned, we can agree immediately is not controversial, namely it is never intended to receive the voice or signals of all those who are interested. If someone isn't written there, it doesn't mean they won't be asked to take an opinion from him. Therefore, I think that in that analysis, it is precisely you who arranges, given the intention we had and at these other points, that there is no point in excluding anyone in assessing the impact of this and that analysis, so that there is no dispute.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32730	Thank you. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32731	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I noticed your Mr. Minister's claim where you said that the policy of this government wasn't to lead to a new immigration wave and that no one was organising an emigration. Save God for someone to think of something like that. But you know, young people they're full of initiatives and they organize themselves. And these data are really worrying about how much they claim to want to leave the homeland. And we mustn't forget that they're not patriots, they certainly are. Well, now that our generals have been released, we have witnessed so much patriotism that we really need to mention it here. But the existential opportunity and all the other circumstances that is why we encourage you, Mr. Minister, are you... We encourage you to start an economy, to make this course of unemployment go back. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then we will have Croatia... So make the development of Croatia evenly so that the one in the country can live well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Stop the breakdown of Croatian villages and in this way we will achieve... recovery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But these measures you're taking, here I am at a quality address, I'm not guaranteeing it, and that's why our young people are worried, and that's why they say so so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32732	Thank you, too. Minister, will you answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32733	Here's a little bit. My dear colleague, it's not that someone thought it, but it's said in the debate and one sentence and another sentence from the colleagues who have left the hall now, and then I won't stress it out in particular. And for that reason, I used those sentences around the emigration wave, but also this part about the sentence specifically spoken by my colleague Vinkovic, which is to organise the emigration. So these are the things I reacted to through this part of this debate. As far as the message is concerned, I will repeat the same thing, and it is likely that it is of interest to all that the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia show the result and finally get out of the crisis. I'm not going to go on with what you're probably expecting, which is about guilt or shared guilt or anything like that. This part is much more important to me to say about the fact that I am sure that there is a consensus in Croatia for people who are interested in Croatia to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32734	Thank you, too. Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32735	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, honestly speaking, I expected you in your final address to remain on those three, so to speak, the directions that have been crystallized in the debate. That's one. This is the demographic problem of the Croatian around which we all agreed more or less, regardless of which side of the assembly we spoke. The second is because of this demographic problem that Croatia will experience economic migration towards Croatia. And the third strategy towards the return of emigrants to the Republic of Croatia. So, to determine that something and what I actually signed up for, I didn't understand when you said that you were expecting us to propose the law and not wait for you to pass the law. A certain political group or political party may propose some kind of legal proposal as it is referred to in the Parliament. We all know that best, but we know who in this country is proposing laws, who is passing laws and ultimately based on monitoring whose obligation it was to give this proposal to this Migration Strategy. So I think this debate clearly referred to how this strategy should be, what it should look like. And in the end, you said there was insurance. No, the funds are secured for some flat-rate programmes, but if we're going to divide these three basic directions, then you're absolutely short of money. However, when it is explained that these assets are provided at one general level, these funds are not secured but are likely to be sought in different positions if something happens that can be paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32736	Thank you. Next replica Drazen Djurovic. Here's my colleague Đurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32737	Here's a very short one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32738	And you have the answer. Excuse me, Minister. Here you go. Replication response. You need to be faster, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32739	As regards this demographic policy, etc. I stressed why immigration policy is separate from that, and then there will be a direct response that was related to the specific question of the minister. Maybe you weren't at that moment in the O.R. It's about a specific situation, and that's what I'm going to quote now: "if I'm the right address" was addressing the minister, and I've responded to that, which is that I think a topic that's not today's topic, which is possibly a demographic renewal or what was asked for, and that's that the demographic problem is being discussed, so it doesn't have to be asked of the minister to be the one to encourage such a debate. That's why there's a very different version that Parliamentarians can initiate. We don't have to wait for an opportunity around migration policy. That's what I was talking about. Here I'm saying, so this was a question of what was sent as a message, and that's that, if I'm the right address eventually to solve that story and about demographic policy, demographic decline, etc. I think it's important to say, of course, that in any case the fall of birth might affect these movements. But I think it's a subject that I think is a completely different type of conversation, or another way of talking, especially at this point where you say again that the funds are not secured. I don't know how different the Minister of Finance explains that they are insured in the resources of the state budget and that in a way that you will decide on the amount of those funds as parliamentary representatives. ... In fact, that's what this is about because you don't have this in front of you, then you'd actually see that in their portfolios, in the budget they have to have the means to implement these measures. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32740	Time. I ask you to discuss it after, time has passed by the Minister. Thank you. And the last replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here's my colleague Đurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32741	Here's from the second time briefly and again to refer to what the minister said. Yes, when it comes to the demographic problem, but then there's the migration movement that's actually attached to the demographic problem, and you said that, why would the legislator wait for everyone to go to the government? We're the legislator. But I will remind you that this legislator, if he has parts of that authority that are administrative if you want to be sub-capitated, is exactly the legislator. Where is this legislator and the administrative capacity, where it is also our practice that a part of that legislator, which can be called opposition, makes some solutions, and that these solutions are then accepted by the government in a democratic process. And not to say that this legislator, and you know it better than I do, because for many years you have been a representative in the Croatian Parliament, that this legislator has an office with 5, 7 or 10 deputies with 10 chairs that this legislator has no administrative support, that this legislator doesn't actually have a system behind him at all and that this legislator is in fact the most sub-capacitated part of certainly the three levers of the state government in the Republic of Croatia, and there may have been a chance that this legislator today is in a position in which such legislators are certainly not in most EU countries or EU 27. But that's that legislator's problem because he's who he is. And when it comes to whether or not we are in recession, let me just point out briefly that the state budget as a basic document of the state was brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and that most here confirmed it and that it envisions GDP growth in this year and in the coming years. Therefore, I think politics is clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32742	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, Minister. We don't? I thank the ministers. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. For today, we will continue at 9.30 tomorrow with the Final Proposal for the Gas Market Act. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-19-0.u32743	Proposal for a migration policy for the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2013 to 2015. The debate on the proposal is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a migration policy. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 83 votes in favour, 23 votes against and 6 abstentions have been adopted by the Republic of Croatia for the period 2013 to 2015, as proposed by the Proposer. Dear colleagues from the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament can continue the Plenary session of the Croatian Parliament with the item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on the gas market, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 284; You received the bill in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Emergency Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Economy. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Economy respected Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
