ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47657	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with Article 248. The Rules of Procedure and because of the fact that we are bombarded with different information and contradictory information in the public about the case of harmonisation with the legal property of the European Union and the law which is colloktically called lex Perkovic and yesterday we heard the views of the Government requesting a 20-minute recess for the HDZ Club session.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47658	I'm listening further. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47659	For the same reasons, the Croatian Labour Club is looking for a break of 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47660	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47661	As did the previous two, for the same reason, for Article 248, we are looking for a break in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47662	About the same subject?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47663	About the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47664	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47665	Thank you very much, Mr. President, a ten-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47666	Thank you very much. ... Cain, which club is yours, what's his name? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] [[Intruder: Independent.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47667	Independent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47668	Independent. Okay. National Minority Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47669	For the same reasons, the National Minority Representatives Club is looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47670	Okay. I'm setting a break for 10 minutes, that's enough, we have to work on the agenda. Thank you very much. Oh, 50, is that enough? That's enough. We're here at 9.50. Thank you very much. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] Let's see where the clubs stand. Let's get this straight. HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47672	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday we testified, I see even in some comments, the historic speech of the Prime Minister on the state of society and in the state that submitted the annual report to the Croatian Parliament. It is historically according to the new Rules of Procedure that you have brought and which has made possible what we have spoken about in the adoption of the Rules of Procedure, which is the full power of the political government over Parliament. We have witnessed this since yesterday from the fact that the time left for the government to present an annual report and the time left only to the clubs to say what they think about that report and even the time so complex was always in favour of the government so that the final word belonged to the Prime Minister and then instead of submitting a report to the body he expects some assessment of his report he presented his view of the situation and afterwards, and in the meantime, he got away from this Parliament because he had a lot of business. These are the results of the Rules of Procedure brought by the parliamentary majority. When we talked about the Rules of Procedure, we warned about both these anomalies and what was going to happen, it happened at the end of the line. What the Prime Minister said yesterday in his annual report, many of us haven't had a chance to comment, but we can say that we've heard a few things, and we've heard that he doesn't have a vision...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47673	Excuse me, colleague Davorin Mlakar. You didn't ask for a club break, stop his time, stop the club to discuss the report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia And you're arguing [[No, I'm not.]] At the very least, I find it politically incorrect. [[I'm not discussing his report.]] That's for your press conference, but you've announced that you'll be talking about something else... That's right, that's right, and I'd like to ask you to do your position here properly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47674	Mr. President, the Prime Minister also spoke of lex Perkovic, and I will speak too, and this introduction should have served to explain our views. So we heard that the Prime Minister has no vision, no plan and no solution to get the state out of a deep crisis, from a crisis that exists in the economy, which exists in internal politics, and that exists also in foreign policy. And that's why we called in our word today. We have also heard from the Prime Minister only one firm position that he has repeatedly repeated, which is that he will be even more firm in relations with the European Union, in negotiations with the European Commission and that he does not think about giving up on his views he has made several times on this so-called. the law or lex to Perkovic how often it is used. We have heard that he thinks that negotiations should continue and that there will be a solution. At the same time, we heard from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the First Vice-President of the Government that there is an agreement with the European Commission on how to get out of this crisis, the unremembered political crisis that Croatia has afforded by entering the European Union, and we still have no concrete answer as to what it will do, when and how Croatia will do, not prevent possible future damages but to reduce the damage that is already in its reputation, its credibility within the framework of the European Union. And for this reason, we have appeared as a club in a group of parliamentary deputies you have listed 53 in our proposal to suggest a possible simple and very fast solution to get out of this for Croatia unnecessary and extremely harmful positions, and therefore we have referred you to the procedure of the Law on Putting Off the Force of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters with the Member States of the European Union. That law is in the process. We suggest to the President of the Parliament to whom our proposal is addressed, that we put this law immediately on the agenda, to discuss it, to pass the law, to return to the positions we had in 2010, which are the ones that are fully in line with the European Commission and to at least reduce the damages caused for Croatia by this government's policy. When you look at the proposed agenda, then you'll see that from 87 points of the agenda the first 32 concerns the law that he proposed...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47675	Bring in the end, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47676	Will you give me the time you took of my intervention?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47677	We gave, we gave, it took time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47678	Well, then let's stick to the Rules of Procedure as well as yesterday, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47679	Then you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47680	32 points of the agenda are the laws proposed by the government. After this whole series, allow me this assessment, less relevant or less relevant points for Parliament's work, which are mainly reports by all possible agencies or bodies. And then after that, behind the 73rd, the fourth item of the agenda came bill proposals but not proposed by the government. I'm saying this because, of the 32 laws, only 10 laws on your proposal go into regular procedure, everyone else is being re-proposed by an emergency procedure. And I appeal to my SDP colleagues this is an opportunity to show your honesty and credibility as well. [[Adversity President: Finish a respected colleague.]] So to agree with our proposal, discuss the proposed law, put it on the agenda immediately, discuss and reduce the damage to the Republic of Croatia. [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like you to react to other speakers as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47681	Always the same. Thank you very much. The next club is the club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47682	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. If we hadn't adopted a Rules of Procedure which we can call an act on the protection of the characters and works of Zoran Milanovic today, we certainly wouldn't have asked for a break, because we would have solved many things yesterday. It'd be a dialogue. We had a monologue yesterday, a few people on behalf of the parties, a monologue Mr. Milanovic who was not concerned with reality, and in the end, instead of answering the questions we asked on behalf of the clubs Mr. Milanovic was not worthy of answering any questions. But he had a need to say the opposition didn't make any suggestions. Be careful, the opposition did not propose how the government, not a single point was ever adopted here in parliament when it was proposed by the opposition, and now suddenly the prime minister is calling for the Croatian public because he is planting that the opposition has no solution. The opposition has a solution, and the best solution is for this government to move. That's the best solution. Mr. Prime Minister said lex Perkovic defends the sovereignty and dignity of the Republic of Croatia. The hypocrisy of the enté potency. The dignity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia defends the rights of citizens. 2 and a half million Croatian citizens are either in debt slavery or on the threshold of debt slavery, and we will defend dignity and sovereignty with lex Perkovic. Dignity and sovereignty are defended by the sovereignty of financial, economical, and at the same time when he said that Croatia will no longer be in debt to our finance minister travels to America with a merciless prayer of billions of dollars. It defends sovereignty. Not by protecting dozens of people who, by blood or by order, have dirtyed their hands and now the nation must suffer for it. Why did we join this initiative? We are Croatian Labourists and Mrs. Jadranka Kosor were the only ones who voted against this law. We're consistent, we're consistent with that. Therefore, we were the only ones in the assembly who voted against this law and we feel that this law is harmful, we believe that this law does not benefit the Republic of Croatia. I said yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister strengthens his muscles with the law, arguing with the EU about non-essential matters of Croatia. What's he doing that for? I asked a question yesterday three times in the statement why Mr. Prime Minister didn't answer. But he said you didn't give me a proposal. We've made a proposal, give up a stubborn fight that's not good. From a country that has been fighting for 10 years to join the EU, we have become a non-sympathetic country only because the Prime Minister is intruding, as the Prime Minister stubbornly stands at some points that are not clear to anyone. He didn't explain. Yesterday, he misinformed the Croatian public by claiming that lex Perkovic was in the protection of Croatian defenders. Even some believe it. Croatian defenders protect themselves in a different way. Croatian defenders protect themselves from going into debt slavery, Croatian defenders protect themselves with a better life. The state protects itself by having financial sovereignty, not slavery. And what does the Croatian Prime Minister say? We'll give all the banks, we'll sell out everything. We'll have a name, a coat of arms, a flag and an anthem, and we'll be very sovereign, our own on our own. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, give up on this, do not waste energy, do not waste the reputation of Croatia because it is not your reputation but the reputation of all Croatian citizens and it is the future of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We will still need to cooperate with the Germany you turned your back on. And we do not believe that with this attitude both Germany and other countries submit to the Republic of Croatia and wipe the floor. The floor is wiped out with Croatia by you. You put us in a bird reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47683	Thank you, Your Honor. HDSSB club and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47684	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, what we heard from the prime minister on several occasions that this law would protect Croatian defenders came up with a silent undetected equalization of Croatian defenders with the refugees. That's right, exactly how they work and operate in that age of communism and socialism, and that's not so. Croatian defenders have nothing to do with the dislex Perkovic. I say dis lex because in Wikipedia, read those who are not medics, so they don't know what dyslexia is saying that it's not an intelligence disorder but it's a learning, reading and screaming disorder. Why do I say that, dis lex? Well, obviously, someone was not reading Chapter 23, or EU arrest warrant. He didn't read it, he didn't understand it, and he can't read it right or he can't spell it right. So then two days, three days before the EU's entry, there was a vote by the parliamentary majority that is rebelling here, so on. Lex Perkovic. Although I would like it the most, and it is on the trail and it is very certain that these days it will come to the ex Perkovic. So, taking this case off the agenda. This is the only place and the only time I've got these five minutes to talk about it. We also had on the Committee on European Affairs a debate on a number of points because the Committee on European Affairs did not find it appropriate to put this item on the agenda, which really concerns relations with the European Commission, relations with the European Union. And then I insisted on putting on an ad act or lex or ex Perkovic as quickly as possible. But until the session, the new session of the European Affairs Committee did not take place even though the conclusion was that it was no later than last Thursday. This is to say one disqualification of the validity and value of the newly created Committee on European Affairs, which should really be considered because it really is European affairs. We don't have to decide, it's the government who decides but to discuss it is our right as members of the newly created committee. What has contributed to all this and to the creation of this? And this is what has been done in all countries of the former communist regime, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Poland, Hungary, East Germany, Macedonia, Serbia, is a lustration. The lustration in Croatia has never been carried out, nor has that L of lustration. And the lustration says former members of the secret service, UDBA, KOS and others cannot take public positions in the newly created states and newly created services. Unfortunately, either those members of these UDBAs, KOS and others or their sons have taken high positions in this country since it was created. And that's the problem. And it actually exists in them today and it works today. And I'd like to express my suspicions to all the citizens who approach me and say it's actually the work of the same ones. This is a rejection of a European arrest warrant. Will Germany and Europe conduct lustration for us? God, at least that's when those who decide, who've decided all these 20 years, either didn't dare or didn't want to, because maybe they had one in their ranks. I'm saying, maybe if someone didn't sue me. But for a spoken word in the House I don't answer Therefore, it is true that these secret services were persecuted and killed by perhaps more Croats than in World War II after the war of '45. the years from which, therefore, were from BiH and Croatia, and wherever they were on this globe, they found and killed them. [[Intruder: How who.]] From Djurkovic, Busic and everyone else, Jelic and I don't know who. And thank God that it is, I hope, too, that those who have come to power have also realized that they are in dyslexia and that Europe may finally be part of what some of us do not know and some of them know to reveal the door to all those misdeeds and crimes that have been committed. And Croatian defenders, fearing Croatian defenders and the responsibility of Croatian defenders, this is some fresh cat about the tail of Mr Milanovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47685	Thank you, too. It is up to the club of respected representatives of Jadranka Kosor and the Civil Party. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47686	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I reported in fact that I would continue a topic that I spoke about yesterday about the Report by the Prime Minister, which refers to dignity, the dignity of the Croatian Parliament. This is Parliament, this is the House, this is the place where we have brought amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia 2010, the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU countries, and this is the House, in a different way, but nevertheless, the most representative body in which the law was amended, i.e. the conditions that we agreed on when we concluded on 24 June 2011 negotiations and signed on 9 December 2011. So this is where the law was changed 3 days before EU entry. We talked about it a lot yesterday, and that was also referred to by the Prime Minister, but no direction or indication of the direction the government is going to take and whether or not the crisis has confessed to who or does not end, so yesterday is not indicated. Today, the portals are screaming the end of the crisis, and it's all settled. That's what we who were awake late yesterday evening heard in the announcement of the third Croatian daily, so it's all over, it's all agreed that we MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament here where it's decided, here where in the final and ratified Croatian agreement we have no idea. So we don't know anything. We're not named in any way. I am, of course, pleased if that is the case, of course we will see in which direction this compromise could go. But I am deeply disappointed that yesterday we did not get an answer to the question of whether the crisis will be resolved, whether the law will change and when it will happen. And of course if Croatia is going to some new negotiations on some new conditions then we should know there are those who decide whether to vote yes or no. It's a Mr. President topic that we should always talk about. So if the day after the Prime Minister spoke to us on behalf of the Government and told us a lot of things, without in any way indicating how he would be resolved even though we asked the company and a lot of questions about the crisis which needlessly burdened Croatia at the beginning of our membership, then it is not good first of all for the Croatian Parliament for the Croatian Parliament for the Croatian Parliament. I will repeat once again, only our club, hence independent MPs and the Croatian Civil Party, submitted an amendment when amendments to the law were voted here and the 2002 restriction was introduced. Thank you again to the Croatian Labourists who voted in favour of the amendment and only our club submitted amendments and additions to that law and that is the fact. We'll see what happens in the days to come. We will, of course, announce this on behalf of the club, insist that this debate is being held because, ultimately, if the Government and the European Commission agree on something, they will have to make amendments and amendments to the Law on judicial co-operation. So we're going to insist on having a united debate. It's not good, it's bad and it's bad practice that he's going to negotiate with Mrs. Reading on such key issues as it's not good to mark her as an official. She is the Vice-President of the European Commission, so it is not good to inform ourselves about this in the media after the Prime Minister has submitted a comprehensive report on the state of the country where this is one of the problems that we are constantly looking at. And you will see how the debate will only be debated and how it will be a painful and difficult debate to open when the government finally gives in and when it proposes to amend and supplement that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47687	Thank you, too. It is up to the Club of Independent Lists of Representatives and Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47688	Honorable President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yesterday we heard the annual report on Thursday we'll hear the guidelines of economic policy. But let's let it go now, let's say something about Lex Perkovic. Let's wait 11.00 p.m. Minister of Justice and Mrs. Reding should meet us in Brussels. A press conference was called for 12:00. Yes, the work is that I read it from the media today, obviously one compromise, but the matter will be smoothed up on the basis of an agreement between Mr Milanovic and Barroso. I think HDZ is precisely because of such a compromise that is likely to be achieved should be happy. But what's the point? Croatia was unnecessarily pressed in my court, so we simply see from the plane that it is. When Croatia said it would match its "Lex Perkovic" with Czech "Lex Perkovic" from 1.1 next year and then Europe gives way. Smart enough, and Croatia said 100% right there, but I agree Croatia is neither Austria nor Germany nor Slovenia nor the Czech Republic and the universal principle should be that we are equal. That should be Europe. What is permitted, though, to God is not allowed, I agree with the ox. But Croatia must also maintain its own dignity if we want to be called country. If we're going to judge the married, we need to get rid of the outdated but we need to judge everyone and whoever shot the immigrants and those who killed the Yugoslav diplomats who killed the union leaders, the Rabbit family, and so on. Judge everyone. Where? In Croatia. What bothers me today is that some Luburic is now starting to represent nothing less than a country fighter. What is amazing is that HDZ went after the hand to reverse the thesis that Milanovic is the one protecting the refugees, not being Tudjman and Sušak, to whom Perkovic was the head of the SIS or assistant defence minister. Well, then what did you not ask for his extradition? But let us leave his judgment. And who didn't want the lustration, so he didn't want what I know, Franjo Tudjman. But I answered my word just to give you two examples. Austria refused when we were talking about a European arrest warrant, meaning it refused to arrest former KGB member Mikhail Golavatov, who was wanted by Lithuania for assaulting a TV tower in Vilnius in January of '91 when more than 600 people were killed and injured. Reding then explained that Austria did not have to carry out the arrest warrant because it only carried out arrest warrants after 2002. But there is another worse case when Germany rejected a European arrest warrant for one Nazi criminal Faber, whom the Netherlands has simply sought for decades. The Dutch authorities did not give up, and I hope to quote them because I do not have time "to introduce a European arrest warrant in 2002. By means of this legal mechanism in 2003, they tried to give Faber, then the third on the list of most wanted Nazi criminals, Centre Simon Wiezenthal, but it didn't go easy on them." Smart I'd say just enough. I agree that sovereignty is defended by economic power, growth, economic, social success, but also all the time simply when we don't want to admit what world we live in. Well, half the former government is in jail, not in the bird's reserve. And we expect a rebirth in this country within a year or a year and a half. Well, it just isn't, so let's be realistic if it's possible. Well, that's not possible. Linic's going to say five billion kunas. Yeah, for what? To pay back the interest. And next year we have 2.5 billion kuna interest more to pay than last year, almost 13 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47689	Thank you very much. And the last Club of National Minority Representatives in the Croatian Assembly and the Honorable Representative Nedzad Hodzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47690	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. When the team plays Croatian basketball, football or let everyone else cheer for it and we want to win even when it doesn't play well. Then let's forget about the clashes between Bad Blue Boys, Torcida, Armada and other cheerleading groups. The prime minister of this country, the Foreign Ministry, our representatives in the European Parliament but all of us sitting in the Assembly are the political team of this country to be supported and when one of us does not think that we are making such good moves. This country has had it under quotes before, yesterday we heard it here, the great leaders, the mistakes of all governments paid for by these citizens, and will pay for the government's possible mistakes. But around this law that loses a great deal of energy, I ask you to wait and see the final outcome and then comment on the possible consequences or not the existence of these consequences for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But what I came forward today, so I really want to remind you honestly so just as a member of the national minority who in a certain way this country, this country that mine is also looking a little off the side. It is the impression of a colleague and colleague that he has not finished II in this country. World War I. The impression is that the country is still living in the former Yugoslavia. And I will remind you that our responsibility for the lives of citizens in this country is in the sovereign independent Republic of Croatia. That's why I invite you to bury those political axes, to help this government out of the crisis as soon as possible. For the situation currently in which the Republic of Croatia and all its citizens, in my opinion, is the least to blame is this government headed by Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u47691	I really must be minimally obvious from the President's desk. The first thing I want for the sake of the Croatian public to point out is that the democratic wealth of the political, business opportunities of the Croatian Parliament was expressed this morning. So there is no saying that someone cannot state their position in the Croatian Parliament whether the topic is on the agenda or not. The second thing I'm saying is that the views of clubs are democratically different and that the views of clubs and should be in a different democracy and do not ask anyone to support the government if it does not suit it. And thirdly, the Croatian Parliament passed all the laws of Croatia and the one that was just said about it, thus the Croatian Parliament only confirmed its constitutional position and did not question its constitutional position. And fourthly, according to the Constitution and under the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and of the Croatian Government, the Croatian Government represents and represents Croatian interests in European bodies. And in the end, it is legitimately the right of clubs not to support the government and to oppose the government's policies, which is why we are in a multi-party democratic parliament. Thank you very much. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're going to work on a set agenda. It is now up to you: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Construction and Circular of Ministrys and Other Central Authorities of the State Administration, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 469; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. This shall be in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the Proposal for a Law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You've received a report. Would the applicant's representative please further explain the proposal? Yeah. The Honorable Minister of Management Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48601	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. These amendments to the law want the State Office for Trade Policy to join the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs therefore, because a synergy of the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the State Office for Trade Policy has been established in practice so far since the existence of the office. In particular, it concerns action in the field of bilateral economic relations, promotion and protection of trade relations between the Republic of Croatia, coordination of the dual-purpose export control system, harmonisation of multilateral economic policies, participation in multilateral trade negotiations and activities related to other multilateral, economic organisations. In addition, given that a new Law on the management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia has been adopted, one article of these amendments is proposed to bring the State Property Management Office in line with that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48602	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and the respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48603	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Before us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of Ministrys and other central bodies of the State Administration, and here is the Minister that took one minute to explain the changes. It did not surprise me that it only took him one minute because it was neither guilty nor obliged to defend something that was not his hand's work, but it was probably done at the request and searching for some others who were no longer in Croatia's government, and I will explain exactly what it was about. However, it does not take responsibility from either the minister or the government. I would even dare say that such a bill speaks best of this government, of its incompetence, of its ignorance, of the character of this government. This law is about the establishment of the State Office for Trade Policy at the beginning of the term of office of the government, so a year and a half ago the State Office for Trade Policy was established. It was a big innovation, a big strategy, part of Plan 21. It has been 20 months, now the same state office is being abolished, i.e. it stops working and joins the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. What can we read from that? From this we can read that when a decision was made on the establishment, the foundation of this state office was not done as a thoughtful act, as part of a strategy, as a plan, but rather an ad hoc was made, with the aim of satisfying the ambitions and interests of certain people. And that is why today we have the situation we have, and that is why today the minister says, beware, in practice so far, the synergy of the work of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and the State Office for Trade Policy has been observed, as well as overlapping competences in a number of areas. Well, Mr. Minister, you probably knew that a year and a half ago because here and you define these responsibilities and you say that this is primarily in the sphere of bilateral and economic relations, that it is promoting and protecting the trade relations of the Republic of Croatia, coordination of the dual-use export control system, harmonisation of multilateral, economic policies, etc. You knew in the beginning that the responsibilities of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs were indeed not necessary to establish this office. I am even better able to further explain the legislator of the law that says the accession of the State Office for Trade Policy of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs would also allow staff strengthening of the ministry that is necessary in view of the project of economic diplomacy and of the planned task of coordinating the working group for the internationalisation of the Croatian economy. So what's this about? A new state office was established, it was received by new people, it closed after a year and a half, and all these people moved to where, to diplomacy. They'll get diplomatic status, they didn't pass the tenders they needed for someone to be in diplomacy, they'll still be similar, probably party people in an indirect way to get into diplomacy. Do we really need that? Do we really think that this is the work and order that the Prime Minister is talking about? Do we really think it's transparent, do we really think it's democratic, do we really think that this is how we promote work and standards in the Croatian state administration, in the Croatian administration? Of course not. You here show these changes to the law that you neither had a vision nor knew what you were doing at the beginning of the term of office. You've established... The representative is not polite, to say the least, because she throws away and the President of the Croatian Parliament when she throws herself on the other side then reacts, and now be silent as is understandable in view of the party discipline. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48604	No, I'm sorry to interrupt. That is not true, for you are the most common person, the most common representative who throws from the bench, so I do not warn you. I didn't warn you one more time, I'm sorry, so now I have no argument to warn you, I'll do it next time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48605	You warned me the last time you took my word for it when you made it impossible for me to speak...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48606	We won't discuss it anymore. That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48607	Unlike all other representatives and prime ministers, I repeat to you that you are objective, neither are you the correct president of the Croatian Parliament, but this is not important at all now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48608	Dear fellow, these are simple disqualifications, not argumentation, and it's an honor, not what I'm saying. It's an honor to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48609	Croatian citizens will assess...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48610	That's right, not you. ... Not you, mate, not you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48611	Croatian citizens will assess how you hold meetings of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48612	It's your time, keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48613	I've read an excellent comment where they even call you the Prime Minister's butler. That's not what I said. That's what one journalist said. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48614	My colleague, should I read what they say about you? ... /The noise in the hall./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, no, this is even less correct. I won't really, because I'd be ashamed to say the qualifications I've read about you. I'd be really embarrassed, that would embarrass me very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48615	Please, nice. And this just shows how you work. You're trespassing again and you're not letting us come to this debate, and the point is that your government, that the ruling majority has no idea how to run the state, that neither had a plan to give famous 21 nor had a strategy because then it would not establish such offices that cost the Croatian state 15 million kuna. We'll say the same thing about that. Who's going to answer? Who's in charge of 50 million kunas given to the Center of the Bank? Who's responsible for the 15 million kunas spent here? Will someone be responsible for that 15 million kuna? You have money for new phones, you have money for new cars, you can give the Bank 50 million kuna, and at the same time 7 billion kuna is missing in the Croatian budget. What kind of honest people are you? You don't care about Croatia, you don't care about Croatian citizens. The only thing you know is hypocritical neglect, is acting, is avoiding the commitments you've taken. But you can see that. That's what people recognize! It's not nice enough to talk and pretend to be nice, honest, moral. The works speak of you! The works speak of you! Yeah, yeah, yeah. There's people in court. It doesn't matter. [[Let him speak. Please!]] It's hard to hear the truth, and that's why Mr. Jurević, I understand that you're going out. It's not easy for you. [[/Intruder President: Please release the representative. Mr. Representative Jurević, calm down. Okay. Calm down. Go outside and take a walk. Thank you very much. Here you go.]] It's not easy for you to talk about a court and a party because there is a lex Perkovic to save yourself from coming to court. But a little bit, you are a follower of the Croatian Communist Union. You inherited and sold their property. But you inherited everything your predecessors did, what they ordered, and you know it all. The verdict in the German court already says who ordered the murder of Djurekovic, and we will see how this trial of lex Perkovic will take place, and then we will all laugh happily together I didn't even turn away from the subject, you and your party friends were off topic. [[The Incursion President: Return to the topic of Honorable Representative.]] So I tell you next. [[/Adversity President: All others are guilty except for you. It's all the others' fault.]] With this bill change, you've spent 15 million kuna on the state. Is someone gonna answer? You showed that you didn't have a plan and strategy because you started an office that you closed after 20 months. You've also shown that in an undemocratic and immoral way you're going to take care of the personnel you've accumulated in that office, an unnecessary office, and now you're going to transfer them to diplomacy. Now shut up and you need to keep your mouth shut because that's what you should be ashamed of, and that's what the New List wrote on May 23rd. You could have read it then. He knew everything about this new leaf. That's interesting. At that time, Novi List writes that the office will be abolished, that employees will be taken care of at the foreign ministry. They claim even now that it is written in the newspaper Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament that the office was founded so that former Deputy Prime Minister of Foreign and European Policy Neven Mimica would still have operatives to rely on in the daily work for which his longtime associate, Denis Cajo, led the office. When Vesna Pusic won the vice-presidential post in the government, and thus co-ordination of foreign policy, the office lost some sense because she had the entire ministry behind her as foreign minister. Another contribution to the abolition of the office is the informal information that Cajo is leaving with Mimica in Brussels when he officially becomes Commissioner of the European Commission. And watch it all happen that way. You already knew in May. So, an office was set up tentically for one man's purposes only, and you've all raised your hands for it and now it's like nothing happened. Now you're laughing here, now you're having fun because you don't care that 15 million kunas have been spent as much as you don't care that 50 million kunas have gone to the center of the bank. But we're reading here today in the paper that the DORH has also launched the investigation and the BUSKO, so we'll see who these 50 million kunas were intended for when they were paid out of the state budget for the Center of the Bank without talking about phones, cars. There are dozens, hundreds of millions of kunas, and you're missing seven billion in your budget. And you're the authority responsible for law and order? You're not like that and time is more and more showing what you really are. So, as far as this law is concerned, we won't support it because I explained why it bothers us. I invite you to think for yourself about the way you work, to look yourself in the mirror and to examine whether the decisions you make are in favour of Croatian citizens and not just you and your party friends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48616	Let's go to the replicas. The first replica and respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48617	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is a colleague who rightly claimed that it was in fact an illegal taking care of party personnel with a decision like this that probably the majority of the assembly would vote on. In fact, the fact that people who were employed in this office will go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in which people usually come from public tenders, based on certain conditions, on the basis of certain knowledge needed for such a ministry that is very important, very significant in the presentation of Croatian interests. These people will not be based on these criteria but on the basis of a political decision by the ruling majority from such an office that was obviously unnecessary, which was created to provide certain party personnel will be transferred to the foreign ministry. To make the matter worse on the agenda of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is also the appointment of certain people to very significant positions such as ambassadorial posts or places of general consulates. So this same ministry suggests that a general consul be actually a person who is returning from retirement, who was 67 years old, who was already a general consul in that country specifically in Germany during the 1980s, which is related to this law that was discussed today in the introduction. Look at the wonders against him are of course the people of the Croats who live in the area. For clear reasons and clear how the party takes care of its own.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48618	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48619	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you've well seen fellow Matusic, except for these things that we're talking about today, there are a whole series of examples that we're going to talk about in the days that come in which we can see what is happening today not only in individual ministries but also in those who should represent Croatia in the world, so in diplomacy that has raised its standards high. We remember what we had with the president about the appointment of ambassadors, and now no one is asking the question of who is doing everything in Croatian diplomacy, not only at the level of the ambassadors, we have phenomenal pearls in the last year, but now it has begun to humanise at lower levels beyond the competition and in this way, as it seems today, undemocratically, in a treacherous Byzantine way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48620	Thank you very much. A new replica and a respected representative, Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48621	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, of course, you mentioned in your introduction and speech the unnecessary formation of the State Trade Office 20 months ago. We know that all these jobs have previously been done at the Department of Trade of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and a phantom office has been formed but from the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs no one has moved into that office but are, of course, employed by new people, 40 new people who are now moving into foreign affairs and will be, of course, as you yourself have said, future diplomats. However, you also mentioned that this happened 20 months ago, now they see that something of some kind of experience has not proved to be of quality but only 2 months ago, so in 706.2013, the Law on Trade has been amended where it is said that the State Office for Trade Policy as the competent authority for the implementation of trade policy will by special act prescribe the ways and application of the directly applicable EU regulations, etc. So now that Trade Office is being abolished in the 9th month, and three months ago you gave it the authority to have relations with the EU and the regulation that regulates the area. So it once again confirms the confusion, incompetence, and actually one great sloppyness and sloppyness of this entire set of furniture that is now in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48622	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48623	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I'm joining these remarks and I'd like to add something else. In fact, today we and Mr. Minister are talking about two important reforms. It's one reform concerning the state administration and I understand that there's a minister of the administration but it's also about the management of the Foreign Office and I don't understand that there's anyone from the Foreign Ministry. Because it is about transferring important activities into the work of the ministry. In a way, reforming the Foreign Office of our diplomacy. We haven't heard anything about that. What will be the place and role of this department within the Republic of Croatia's foreign policy system, which will be its relationship with other units within the ministry, what will its relationship to the diplomatic and consular network be? That's not a word. In every country, such a move would be a major political issue. So, the State Trade Office goes to the Foreign Office. We are the only ones here in Croatia who have heard nothing about it. They said, the minister said in an explanation that practice has shown some synergy. What synergy? What are the evaluations of the work and contribution of this office within, say, the economic orientation or the export orientation of the Republic of Croatia? There's no one from the economy. I said there's no one from foreign policy. This is an ad hoc solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48624	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48625	I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Yes, to my colleague Bozinovic, it is clear that there is no strategy, I clearly think to everyone if an office is set up and in 17, 18 months it is already known that it will close perfectly clearly that there is no strategy. But we can also have little understanding because there is no economy that this office will represent, because the economy is in increasingly poor shape and how economic diplomacy will be built when there is nothing to represent. So the key problem stems from the poor economic results from the total failure of this government from the sinking of GDP and growing unemployment, from the lack of investment and then this is a spin that we are looking at practically on a daily basis and we are now going to strengthen economic diplomacy and suddenly a miracle will happen in Croatia. Of course they won't and of course the citizens recognize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48626	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48627	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you asked your colleague a good question, and that's a question of who's going to answer. So then I'd like to ask you and your colleagues who is responsible for the imperceptibility and stolen future of my generation which has not been done in the last two years? who will be responsible for the accumulated deficit that hasn't been accumulated in the last two years? who will be responsible for irresponsible borrowing that hasn't been accumulated in the last two years? Who's going to be responsible for a big corrupt machine that hasn't been created in the last two years? It's hard to hear the truth, pal. You said the works of speech yourself, yours said, I think yours said. Your party's in court, the president of the party is your ex in court. And in the end, you keep calling on the people, so I'm going to end up with one people's wisdom, but I'm not going to be vulgar, "Who about what HDZ is about honesty?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48628	Reply to the replica, respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48629	I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So that saying concerns you because you are constantly moralizing, you are the ones who are constantly pretending to be honest, that you have had to, and look at your actions, look, I will not now appoint some of your fellow MPs sitting here in the other bench, right now are also in the process, so one colleague behind you, he has a verdict already. So you've got a lot of butter on your head. But you've got one guard, we're only honest in our own terms is that you're better than the other. No, you're not. And as for these charges at the expense of HDZ, we say and confess, in our ranks were those who committed crimes and was an interesting fellow during the HDZ government during the HDZ majority, they were crimes and prosecuted. I wonder if, during your ruling majority and during your government, the crimes committed by your party colleague will also be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48630	New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48631	How do you replicate what's said behind that pay phone? I can't keep my mouth shut about that butler. It should be remembered that Mr. Sanader's trial, Mr. Calmeta's testimony when asked, and he said that in several interviews whether he opposed Mr. Sanader's decisions, he said no one dared. At the time of the HDZ at the time of Sanader and Tudjman, there were no major butlers even bigger butlers than the one at the court of Henry IV, so don't pay any respects, and he is a very incorrect colleague for honoring the president, I don't think that's the level of debate in the Croatian Parliament. And as for this honesty, the biggest loan to the Kukuriku coalition when it was in the pre-election campaign was that political correctness and honesty. And I agree with my colleagues at HDZ, it's melting. You're having more and more affairs. When they asked the first Deputy Prime Minister what you were doing, he said we're not HDZ. You're worse at it. They did it much smarter, more subtlely. You're still taking pictures today, you're only going to spend four years on staffing, you're just hiring. I think everything you walk you hired your own. What you're doing with the State Trade Office right now is unfair, it's unfair to all those who need to be in the contest chosen. That honesty melts from day to day. And all you do in that is all those offices and agencies, so that's something that's a fantasy that you guys invent after that. Therefore, your economic results are slowly melting, so you will soon be leveled.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48632	Reply to the replica, respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48633	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Yes, I used the hard word, however, also to us from HDZ and I am being fought with heavy weapons by the President of the Croatian Parliament and we are being prevented from speaking. So it's normal that we have to defend ourselves. And let's not mix the cause and the consequence, is it because we're not treated evenly? I will remind you of the current morning in which we unfortunately had two minutes to respond only one minute, so already at the beginning we gave deliberate or unintentioned rules to the damages of the MPs to the government. Secondly, when I spoke in that minute, the President of the Parliament came to me, and he wouldn't let me make up for it. Today, during the debate, I was also thrown to the table again, and I received no protection from the President's desk, however, I received criticism. Well, I have the right to defend myself. What are we here for? It's a punching bag. You've all learned that HDZ is the bag you're going to beat on without getting back. And you colleagues when you mention Tudjman and Sanader, so I hear about your website that it's not very democratic and that the leader is very authoritative and that you listen to it. Well, we all have our own inside party problems, but we're not going to beat one by one. It's past time. You could have beaten us when we were in power and the only one exposed because you were an opposition, and now you can see a new power has come. The rules are the same if not worse. Their president has gone into conflict with the European Commission and they're silent, the whole public, the President of the Republic everyone knows they're wrong, and they're all nodding. They do much more damage to Croatia than they can understand at all, I am most sorry. There are those who understand, but there are those who don't understand at all and think that with that nod, laughter does good to Croatia, and you are very wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48634	Again, I was taken into consideration needlessly, needlessly completely. I won't defend myself, there's no reason. Sometimes it suits me when some people attack me, it brings political points. And I'll stay at it, don't defend me, just attack me. Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48635	Thank you very much. My colleague Jandroković in many of your right but I only wanted to look back on what you said that the State Office for Trade Policy has in its activity many overlaps with the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Affairs. But you forgot to say that here with the State Office for Trade Policy there is also the State Office for the Management of State Property which also has a lot... and jurisdiction that is entirely identical to this for trade policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you can actually see from that that I don't say uselessness or the creation of an office, the state office, the central office that was working, spent 15 million people, 40 people hired and what he did. There's something else I'd like to say. In fact, there are many things in the jurisdiction of this office that actually do not belong to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So, not only do they overlap, they also have those things that are completely illogical, they don't completely match. So, the establishment says and runs the state property register, that same office for trade policy. And that's what he says, cultural goods, agricultural and forest land. What does the Foreign Ministry have to do with establishing a register of agricultural and forest land? And a number of other things, but I don't have time to tell you, so when I say it, I will.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48636	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48637	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Jandrokovicu would be ashamed of me if I were you after this debate. You who robbed this country when the party's president, the top leader, sold our national treasures to the INA in elite Zagreb restaurants, you clapped at him. Your party should be prohibited by law for the benefit of this country. No government, Mr. President, has done to Mr. Jandrokovic what the government of Ivo Sanader has done. It is a government that will remain remembered in the Croatian people as the historical government that robbed its own people. And you have no right to refer to the President of the Parliament because there is no more tolerable President of the Parliament in the history of him. And that's a lot of you, and you're aware of that. [[I don't need to be defended.]] You throw forever from the bench, he never warned you. He never gave you a warning and today's political points, today you are trying to win political points at attacking the Croatian Parliament's top man. I'd be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48638	Replica response, respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48639	Dear colleague, you will be ashamed very soon when Mr. Perkovic's trial takes place, so you will discover why you should be ashamed, you probably do not know or conceal but very soon you will see who is actually a party to be banned. That time is just coming and then we'll talk a little differently when there are some things that you'll find very uncomfortable about. As far as INA's concerned, you sold management rights. It's the same thing you forgot, it's the same one... which you simply placed and you had nothing to do with INA, so who gave management to the Hungarians but SDP and your government? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who gave it to you? Well, it's amazing how you want to undo some things. Now, now, I'm going to tell you something that you'll be very interested in. And you all keep your mouth shut and smile again. Your representative Ivan Racan wrote two days ago that you do not know what sources of funding are and what are the amounts of funds that enter the party for funding within the party elections in the city of Zagreb. That's not what HDZ said, that's what Ivan Racan said. You don't know who's funding you or how much you spend in those intra-party... I expect the basis of this declaration by the competent state institution to check what the SDP City Committee and the whole party is about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm also interested in when you sold Mr. Radman accidentally today to the director of Croatian Radio Television Hotel in Slovenia, where did the money end? Where's the contract? Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament you then ordered from Strasbourg not to arrive now because you have some important obligations and that you will respond when you return. You came back two months ago and don't say anything about it. Where are the money dear friends from the SDP? Where's your money? It was the people's property you took in and then sold out. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48640	Thank you very much. A new replica of Đurjica Sumrak's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48641	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear fellow, here's what you're talking about: 40 people who don't move, you're talking about phones, they did, they got every single phone call, I guess this government is going to come to them. Then you were talking about cars, she did buy herself new cars by the government, fast, to move from a dead end, but you weren't talking about anything. When you mentioned the Bank Center, the calls were FIMI-MEDIA. Dear counterpart Jandroković, you and I are from Zagreb and some other representatives, Holding. Well FIMI MEDIA is a rainworm compared to the thieving in Holding. Holding is a source and a skill in financing SDP. Holding is something that's really embarrassing for a complete SDP. It's how to extract the city of Zagreb, what to do. And it was all in the hands of the SDP and the partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48642	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the replicas, Davorin Mlakar, the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48643	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I really don't understand what you're wondering. You were amazed by a wandering government and within two years founded and then closed or stopped working on the basis of its regulations some of the services that it had established in the previous period. So why are you surprised when that government at first destroyed the ministries and everything that was carrying some part of the professionals in the ministries, dropped one, two or three classes lower to bring its people and then let those people work for the benefit of these ministries? What's more devastating than that is the fact that here's a young colleague from the SDP that with his grisly and rudeness I can provoke some other debate and I'll address myself again with all due respect to the President of the Parliament, we'd expect you to calm down the tensions because we're talking here to all of us that we've robbed, that we're criminals, that was your pre-election style before you formed a government full of such angry people who are now going to use their mandates to calculate ourselves in this way. You can subtly and less subtly take the word, you do it quite subtlely, Mr. President, and mostly react to every speech and my speech today at the beginning of the session, so I would ask you to try to move a little towards objectivity, not always look on the left side, but also allow us to speak at least under the same conditions as the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48644	Thank you for everything. Replica response, respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48645	Yes, I agree with you, colleague Mlaka, this kind of atmosphere in the assembly does not produce opposition. Such an atmosphere in the assembly is produced by those who do not accept the equality of all MPs. We have seen that the amendments of the Rules of Procedure have also gone in the direction of favouring the executive government, the Government. We had this ridiculous debate yesterday about an annual report that neither has a discussion nor can be pollemized. At the end of it all comes after he wasn't even Prime Minister and then tells everyone his final letter. So it is not true parliamentaryism and those who have made such decisions, those who implement them take responsibility for what is happening today with democracy and parliamentaryism in Croatia. And the fact is, it's a SDP strategy, not since yesterday. Whenever we touch their sins, whenever we point to the government's poor work, whenever we criticize what everyone sees, what we're finally here and elected, then the charges are on Sanader's account, at the expense of the HDZ. HDZ paid its price politically in the elections. As you said, against some of our members there are procedures and that is the price we have paid, both political and human and moral. But you don't admit your sins, your tactics are different. You refuse to discuss the mistakes you make, you refuse to discuss the terrible things your predecessors and the Union of Communists of Croatia have done. You just want to cover it with a sheet like it doesn't exist and there are ghosts of the past coming back. Lex Perkovic is the spirit that will come out of that vessel now, and it will be very difficult for you, very uncomfortable, and your party will have inconceivable consequences of what will be part of the process against all those who committed murder at the time of communism.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48646	Thank you very much. Time's up. A new replica and respected representative of Hrvoje Nekic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48647	President of the Parliament, Minister. Comrade Jandrokovic, I really must agree with you that the money in the country is missing, but the public knows from before, and we must remind her constantly. The missing money, the same money that ended up in black funds, in black bags, and it's known whose black funds were and whose black bags were. They were yours and your colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48648	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48649	Well, we solved HDZ, you know everything about HDZ, the whole public knows. There's truth, there's what's blown up. But I'm going to tell you now the 200 million you've spent in the last few months, which you've spent or on your standard and comfort, unlike all the other citizens who lose it or spend it on irresponsible management. One is Cališkan, which you gave guarantees to, the state gave 5m euros in guarantees for land and DIOKI management, 5m euros went to the wind. 37.5 million kuna. 50 million Kuna Centerbanka, 85, 15 million of this state office that we are discussing today, 100 million kunas, telephones and cars over 200 million kunas, the government of your Kukuriku coalition led by your prime minister and the first vice president threw it into the wind, 200 million kuna. Well, you're the one who's accusing me. The Fimi Media case is 30 and something million kuna. Look at everything that's happened, add it up and compare it to this 200 million kuna, and you've been able to do huge damage to the state budget and to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in a year and a half.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48650	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister of Management Arsen Bauk, on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48651	I thank Mr. President, as Mr. Mlakar said subtlely, he's gone. I'm gonna move a little bit away from this interesting debate and get back to the agenda point. I would just like to correct the one position that has begun here, therefore, to talk about new employment, etc. So the State Office for Trade Policy in December 2011 passed over 25 employees from the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and another number of employees during 2012 from other ministries and state bodies, such as those from the office during 2012 who moved from the Ministry of Economy to somewhere else which is a normal phenomenon in the state administration. That shouldn't surprise anyone, so all these officials were civil servants before the state office was established, and then this information about so many and so unprofessional and employees may refer to unprofessional ones who may have been perhaps before in the state administration, who are not employed during this government. As regards employment in the state office, letter and number during 2013 three employees were employed through a public tender, and so many left the state service. Therefore, talking about new employment and damages, etc., does not stand. So the civil servants who were before we came to power will also go to the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and remain civil servants. And if any of them want to cross somewhere else according to the Civil Service Act, they can do it. Therefore, I wanted to say that at least this thesis about inventing jobs for party listeners, etc. they wouldn't repeat it or at least not remain unspoken here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48652	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. There's a replica. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48653	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. There's a replica. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48654	Replication response, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48655	Thank you, Mr. President. So, as far as coming to their jobs at the Ministry of Economy, no one has come to these jobs because the part-round of the Ministry of Economy has narrowed down and that body has taken over and as it says in the law and jobs and officials and proportionate archives and everything that goes. Therefore, it was an organisational change that had no impact on new employment. That's what I said about the pay phone. If necessary, I can also write with all names, of course with the protection of personal data to prove it. As far as the results of the State Trade Policy Office are concerned, I believe that there are those in the government who can speak a little more sovereignly than the Minister of Administration, as Mr Jandrokovic said at the outset. I believe that by coming either the Minister of Economy or the Minister of Foreign Affairs will be able to answer that question for you, therefore more relevantly, and I will stick to what I am responsible for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48656	Thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It's up to the club of independent lists and respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48657	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I'm glad to see you, too, but I must also commend the President of the Parliament for opening this session with the mention of guard decisions. When 70 years ago today or 70 years ago today, the best children of Istria... Rakovic, Toni Cerovac, Pino Budica's great archbishop Pavlisic confirmed a declaration by Ljubo Drndic with his own hand as quoted by the president that the spirit of Istria remains insubordination and that Istria joins its Croatian brothers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That message raised Istria to its feet. We don't want to be written obedient slavery. Then came a terrible offensive. It was personally led by Felmarshal Romel himself, and in a few weeks, either the resistance of those but the spirit, which raised the uprising, remained unruly. And here's why I once again thank the President of the Parliament for remembering that day. This is about the law or those days, a pardon about the formation and the division of the ministry and other central authorities of the state administration with a final draft of the law. Well, I don't think anyone here thinks politics can change with 20 or 30 or a hundred new people who would come and take over the country. So with the new prime minister, the new president of the Parliament, it doesn't matter, the four vice-presidents of the government as many as we have 19 ministers and let's say a hundred new people. So perhaps after the election, thanks should have been given to hundreds of people who were brought in until 2013. Just before we heard from Mr. Minister that de facto if we take those three, therefore there can be no cost of 15 million kunas when there is a reason for this law that the cost is 0 kuna. So, other than those three, no one's been brought into that body or the one under quotes to make people understand me who listen. So they're moving who? Those people who came to those institutions by 2013. And what by my court may have to do to make, after the term of office of this government, simply all those who are now coming and getting under quotes if that is true, the status of diplomat remains there or to offer mandates at their disposal. What is this law about? It is said here that the work of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and the State Office for Trade Policy, as well as overlapping competences in a number of areas, has been observed in practice so far. I'll also say, I'm also against that someone comes without a contest, especially that someone just gets diplomatic status. But I also dare say after the term of office, gentlemen, perhaps you should look elsewhere for a job such as the note of the fate of each of the parliamentary deputies after the loss of office. I personally don't see any reason why these changes won't be approached. Yesterday, the prime minister self-absorbed this one business diplomacy and it is really not the business of this trade policy only in Brussels to attract European funds but also work in consulates, embassies, affirmation of Croatia, I don't know who not all of them are. Yes, gentlemen, I've been listening all morning to remarks about Lex Perkovic and you say that's the reason or the weight of foreign investment. I think it's far greater, incomparably greater weight to look at the fact that half of the former government has been processed. That's the problem. And the problem is that Croatia is attractive not as much as we think it is attractive but as much as those who are willing to invest their capital in these areas appreciate it. Well, we're on the other side, I guess that's where we agree, until '99. years had one imposed war. Croatia was integrated after that Erdut agreement in the second half of the 1990s. '99. We lost another so-called tourist season due to NATO attacks on the then SR Yugoslavia, etc., etc. In fact, what this law is about, I quote this Article 2, "that the ministry is carrying out administrative and professional affairs relating to trade policy, especially the participation and representation of Croatian interests in EU bodies, in the process of adopting common trade policy, trade measures, etc., etc." Croatia is part of Europe, clearly. Croatia is not that it has not received anything from Europe, but Europe has certainly received something from Croatia. We export 10 billion, import 20 billion. Tourism so tell us they're holding strangers. T-HT is being held by foreigners, the banks are being held by strangers. INA was taken over by foreigners, Hungarians don't matter. A good part of the media is being held by strangers as well. We haven't forgotten the loans we get normally from Western banks and stuff. Foreigners in Croatia hold shares worth 87.6 billion kuna. What did this current government sell? They'll probably offer or give in to a highway concession tomorrow because this country can't serve 18 billion kuna within three years, they're gone, they're gone, gentlemen. At the beginning of this year, foreign companies and funds held 28.7% of all shares in Croatia. Who sold it out? They bought it all, they paid it all fair and why? Because we sold it because we didn't know how to run those systems. What am I saying? That, theoretically, Croatia could withdraw about 10.11 billion euros annually by 2020. In those 10.11 billion euros, 33% of our money is, in order to avoid confusion, the budget of all Croatian citizens. So, 2 times as many foreigners today have shares in Croatia as Croatia will withdraw from the EU by 2020. But the Croatian economy is open, such an economy must remain. Without foreign capital, we cannot and cannot survive, and he is simply welcome. Article 4 of this Act states that the state office is a central body for the management and availability of state assets, management coordination and is then discussed on the establishment of guidelines for the implementation of ownership policy in companies and other legal entities which are of strategic and special interest to the Republic of Croatia and in the systematic monitoring and enforcement of work, management, development and implementation of strategic policy in those societies. So the state office is said to propose to the government of the Republic of Croatia a decision on the establishment of a list of companies and other legal persons of strategic and special interest. Then it is said that the state office manages, has a housing fund, business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia, and that the management is not regulated by specific regulations, manages and disposes of residential facilities, real estates declared by the Ministry of Defence inoperable for military purposes and other building land owned by the Republic of Croatia. To say, foreign capital is welcome, perhaps it can offend us for example that T-HT was sold in '99. It seems to me for 2.5 billion kuna and today the annual profit of T-HT is 2.5 billion kuna. ... How was it sold? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] For T-HT? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48658	Please, you'll talk like that later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48659	But it still offends me if that's the case. If that's the case, if it's the control package and it's 2001, it's just as insulting as it is. ... A thousand is a Croatian word, give it to Djakic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] How did your mother take you home, a thousand or a thousand? I'm home... And you see, Ingrid a thousand, a thousand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now tell me that a thousand is not a Croatian word or thousands, or that Cyrillic is not even a Croatian letter. Come on, please! Now let's let go of the Cyrillic and the thousand. I think when we talk about this article 4 that it's good that before that it's amended the Agricultural Land Act to be more like. 1,000 squares can't be bought for 5 pcs of cigarettes or a hectare for the value of one salary. But what's far more important is that, according to earlier laws, it was allocated at an annual level of about 25 thousand hectares, and now in these first five or six months, 50 thousand hectares are leased, which is certainly something concrete and good. It's not a sale, it's a lease. Croatia has many unused properties. It should be put into service primarily of tourist land. At the annual level, large hotelers pay 35, 36 million kuna. Imagine how much they would pay for these million acres of small merchants, craftsmen and craftsmen, etc. I claim 10 times more, but that's not the point either, let's not pay anything just for something new going on on these properties, just something new because we're going to have one thing in common again. Here the law mentions residential facilities, the Brijuni Riviera project I don't know what's with it, it seems to have failed, but the whole project needs to be revised. But what I would say if we were talking about residences is that the residential part of the Brijuni simply removes the wire between the residential part of the Brijuni. Otherwise Brijuni are the most desolate hotel I will say resors in Istria and perhaps in Croatia. Military land should be put into operation. The Muzil should also be opened to the Pulans, but it is clear that the forts and the military from the devastation and the robbery should be kept in some parts when we mention some military, probably not only in Pula but throughout the Republic of Croatia. It's all been abandoned, everything's been robbed, everything's been torn apart. I said, this military land should be put into operation. But when something is "given" nothing is given, when it is sold or leased, it is necessary to define the deadlines when the facilities will be in office so that what we have today on Monoments or on Katarina down in Pula is not because of the conservative but because of the godless investor. I repeat, these military facilities should certainly be guarded, not turned into some drug center. I don't see any problem with this law at all. I repeat once again that it is not about some 15 million kunas thrown, but here, gentlemen, it is about people who are employed by 2012, 2013 being moved "under the hat" of the second ministry. And not to forget when we're talking about the Center of the Bank, yes, was that state supposed to intervene at the Bank Center with 50 million kuna? Someone's gonna say no. And I claim that, because the state-owned companies in the Center are losing at this time 125 million kunas, the highest HBOR 100 million kunas, the Environment Fund 13 million kunas, Pliacro 7.5 million kunas, etc. Money over 750 million kunas will be lost by someone else, but rarely by a citizen or by a small company. And why was it necessary to intervene? Because in the last 4.5 years, there's been about 350 million kunas in here, and someone simply intended to save it. And what is almost amazing is that, say former owner Mr. Bjondic, according to the head of the Slovak Bank who wanted to take over the Centre of the Bank, did not want to pawn his villa in Dubrovnik. And whose position is this Mr. Bjondić who came to a large land in Istria for 23 million kunas previously bought for a million kuna?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48660	Bring the end. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48661	I don't see much of a problem with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48662	Thank you very much. We have reports of replicas on your exhibit. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48663	I'm sorry he's not in the House, Mr. Batinić, so he can see that he can never take my word or interrupt me when I'm not talking about the measure of things. Like this, you relativated a fellow competition, you said what they'd do before, so it doesn't matter, and then somebody's gonna thank them. The thing is, it's not by the book, it's because some people are going to be in a position they shouldn't have come to, because they didn't go through the procedure that was prescribed, just because the state does it that way. It doesn't matter when they've been admitted it doesn't matter whether they've been admitted to HDZ, SDP, etc. The bottom line is that the parties in power employ only their members. And the question is, why do these people need to be protected like a bear or a holy cow? Why would they if that store office didn't have any results? Why would he now have results when he's attached to the ministry? Are these people capable? No, they're not. When are we going to discuss this? And don't listen they've been admitted they have to work now. How much? 40 years to work, 40 years to destroy. Or they're capable, so their bosses are incompetent. And yet another dyspression, I rarely use it, autocracy is exercised against those who allow autocracy. It's to colleagues before. Autocrats are mainly the product of those who allow semitrons are the autocrat position. I hope no one's ever practiced it, tried to practice it, but it's never done it, and it's never gonna be gentlemen before me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48664	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48665	I didn't understand this last one. I don't think you said anything about me. No, okay. It's better that way. I agree, too. Maybe that office should have been shut down, maybe the state budget should have been charged for 20 or 30 people. I don't know how that's gonna end up in court. But the fact is that this government, so he talked about it just before Mr. Bauk the Minister of Administration, so he doesn't hire her members she hired those three of her own let's say in that office. And I'm the same for the procedure absolutely, for the contest, against diplomatic immunity, against those smart phones, cars, etc. which maybe one of those employees who is now entering the Foreign Ministry would get because we don't even have it because we don't have it because they might not need it either. But... also, perhaps after the end of the term of office and those gentlemen who thus move their mandates to disposition, do not make themselves available to a future government so that we can see who the future government will retain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we all know it's just impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48666	Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48667	I thank Mr. Vice President, so I'm a colleague of Caine's, and here I was hoping that when you did this in the introduction calmly, here's... Our colleague Caine, but then I became convinced that evolution was a strange discipline, that our Caine was this of that fighter... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] for the rights of Istria turned into one ardent advocate of the SDP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And well, but that's your right, the dynamics of thinking is possible. But you were still talking about investment weights. And in that part, it is undeniable that the legal certainty of every investor is very important and clear rules of the game. In every area and the one you spoke of especially to me of dear agriculture. And you said that great achievements were made available. And I'm telling you that at the beginning of his term, the famous guidance of Minister Jakovina in the ban on agricultural land would be very much in office, etc., and this information is not correct. And the achievements of these efforts by Ministers Jakovina and the Ministry of Agriculture say that 4 to 5 thousand family farms are over. That milk production has fallen to zero, that poor peasants, farmers press charges to protect themselves. These are disasters, not achievements, and this is the breakdown of Croatian villages, colleague Cain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48668	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48669	... But for the first time, Mr. Representative, you have really disappointed me with your uninventiveness, your courts, which you probably don't hold too well on your own, because we know each other well. [[Specially enabled.]] I was talking about a fact that earlier in the existing, old agricultural land law at our farmers' annual level was being awarded what to sell, which was leased somewhere around 25 thousand hectares. Now, within six months, it's raised to 50 grand. It's not raised to 50 grand. What they will say is that some kind of benefits must be achieved by those who will be able to manage these properties.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48670	Next replica representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48671	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Cain, I am responding to that quote of yours from the debate that today two years after the authority that you,... Today after two years of almost this power, the government's cowardice that there are no investments in this country because half of the former government is in prison. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's what a man can't believe. After yesterday's step where you've repeated 150 times that this government is not guilty of anything but that apparently it's the people or some other people or maybe the world, there's a question of what happened to Mr. Cain. I remember in 2000 you were also part of that first SDP government and coalition, you escaped from that government with much better results then. With one different prime minister, with better ministers already months later as a party and you along with all the members of the IDS. Today bitterly, as someone said, perhaps the bravest of all the ruling coalition's representatives defend exactly this most unsuccessful government in this country's history. Everything's fine for you all of a sudden, everything that happens is fine. You raise your hand for every law and then say it a little bit like that and maybe it could be different. So I don't know yours, too, morals, especially for us on this side of the HDZ. Comrade Cain, your moral balconies are on the floor, and I have to determine that. Long time ago, especially in the last two years, they've fallen, I say, from some height you once had down on the floor. And it might be a good idea to look inside your ranks there because a man can't be surprised at what you say here. And one more thing, given those Pazian decisions, I would like to see you at the beatingification of Mr Miroslav Bulesic in Pula on September 28th. [[/Intruder: Nothing more, time's up. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48672	Will our Rules of Procedure mean anything to you? Do you think you're above the Rules of Procedure? That you're worth more than all the other MPs? So I warn you that your time for replica is up, you keep talking? The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48673	Mr. Boric, you're asking me if I'm going to be at the beatification of Don Bulesic, I will be. As the day before it happened in Lannister, my mother Maria along with Klaric, along with her two sisters Anna and Albina, was to be the berman in Buzet. Just like that day was supposed to be the berman and daughter of my father Ljiljan. The crowd sent them away. They did it afterwards. My father's sister. From Nina and Frante Caine from Kajina 6. So I can tell you what happened. It happened, it happened, but maybe someone else. There's been one crime to which all of Istria needs to be bowed. I don't know how many 70 years later. Or a little less years later. And that's what the whole of Istria will do in a few days at the Pula Arena. I'll say that maybe you're morally bankrupt. But you'd better listen to me carefully. I said that investment is more affected by the absolute fact that the entire former government or almost the entire former government is in prison, on the defendant's benches than lex Perkovic, and that anyone reasonable in this country will probably agree. And let us never forget that HDZ has been in power for 17 of the 23 years of this youth, let us call it Croatian democracy. And is this government in a year and a half responsible for everything that just happened in these places?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48674	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48675	So what would you do in these two years, except that the country would simply kneel under the burden of that policy that you were leading to 2013, and later we will also be talking about Don Bulesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48676	A colleague of Caine's. Comrade Cain, stick to the Rules of Procedure, you like everyone else. Next replica Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48677	Mr. Caine, you said you didn't see any problem with this law. I see him and I'll repeat where I see him. This law enters into reform of several resolutions in this government, without being part of some comprehensive reform. Mr Grubisic asked the minister about the results of the state trade office's work, the minister replied not to know what the results were. I said before that there should have been someone from foreign affairs because it concerns diplomacy and foreign affairs in general, that it should have been someone from the economy because it concerns the economy or the export orientation of the Republic of Croatia. If no one was there, if there was a minister then the minister could have prepared himself for it because we don't know if that office was doing well, if he was doing bad, if that office needed it, is that office perhaps unnecessary, we don't know anything. On the basis of what analysis did this change of the State Administration Act take place? As for the reform of the administration I assume the minister has begun, there is no reform of foreign policy, reform of the economy or reform. In any case, deny the Parliament to discuss it, and I repeat, in every country, this would be a very serious issue, not a contribution to the integrity of this institution's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48678	Thank you. Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48679	I must agree with you, sir. I don't know what the results of this office are either, I don't know, I don't know. I don't even know if he's needed, if he's unnecessary, but I know what Mr. Jandrokovic was trying to say that this government doesn't hire new people in this office, and I know that the cost of that new office is not 15 million kuna. And what we all know, too, is that next year, we all, this country, the budget, need to provide some 2.5 new billions of kuna for interest, that it should provide for an additional 2 billion kuna for the European Union, for pensions of an additional billion kuna, for salaries probably, for the social, etc., or for the restriction or strikes or to go to America, to raise a billion euros in loans and pay the interest that next year will be 12 to 13 billion kuna, which is certainly not again the policy of this government, but also the policy of 2000-2004, but at least this year from 2013 until now. And it's not an apology, it's a simple fact, it's the truth, and now we can be offended, we can be fooled, but let's be so careful, if we're honest with each other in a way that we and the citizens understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48680	Followed by the replica of Djakic's colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48681	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Cain, you've established a lot of things that don't stand, so I'm just gonna say a few things. In recent times, 15 million kuna has been spent on the salaries of those 40 people in the office, who have not given any effect, if the effects were known they would be visible in the economic indicators of today's Croatian authorities, the prime minister would also be commended in his presentation. They're absolutely gone, they're people who are incompetent, incompetent and set up by party functions. In love. That's the problem we talk about all the time. When you talk about the weight of investment in Croatia and of course those who have been processed or who are in the processing stage for some crime can't be difficult today because Chapter 23 we closed in clear sentences that among our party colleagues... there are those who stole must be processed. When you do so with your family who you called in the campaign, it will be nicer and better. But lex Perkovic is a safe weight that both European Commission President and Vivian Reding have made it clear that 240m euros for the Schengen process would be established where construction operations would be employed and professional personnel and those who would make separation from the Balkans would certainly help employment in the Republic of Croatia. And be assured that it's a terrible weight in the next two years unless it's resolved within an hour or in one day and annul that famous law that protects the Colombian communist killers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48682	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48683	Surely the Balkans is what happened in the 1980s or 1970s in Germany when Croatian immigrants were killed, the Balkans is what killed Yugoslav diplomats, the Balkans is what happened after the Storm, the Balkans is also robbing the state budget from 2003-2012, 2013, the Balkans is very simple. But Mr. Djakic, those 15 million kunas you're talking about, and that was a de facto for the salaries of your staff, for the salaries of your staff, for these 40 people who worked in that office that Mr. Bauk mentioned. Here's the thing. And if you think the state of Croatian shipbuilding is responsible for Mr. Bauk ok. It's his fault. If you think that's the condition I don't know about the shipbuilding site, the Oilman blames Damir Caine ok. If you think there is a chance, I do not know in Croatian tourism one of the other representatives ok. If you think that health opportunities are to blame this administration for not fulfilling the 2011 collective agreement that bought pre-election favors, because 850 million kunas should be found ok. She's responsible. However, I assure you that citizens still have a memory a little deeper than a human fish and that they remember the period behind us very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48684	Next replica Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48685	Thank you. You're Mr. Cain, speaking of the Center of the Bank, determined how to intervene at the Center of the Bank because state-owned companies had bills and money in that Center of the Bank. This famous 50-million-euro loan, however, I think the subject will also be investigated and the question that we need to ask ourselves which state-owned companies have opened more or less sub-accounts or additional accounts in the Center of the Bank and when they opened those accounts. Have these PLINACRO accounts, JANAF, HEP and some other public companies opened before or after the 2011 elections. Because if these accounts and these sub-accounts and transactions that were made through them were opened after the end of 2011 elections he and after a few months were paid these 50 million kunas. I think there's a serious question there, then, about the possibility of political corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48686	And this replica corresponds to Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48687	Yes, the fact is that the state, now this government intervened with those 50 million kunas to try to simply save one institution, to try to save the deposits of state-owned companies. I said earlier that in the center of the bank only HBOR would lose about 100 million kuna. Environment Fund around 13 million kunas, Plinacro about 7 and a half million kunas, etc. But money over 750,000 kunas may lose another. So that's what you're talking about, insurance savings, but rarely a citizen or rarely a small company. The fact is that you're right when you mention 2010, the eleventh, the 12th, because only HBOR via the Bank Center spins about 350 million kunas. It's a huge amount of money, and probably whether it's going in that direction to investigate the DORH or some other institution I don't know. You'll also see if any of the co-owners, owners, etc. They were able to act in a different way so as not to harm one whole state or social simply. Some individuals, as I said, did not want to pawn their villas in Dubrovnik to save one financial institution, but they did, for example, buy hills in Istria from some ministers. We'll see everything in all when we get those constituency reports, what it's really about, and until then, let the institutions be happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48688	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, a respected colleague, Goran Beus Richembergh, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48689	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to intervene in the text of an existing law on the formation and division of ministries and other central authorities of the state administration for two reasons. The first is to actually achieve an organisational precondition for the development of a new model of economic diplomacy, and the second is that some legal solutions and the adoption of a State Property Management Strategy define in more detail the powers of the State Office for State Property Management. It is known that there are a number of different models or concepts of economic diplomacy where somewhere the main role in the system is played by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, somewhere it is a combination of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Foreign Trade, somewhere it is a system that directly includes representatives of the Chamber of Commerce. However, what is symptomatic of the Republic of Croatia, it has not used a single one in this 23 years. Nor did it develop any particular functional model of economic diplomacy. Let's ask ourselves, are we satisfied with the external trade balance? Are we satisfied with the presence of Croatian goods and services, exported goods and services on markets outside the EU and the region? Are we satisfied with the value of foreign investment? Of course not. And we haven't been very long. But little or nothing seemed to establish a functional system that under the economic diplomacy model would help all those who are actors of this process. Therefore, from economic operators, economic associations, regions, local self-government, and beyond to facilitate their exit to the external market and promotion of Croatian knowledge, goods and services. Moreover, we have a whole series of examples where Croatian diplomacy has served a violation of the Croatian trade balance, where it has helped foreign companies interested in increasing exports to Croatia. I'm not saying it was for bad purposes, it was out of ignorance. But it's not a job or diplomacy or economic diplomacy. It must not serve the needs of other people's economies but rather protect and promote the economic interests of its own country and its economic operators in the promotion of goods, knowledge, knowledge of how the services we produce here and which we consider to be competitive on the foreign market. Likewise in promoting those values that we export in a specific way, such as tourism goods and services exported in a way that is sold here where they are produced. But also in promoting the possibility of foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia. And today, when the Government of the Republic of Croatia comes with a proposal that is actually on the trail of establishing a functional model of economic diplomacy to make a state office an integral part of the diplomatic system and to strengthen the capacity that will enable our embassies and all diplomatic and consular representations to make better logistics, understanding and professional feedback now the opposition rather than to welcome the rationalisation of this system and the establishment of a more functional system of economic diplomacy against it rises and this is under the auspices of a new employment that has not at all, even moreover, the abolition of a special State Office for Foreign Trade means the abolition of the principal post, secretary, driver, cars and all that the state bodies of such rank have so far had their integration into a system that takes care of foreign diplomacy policy. So it's an extremely illogical position of the opposition. That the government came with a proposal to multiply, complicate and re-engage the powers of those who deal with all these issues since the increase in exports, from the appearance of new markets, from promoting the possibility of foreign investment in Croatia then the opposition was invited to jump to the back of its feet to criticise it and put it under the lights of the reflector and said it was irrational spending and a frenzy waste of budget money. This is where you work exactly the opposite. Unfortunately, we have so far had absolutely no models of economic diplomacy in action. Yes, some will say first of all we need to have a good economy, good goods and service, and then we can discuss economic diplomacy. It's only conditionally correct. Because it's not true that we don't have competitive knowledge, competitive goods or competitive service. This would mean that we are not exporting anything, and we are very much exporting many good quality services due to knowledge, technology and goods. But it is also true that Croatia was also in conukturous times, not just in crisis. In conukturic times, economic diplomacy was thought to go to Verona for an opera and arrange some economic deals there or perhaps sit in restaurants and negotiate the division of shares in companies. Is that economic diplomacy? I'm sure he didn't. The opposition here respects not only new employment, which it does not have, but accuses that in this way party personnel will be employed in the state administration. That's funny! Who's accusing it? I'm asking the question of who in the governments of the Prime Minister Ivo Sanader was responsible for bringing 180 intelligence officers into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs without any competitions, without any background checks on the transfer model from the state administration to the state administration? Who did they need? Did the government, perhaps, when in 2008 it openly obstructed the trial of Krunoslav Prates later convicted of UDBA's murderer, Stjepan Djurekovic? Did they need a government that then suffered great shame because two Croatian diplomats were expelled from Germany? And not just any one of them, they're former high-ranking HDZ officials. One was the vice president of HDZ youth, and the other was the international secretary of HDZ youth. They came through the intelligence community into diplomacy, they're the ones who got diplomatic status and didn't deserve it, not those who would deal with foreign trade. And they were extradited by the Federal Republic in 2008, and left the Federal Republic. Who was the Minister of 2008 who was appointed to them? Who? Who has run the Foreign Ministry since January 2008? A colleague of Gordan Jandroković. Are we gonna forget about that? We won't. While you're trying to get things cleaned up, I'm going to be very, very happy as a child of a political prisoner to finally resolve all these questions about who and who and whose account did such things. The Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats is seeking to establish a functional model of economic diplomacy, and in this sense not only will it support this proposal of the government but will also support the efforts of the government of the Republic of Croatia which are known to be coordinated by the Deputy Minister of Foreign and European Affairs in recent months in order to establish a new model and begin to provide real support for our diplomatic and consular representatives who will cease to be career diplomats or political diplomats more and more effectively be protectors and promoters of Croatian economic interests. What was a little bit taken into account here is the second part of these changes, which is also important because it guarantees the address of responsibility for the management of state property. He's finally clearing up the situation and saying who's in charge of state property management. And this is another step in more serious business that Croatia has not done for 23 years because there is still much not only being run as social property but as a universal property. Well, the state never made a property register until this year when it started working. Never. We never found out what the Republic of Croatia has, but we were therefore participants, or witnesses of a whole series of situations where the registration of ownership of the Republic of Croatia on certain properties has made a serious disturbance in local self-governments, and we are not talking about the fact that citizens have often been brought into the situation that they have to prove ownership of the part of the state's assets by simply enrolling on the order of the State's Attorney General. Automatism. '96 is a very significant year in the process. The HNS club of Liberal Democrats supports the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48690	Thank you. They're following the replicas. There's exactly nine of them. The first is colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48691	Thank you very much. Comrade Richembergh, you spoke of economic diplomacy which is really needed by the Republic of Croatia and which would benefit the Republic of Croatia mainly from export investments, etc. In fact, it only speaks of the indirect fact that this office that existed and which was founded by the decision of the Kukuriku coalition failed to perform its role and function, so the results still do not exist. The second thing you've been saying and in addition to what you've been saying and what you've been saying is that at one point, the state has been giving incentives to meat importers, so the incentive for those who have imported, let's say, pig meat is being stimulated. I learned from the incentives for domestic production that exist for domestic agricultural production, but I say there was one time incentive for meat imports. Here's to your discussion. And as for this interesting detail from 2008 and abschieung, as the German banishment of some of our officials says, that's really interesting data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48692	The replica matches Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48693	Coli Grubisic, we couldn't expect better results than diplomacy that has served Croatian needs over the past ten years because it was actually based on the staffing that ended in court, regardless of whether it was an alcohol smuggling, whether it was sexual offenses or whether it was simply a thieving act, which is probably the trademark of that diplomacy to send people who were simply in a position to step one foot without any problems across the side of the law. They were never interested in the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia, so how will we expect such people and any work in the interests of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48694	The replica Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48695	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Beus, of course, I support most of what you said, but there's one thing I have to disagree with you about. You have estimated that the opposition's illogical position to not support the rationalisation of the system that is being achieved by this proposal is approximately what you said. I disagree with you. It seems quite logical to me from the point of view of the opposition. For 20 years, the opposition has been building a system that is extremely irrational, it has remained irrational on one side because it has been a polygon of filling party personnel, friends, relatives by grandmothers and uncles and its village, from its own street, from its youth, which is what we are complaining about today, so that's one thing. And secondly, this system was deliberately irrational, because the more irrational the system is, of course, the greater the possibility of corruption within it and that all those who are inside and outside and around it are being defiled at the expense of taxpayers. So in that sense, my colleague Beus thinks you're wrong and I think it's logical that they don't support not rationalizing the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48696	The answer to the replica Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48697	In one way we agree, and when it comes to logic it is very difficult to talk about when we speak in the context of the Croatian political scene of the relationship between the position and the opposition. I hope that logic will return home, and among other things, very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48698	Followed by the replica of counterpart Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48699	Thank you. So we have to admit that I expected a slightly stronger argument in defending this poor move by the Croatian government. In that argument, you failed to say that economic diplomacy already existed, that the people in charge of this area were chosen by public competition and that they were not politically colored and were chosen exclusively by professional competences. And you are also the kind of economic diplomacy that you have found, or not you, but those who work in that ministry who have found such an economic situation have simply disbanded it. People were simply disbanded from these jobs and this economic diplomacy was thus mutilated. And afterwards, the government introduces the Kukuriku coalition an office, an office that apparently did not justify its existence. As you said, there may have been a reason for the office to be formed so that a principal would have a car or a cell phone, etc. In order to have certain services that are not represented, you know that, so maybe that was the reason. Maybe that's what we need to look for the reasons for forming that office. And further rationalization as you said, I agree with rationalization in any case and everyone smart will support the rationalization of certain systems if he does not bring benefits, but this is not about it. This is about people really getting involved in a ministry based on the fact that an office has been disbanded that has not justified its affairs. How do you think they're going to justify these same people who haven't justified their existence in that office that was formed to break up today, how do you think they're going to justify their work at the Foreign Ministry? That's really very interesting. I think it is clear that this is a bad move by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has had to be defended from your side, it is understandable and clear to me but the argument that you have made does not stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48700	The replica matches the representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48701	A colleague, Matušić, is very nice when you actually make a funny episode, a fig leaf of Croatian diplomacy a declaration of economic diplomacy. In fact, we remember this situation very well when the government led by HDZ was pressured by criticism that the diplomatic system does not produce effects expected from the Croatian economy overnight invented a form of competition to choose economic diplomats. That contest was the subject of a public joke, unfortunately. This contest was actually a fig leaf on the inability to establish a system. It's just that there's no model, you can hire 150 people and declare them economic diplomats, if they don't know what their competences are, which is their job, who they work with and what they actually have to do, how they measure their impact, then you're a waste of paint.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48702	Next up is a replica of a colleague of Branko Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48703	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, you said that the secretary's place would be abolished, so there will be no expenses and that is certainly positive as it was already here and spoken. I could even say that it was very positive if this should become a trend that, after many law-making, decisions, regulation by that method of trying to break something that did not come into practice and then start to see the situation in Croatia to abolish perhaps a good part of unnecessary agencies for which we do not even know how many there are. But what I can't possibly share with you is thinking, thinking, your view is that you are now showing it as a positive and very short time ago it was depicted as something that will solve many problems in the Croatian state. Cheers. The truth is, maybe this is what I'm saying. And on the other hand, you're saying now that the Office of State Property Management, which is also now so complex, is going to be set up as a non-human in the state administration created to manage its assets, they'll know everything, they'll probably do a very good job. Is it not going to happen that in a short time, we get a proposal and an cancellation of that office, and we say the same thing, so we're going to cut costs because we're not going to have to pay the director, the secretary, or maybe some official cell phones or cars.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48704	Followed by the replica of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48705	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Beus, I just wanted to add, while we're at it, recommending to the minister of administration if he can, if he can lift this investment center, popularly in the people called the ear of the Croatian People's Party. Because this country obviously cannot withstand the rise of these investments, especially in the energy sector. Well, if I say so, we'll cancel this one at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, too, maybe it'll be good. And since you're holding moral disciplines, just an example of how you decentralize this administration. One of your colleagues who became the head of the municipality in 6 months I think Gornja Stubica and before that was the director of the board in the Croatian highways the day before the resolution for conflict of interest invented an advisory post in the Croatian highways. So that he will not be in conflict of interest, that Croatian highways will pay him without him being chief. Here's just for some moral purposes. And I told you, your moral balconies are somewhere in the basement after your second day of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48706	This replica corresponds to a colleague of Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48707	Ah, when someone calls on morality, it's hard to talk but I'll actually look back at this story of yours about the eardrums referring to a colleague... I will sign every initiative you have to remove all of the centre's earpieces, including all of the ones you founded, including the one you so generously, so broadly donated to the Croatian peasant party at the end of the last term. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know exactly what I'm talking about and how busy that party's staff is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48708	Next in line for the replica is counterpart Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48709	I thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, so there are a lot of things that my colleague Richembergh said that really aren't true. So, he went through that method of assault is either the best defense or you're holding a thief. I'll defuse one point at a time. First, on the 1st month of 2008, I then become a minister and I couldn't hire anyone because I opened my first competition in the third year of my term. So it's got nothing to do with what you're talking about, and I don't know that people like that have been hired, maybe someone entered a competition before, but it doesn't matter to me. Second, as far as I'm concerned, and a very dangerous one thesis that those people who came in were expelled from Germany. People who came in and those who were expelled from Germany were not diplomats but were employees of the service. Those who were expelled from Germany were reportedly expelled because of their influence on the Perkovic process. So it's not diplomats, it's in some other spheres, so look for it there, and it certainly wasn't anyone who was close to me, it might have been someone who was close to someone else who was the creator of foreign policy and who influenced the choice of intelligence. Next, you mentioned your colleague Coleman, you mentioned 2008. Until 2011. That a lot of people were in love and that any new employment. [[Intruder: But you cannot replicate Coleman.]] Okay, now I have to, I'm not going to replicate it to him, I just want to say it. During my term with 1520 people, we ended up with 1280 people. So 18% less people in the foreign ministry system and you can check that out. I haven't boasted much about it, but check the numbers, you have them, look at the personnel service, and you'll see what's right. And fellow Coleman, speaking of unsuspecting employment, I think it would be very good if he didn't talk about it. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48710	Look, I must warn you again, colleague Jandrokovic. But you can't replicate Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48711	And lastly, all right, I won't, I'm sorry, but that's all I'm saying. And as far as attaché commercials are concerned, it's a project that was made in collaboration with all the competent institutions, it's people chosen in the competition. 300 people came forward, 5 of them were selected in agreement with the chamber, with the HUP, with Croatian exporters, and if I'm proud of something, then it's this competition, and it's those people who were then elected. What they all did now in the private sector, from the private sector, I guess for the first time in the Croatian state...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48712	Time's up. The replica matches a colleague of Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48713	I feel sorry for my colleague Jandrokovic that you either have a short memory or you don't understand things. So they can be phenomenal people, those 5 that you hired. They didn't have any tools, they didn't have a system model to work in, and that's the problem. You've actually presented the whole story to the public as a solution to our problems, and in fact it didn't happen and you've brought them into an awkward situation. You've neither given them authority, nor given them the opportunity to actually do a concrete thing. And as for the first one, you've been Mr. Jandrokovic's minister since January 2008. The persons involved were on the payroll of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, one at the General Consulate of our State in Munich, the other at the embassy in Berlin. They both had diplomatic status and they had diplomatic passports. You can't run away from the responsibility that you were headed the system in which they were getting paid. Now, I'm glad that you said that they were the ones who interfered with the trial of Krunoslav Prates. Now I ask you, if they were the official representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia abroad in our diplomatic and consular missions, which is the policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that in 2007 and 2008, the trial of the Court of Muenchen man who was convicted as the murderer of Stjepan Đurekovic. And that's the question I'm hoping to find a soon-to-be answer to. You can't run away from responsibility, it's your government, you were the boss, but who brought those 180? Maybe it wasn't you, you didn't arrive, they were brought before you, it was Mrs. Kolinda Grabar and Mr. Zuzul before you, and you were working in that house back then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48714	At the violation of the Rules of Procedure, he warns his colleague Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48715	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank you, your reaction was correct, timely and absolutely fine but due to the retention of form I will also officially say that Article 235 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Jandrokovic, in this situation, did not have the opportunity to replicate me, but I repeat, the reaction was...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48716	Okay, that's what we've absorbed. Second infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Gordan Jandroković.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48717	Article 216 has been injured where the representative falls short of the usual behaviour in the assembly and sets out in the sphere of something that could be treated as a state secret. So I can't talk about these things, I can only in principle say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at that time, probably and now, doesn't frame that part and has no powers and influences not the choice of people who come from the service to the diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia. That's one thing. So don't put me in touch with something I had nothing to do with. You can ask the then Prime Minister or the then president of the state because the president of the country came from your ranks. And what exactly happened to those two who were expelled from Germany is that you must also ask service representatives, representatives of the competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia who are engaged in such activities. I don't know anything about that. So you're totally wrong about the address and you're playing with dangerous things that can come back to you like a boomerang.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48718	Time. Now, you said article 216 was injured. It reads, "The session's session is being convened by the president of the parliament. The assembly can be held regularly and extraordinaryly." So much for knowing the Rules of Procedure. But you took advantage of your colleague Jandrokovic, you used the breach of the Rules of Procedure to respond to the reply to the replica, that's incorrect, you have to admit. I'd have to give you a heads-up about it now, and I'm saying it. We continue with the replicas, Davor Bozinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48719	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's someone calling for form, and I'm just insisting on content. It was said here that Mr. Richembergh, if we were satisfied with economic diplomacy, we weren't, I agree. It seemed a little bit, we could say that. You were talking about models, one model you obviously applied a year ago, now you're giving up on it. But again, I say, here we go into something without having a bigger picture. You're saying this is a functional model. In order for something to be a functional model, then the model needs to know something about it. What is the function of such a model? This is, unfortunately, an organisational model, so here's where the organisational issue first is solved. It's not like it's the first time in 20 years that some homes are drawn first, and then there's talk and thinking about what's going to happen. I repeat, this question is very complex. What is tomorrow's relationship with Croatian Chamber of Commerce, craft chambers? What is the function of these diplomats? I will correct you and the minister spoke not of strengthening economic diplomats but of strengthening the multifunctionality of diplomats, so that they are not only dealing with one segment but also capable of other issues. That's what I wanted to talk about and I assumed that today we'd talk about because if economic diplomacy was really about it, then we'd be talking about what models are in place today, which is economic diplomacy compared to the 19th and 20th centuries when it was created, when there was no normal communication between companies. Today there are other ways of communicating, doing business, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48720	The replica matches my colleague, Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48721	Comrade Bozinović, I'm sorry that you heard one piece of information that I said might be on the way, but it's important. So, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs has already appeared to me to be working intensively for more than 6 months to build a model of functional economic diplomacy, and I have said here that the head of this team working on it is Mr. Josko Klisovic, Deputy Minister of Foreign and European Affairs. Over the past six months, so many meetings and consultations have been carried out, compared to models, analyses made and are going according to a model that is concluded to be optimal for Croatia at this time and that it can produce results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48722	Now we'll hear the replica of counterpart Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48723	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a colleague, Beus, who told me what a minister who party personnel would assume expertise in the employment of this government, unlike the previous governments. Well, I'll give an example that I can personally testify to. It's Minister Vrdoljak and the HNS-led ministry. It is about Koksar, where two doctors of science were removed from the Supervisory Board and set up a cabinet that has nothing to do with Koksar or the town of Bakra from Matulj just because he is a member of the HNS, and the shift was agreed on by St. Mura and done through e-mails. That's what the daily press wrote, so then we can talk about what the government or this government was doing, how and how it frames. Two months ago, after an emergency procedure, we passed a similar law where we abolished AUDIO and founded DUDI. Well, now the question is whether someone put a new one in that DUDI and where the AUDIO people went. And not to mention, that's what Mr. Jandrokovic was talking about in the beginning that a year and a half ago it was known that this office wouldn't need to exist and that it would be attached to the foreign ministry. How many people have come to this ministry? It is known that of one ministry were created two exactly a half, three per party key, and then one mathematics should be made as to how much it costs, and what is the difference between that and this government, given that the government in this House passed a law where members of the Supervisory Board were elected by a public tender, and that this Supervisory Board, which your minister has replaced, was appointed by this same government in the fourth month so that, according to your party's HNS key, there is documentation for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48724	Thank you. The replica matches Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48725	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48726	Turn the microphone on. Comrade Beus, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48727	So you came after the local elections. So, about the same time that there was a debate here on the State Assets Strategy or afterwards. At the same time? Great. So, to say that there was AUDIO and then DUDIO was founded, DUDI was ultimately unknown. So there were both, but there was a merger. So it goes to a completely different model of governmental property management where no new body has been established, but the existing one has been given new competences and authority. So that's the first thing. As for this case in Bakru, I don't know about him, I'm telling you the truth. But I would like you to ask a written question to the Prime Minister and, from a written reply, all MPs get information about what actually happened in that case concretely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48728	The last replica and Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48729	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, Beus Richembergh, you spoke about the strategy and I, when I hear that word strategy and mostly the strategic branch, almost gave me tears. In that sense, you spoke of a strategic branch which is the subject of your narrow interest. It's tourism. And I want to say here that this strategic branch is also talking about the relationship of this government to the village. A short time ago, we discussed the tourism strategy here by 2020. Right? By 2020, and we warned that rural tourism was almost neglected, almost nonexistent. This is not a contribution to the even development of our homeland and not to the values that are important. I'm particularly in pain with the strategic branch that I'm talking about. It's agriculture. That's what has the potential to feed nearly 25 million people and today is about to break. This is not a strategy, and I am afraid that this strategy will all end in this sense that this tourism will come down to what I was saying and then, that people will someday be led to tourism in rural areas, showing where people once held and raised cows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48730	And this last line matches Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48731	Dear fellow Milinkovic, I greatly appreciate your need to say what you have in mind whether there is a cause or a form. The fact that I have not mentioned the Tourism Strategy in one word at all, at least agriculture only contributes to the fact that you speak when it comes to you and it doesn't matter if it's relevant and I don't say anything else. And what can I tell you? You're right in general, but you know you're not colonelly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48732	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48733	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. There's the end of lex perkovic on the portals. We have until 1 January 2014 this law that has been passed two days, three days before EU entry must be amended. But it's not that, it's not about today, although we've spilled a lot of bile here at the pay phone and today we've taken a break and spent time on that thing. The HDSSB did not participate in the creation of strong state agencies, offices, offices, offices, commissions, centres and that Investment Centre against whom it voted when Mr. Cacic was the first Deputy Prime Minister, to know that he was the first, so he did not participate, and we really do not know what we would actually do and how we would vote for this. But we will vote against or withheld. For this very reason, because here in this matter and the creation of agencies, offices, institutions, the commissions participated in both HDZ and SDP almost equally. I will read to you only the number of employees in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of some countries who have some similarity to Croatia. Here is Slovakia has over 5 million inhabitants, a million more than Croatia and has 1050 employees at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Croatia has what Jandrokovic said about 1300 now, right, plus these 40, so it will be 1340. When the State Trade Office joins, let's say. The name of the ministry may also be changed, so it will be called the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and European Affairs. I don't know. As there was the Faculty of Economics and the Faculty of Foreign Trade a long time ago when I studied medicine. Bosnia and Herzegovina has 560 employees at the foreign ministry. The country is about slightly smaller than Croatia in the mainland when I speak and the number of inhabitants will soon be the same in view of our ethnicity. Slovenia 600 employees at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Do I still have to count? Denmark, Norway? If we could decide or decide, if we were in power in any case we would meet both the number of these agencies and the state offices and the commissions and the institutions and whatnot, which all came to the state and about the neck of this people to the minimum extent possible, and also in those agencies and the number of employees. Because this material really shows a overlap between the authority of the state offices, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in which I had the honour of being in Brussels because it is located in a great place, the beautiful residential villa of the HGK I think it was with me whether Bozinović was with me then at a meeting of the HGK where we had some kind of lecture and I was surprised that the Croatian state, pleasantly surprised, also has such a villa in such a place in Brussels. For this State Trade Policy Office, I almost didn't even know until today. That's why I asked for the results and successes of that state office. What did he do? Why is it not said in this material too, here there was now we attach it to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to act better in terms of economic diplomacy. Come on, that way to go. But so far, it's done that, that, and so it's useful for the Foreign Ministry to join him with the State Trade Policy Office, which I haven't actually heard much about, even though I've been here constantly for 6, 7 years and in politics and in the Parliament, etc. And which was formed by the decision of the Kukuriku coalition upon coming to power and hired those 40 people as Bauk says they are not newly employed but are redistributed from other ministries, offices or I don't know what not. Then what will the HGK and everyone else do to us? I was in Brussels an observer for a year and two, three months. The Vice-President of the Committee of Agriculture came to me one German is not an important name, I can tell you, who asked if you in Croatia can deliver 100 tonnes of wheat crumbs or bites a week in Germany to us in Germany, my partner in Germany? I wasn't an economic diplomat as they say or as they say, I wasn't running economic diplomacy. That's 5 grand and 200 tons a year, that's 520 car bites in Germany. So does it take a lot of diplomacy and the establishment of a state office and I don't know what? We need to communicate with people, we need to be open, not our reputation to undermine with such things as Perkovic. And now Vuljanić is looking across in the European Parliament, and you are the ones who do not respect the laws, the European laws. So Vuljanic told the Committee on European Integration that he has a completely different relationship now than he did half a year ago or when we just joined the EU. And I'd like to add something else, see how slowly I don't say crawling, undetectable, Ministry of Economy who's running it? Mr. Vrdoljak. The foreign ministry, so HNS, Mrs Vesna Pusic. To keep the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade in the same hands, united, but not in the hands of one man but one party. So the foreign ministry is joined by the Office for Trade Affairs, Foreign Trade, Ministry of Economy. So it takes some kind of obvious thing to say reunion. I wish it were just like I somehow figured it out two or two or one and it would be good for Croatia. I'd be pleased. So let them take their hands and make something. All right. But given the experience and the fact that there are no results or how anyone says there is justification for the existence of such a commercial policy office, I'm afraid it won't be so. It is clear that the ruling have the right to mix everything in the work of the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration as a matter of urgency. And I'm very interested in why today's first item of the agenda except for that Jandrokovic intervention in "Lex Perkovic" so on the break, we have exactly this law. and in the 82nd place on the agenda a legislative proposal based on more than 50% of the signatures or a third of the parliamentary MPs proposed by the HDSSB on one of the problems that is happening and which is current and is still as current as the doctor's strike, so the situation is practically about the state of international relations in Vukovar, precisely about the night jump to say one former horse jump or night jump of the ministry with a change of board in Vukovar. It's in 82nd place. This is an emergency procedure. Oh, don't tell me. It's so urgent. Is it so urgent that it took the first position in the agenda of this House by emergency procedure, both of them, all five readings as far as there is already no me and the emergency procedure. What kind of citizens are we, first of all, so people, so the MPs, that we can't listen to each other at all, collect how someone says "heads" even though I don't like it and think a little bit about what it is for this country and for these people and for the citizens of this people, bitter about all the issues, starting with Vukovar and the Vukovar boards, starting with the health and strike of doctors and nurses, starting with the farmer who's going to sue us with the court in Strasbourg, so all these dissatisfactions, here's the first thing in an emergency procedure we're asking for the State Trade Office to move to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's the most important thing in this council session. Is that possible or are we not to be warned by Mr. Stazic, not to say anything else? And then here in this debate we mention the Center of the Bank of 50 million states there, we mention how the money is turned from the state-owned firm Plinarro, Janaf, it seems to me that the Holding, Đuro Đaković, HEP, HBOR through the Center of the Bank, a lot of things have been said in this debate today and we wouldn't expect it to be the title of this bill that we're going to open this much today, and it's going to open up more and more at every point. And it's good to open up because what's going on in the country is neither a picture nor an opportunity for that report or a speech from yesterday. I won't mention the names or the party, I don't care. So I point out once again, I won't waste any time, what I said, and I said that the HDSSB didn't participate in the formation of any agency, not a single commission, not a board, not a center, especially one for investment that we had a heated debate about when there was a discussion here about this investment and car procurement center with heated seats, two pieces for that Investment Center, so that someone or I don't know if I got any disease to free themselves. So the HDSSB participates in the debate but on this move, the move doesn't really need to be for, can be held back any way it wants from colleagues or against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48734	Thank you. Now we move on to replicas. First up is colleague Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48735	Thank you. My colleague Grubisic, so I will replicate first what you said in the introduction that an agreement has been reached between Croatia and the European Commission in Brussels and that there will probably be no sanctions. So I'm just going to add that Reuters announced that Croatia has caved in under EU pressure, although yesterday we are the prime minister who said that it will represent that interest even more deeply and that it will defend the interest even more strongly, as he said Croatia's interest under this law. What is surely the reputation we have lost will be difficult to regain, that is for sure. You were talking about the urgency of this law. Was it not more urgent to put this law on the agenda at the beginning of this session and to change it and simply save what was given to save from the remaining reputation, and not to continue to experience humiliation in the European Commission. You said exactly about the Center of the Bank, but you forget the Credo Bank, you forget another bank that went bankrupt. Well, that goes on the burden of taxpayers, too, that money. So it's not just the Center Bank here that's about some other banks like Credo Bank, a crime that's probably been going on, but let's get it checked out by UskoK.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48736	Reply to the replica of counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48737	Thank you very much. Comrade Matušić, you said you mentioned the Center of the Bank and the Credo Bank, and you may have forgotten the County Bank, as well as Dubrovnik Bank and Rijeka Bank, there are plenty of these banks. And secondly, you see these officials of ours who said they might have dyslexia, is it, in terms of lex of this, lex of that, some of them ended up in Remetinc and some of them might be in some other suburban settlements of our capital, our metropolis. I won't speak in which.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48738	Next replica, respected Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48739	Well, thank you very much. Mr. Grubisic, you have provided a number of information here including the number of employees by the Foreign Ministry. I'd say it's not the point in numbers, and even here, the point is in function. We've heard here from some MPs, not from the promoter that it's a functional model we don't know anything about, we haven't heard anything new about this model today. And that's what we point to from the beginning. So there's been an argument given to us that there's held a whole series of meetings about there being a man at the level of the deputy minister who runs it and that's it. So we don't know anything about the model. What we're trying to say here to the promoter we need to know who's going to do what to get a grade. So it's a functional model, this is a pure organisational model, this has nothing to do with function. We mentioned various chambers, we didn't mention tourist communities that also have representative offices outside the country. So what we know about how this economic diplomacy will work with all these representations, which are its priorities, which will be its tasks. So this is about a completely reverse order. First, the structure, the jobs, and then we'll eventually think about what we should do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48740	The replica corresponds to the respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48741	A colleague of Bozinović, a colleague of yours from the club who spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club Mr Jandrokovic said that he was a downer or a substrate of all of what is said and about this law laid out in Rijeka's new list in May this year. And he said exactly everything that was written there and it all happened today and it's happening. So the whole scenario was designed. As for the Croatian Tourist Board, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and all other ladies, I asked myself, foreign affairs and Europeans at the time, why the Republic of Croatia does not buy or build on a greenfield investment building with all Croatian representations, embassies and all other institutions that the Croatian state has in Brussels. Which would be worth it. Because you know yourself, you've been in diplomacy as much as we pay, how much we pay for all these foreign representation institutions. So that we can have two monthly payments to pay off some credit for buying our Croatian house, Croatian home, buildings in Brussels. That's what you and I talked about a hundred times in Brussels. Right?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48742	Followed by a replica of the esteemed twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48743	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Grubisic, here you are talking about employment and new jobs that are... But here's the problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And about how someone in the European Union asked you to buy, I don't know how many tons of bites. And imagine that in 2012, someone told you how to bring in live pigs, you'd say, OK. We can, we have a license because that license you see after 8 years, I have to say monitoring but also hard work and advocate not only veterinary professions but also breeders to not vaccinate swine fever but to monitor the condition of the disease. And just when we got this minister and his associates replaced everything that could have been replaced and given to the lowest level and what was involved in the negotiations and in chapters 11 and 12, everything, absolutely and brought in high-level people who had little to do with it, and they claimed that here they went to Brussels and got permission to import meat. But they forgot something, they forgot that for two more years they had to do monitoring over the Aujevci, that's false rage. And here's a two-month ban. Pig husbandry is on its knees, just when it came to him, and all the experts who are busy at the Ministry of Agriculture have destroyed them all the way. And then what does the government do? Buy Minister Jakovini and those experts think the phone, they think they're really smart is transitional.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48744	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48745	Comrade Sumrak, you can also see during the HDZ government there were meat importers who received incentives for meat imports. I know personally when one of our major farmers imported from Bulgaria's trains, it's not about tones, it's about pigmeat trains, pigmeat trains that have been frozen in Bulgaria for more than a year. The European Union has prescribed six months, but since we were in pre-accession, we could also eat pork, which is 40 years old because your minister said it was completely healthy. What's it taste like? Who cares? It's a taste of tail, you know it yourself when you buy somewhere in, the tail is still good for what it looks like. Now, we have asked a question in writing, there is no Minister of Agriculture here, which the importers in the Republic of Croatia have been entitled to duty-free imports of pig meat into the Republic of Croatia? Because I've been complained to someone else that I can't get an importer and some have won. It's four or five companies. You know what the answer was? It's a state secret. The current Minister of the Intruder doesn't understand. No, I asked Linic because it's a customs-free import, why he gave a duty-free introduction of pork. I asked him, and the answer is it's the secretary of state per article to someone, I don't know which article, what article I know is, ask God.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48746	Next is Branko Vuksic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48747	Dear Minister Bauk, here's where you've got to start dealing with agriculture. Mr. Grubisic, you have spoken of many agencies, state offices, directorates, commissions, institutions, but there are you in great error and that you are in great error yesterday, knowing what you are going to discuss today, the prime minister who said that by rationalising these public services that we are going to achieve something is wrong. No one has ever said how many of those agencies, offices, directors, commissions, institutions, how many people they work there, how much they seduce us and what they do, what they bring us. He's got a railway security agency, so when they call that agency, they tell us this train seems wrong, then they say don't call us, call the railroads, we're not teamed up. The testimony is recorded on the tape. Then there's the Railway Services Market Regulatory Agency. They've received seven cases, complaints, solved two, five are not in charge. They steal God's days, spend state money. When they were founded, each party founded its own, hired its own people, and if we're finally going to get a government, a minister who's going to say let's make an inventory to see what these people are doing. They say they haven't been teamed up for years, they get paid, they have cars, they have secretaries, they don't do anything. Watch seven complaints, for five they're not competent, two complaints a year. It's their job. So that... that's the biggest salary in the world, there's no higher salary than that. We don't want to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48748	Replication response, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48749	My colleague, you've listed exactly two agencies, and about the railroads, and that's what Novak should have said because he's... So the Railway Safety Agency should know that that retard retard who led unfortunately to those consequences in the Solinas that it led to and I'm sorry to say that it happened, he did as he did, that we imported some kind of, imported, thank God we didn't produce it even though we have the light... and the chemical factory as much as you want in Croatia that deals with these chemicals. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So that's one of the consequences. And the second consequence is that the other Railway Regulatory Agency or something, it deals with the fact that you in Croatia have no connections, if you want to work on Urinje in a refinery in Rijeka or I don't know where, then when you arrive by train from Slavonski Brod at 10 o'clock or at 9 o'clock in the evening, you don't have a train until morning, so it doesn't matter. It deals with derailing railway connections in the Republic of Croatia to make road transporters and road lobbys earn money on it. That's their role, their sad role, what else can I say?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48750	Representative Ivan Shuker presents the next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48751	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague Grubisic, if those who propose laws in this House were to stick only to the Rules of Procedure, then it would probably not be such a bile debate because they probably stick to the Rules of Procedure, then they would have to give us an explanation as to why they are abolishing this office because when you cancel something, you create something new, then you have to realize that you have made a mistake, that it does not produce results and that you are proposing some new solution that should be given results. Then this debate wouldn't go either, I don't know where it all came from, some of them hold lessons that have the least reason to teach in this high-level assembly of things, but it's very interesting that some MPs are informed far better than the informed ministers of the government they were sitting in, a lot more things they know, and then it also points to some things. But this news that came from Brussels is practically a panda to what we're talking about. Someone will have to, who assured us yesterday that everything is wonderful and wonderful, have to tell us that he was wrong and that Croatia has suffered damage. But I repeat, the key thing is that those who propose the law and who offer something in this house actually get the right to speak in this house, to stick to the rules of procedure that they have brought. Because when you look at these bill proposals then that opening part, you don't have an evaluation of the existing situation because if you had an evaluation of the existing situation then you'd know why someone would suggest that the office be abolished and put it in the Ministry. Since you don't have an evaluation of your current condition, since you don't have an estimate of what's going to happen to this new structure, the question is whether in half a year or a year, we're going to realize that this missed too. However, the key thing is that the concept of this government was initially that the generator and economic recovery bearer would be public enterprises, not some investment or economic diplomacy. And about what economic diplomacy should do, let all the gentlemen in this government who communicate with foreign ambassadors look at how they do it, and then they'll be clear, they don't need to invent hot water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48752	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48753	Comrade Shuker, there are people who will never admit their mistake. It is humanly wrong, and human and Christian to forgive. Since in what I said, and I think you heard what I said, there is one element that is not respected and not recognised by the Prime Minister, then it is understandable that you will never admit a mistake. You understand me, right, people are like that, especially some of those lower ends that are called the bottom head or I don't know what. Now, so this state office doesn't go away, you get it wrong, it attaches, becomes the adoption of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As I would say, that would be the best name for the adoption of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So then we have the Ministry of Economy of the Home, and here we have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade and everything is under our paws, I mean not ours, but I'm talking under quotes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48754	Next up is a replica of a colleague of Đura Popièa.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48755	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, you have opened really here and in your reply to the replica you confirm that which was, in fact, the role and meaning of the State Office for Trade Policy. I'll tell you, and it was directly or indirectly confirmed by Minister Bauk when he said that 30 people had passed from the Ministry of Economy to that office. Therefore, the office at the Ministry of Economy was once at the level of departments within the Trade Administration and engaged in administrative affairs, relations with the WTO, with the European Commission, with bilateral relations and arrangements with individual countries, with CEFTA etc. That had nothing to do with economic diplomacy. All this continued only under the big office, the boss, the secretary, everything that was formed when the new office was formed, the State Office under the Prime Minister who is now gone, went to Brussels and now there is no need for the office. And now they don't know what to do with it, but they're moving him into foreign affairs. And here we see great ignorance of most MPs on this side who say it's a new model of economic diplomacy knowing that these people, of course they know that job, their work of administration that they've been doing and they've finished negotiations in the Department of Trade Policy of the Ministry of Economy. They have nothing to do with economic diplomacy. It's all flossula, it's nonsense and nonsense. We'll only get one mix of nothing from it. The question is who in the future will do these jobs that have been done for years at the Ministry of Economy at the Department of Trade because it is there and place. And what makes my colleague Bozinovic justifiably and raises the question of people you mix things up. It doesn't matter, these people, this office, the way it worked and how it's now defined by really economic diplomacy has absolutely nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48756	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48757	Listen, Mr. Drinker, I guess there's going to be a course, so it's going to have to do with economic diplomacy and your experience in those things you're talking about I really appreciate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48758	The last replica of the representative, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48759	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's how this debate goes broadly I think it's good for the Minister of Management to hear a little bit about agriculture and the state of agriculture, but unfortunately about the catastrophic state of agriculture, so here's this conversation with your colleague Grubisic, a colleague from the Committee on Agriculture, about this situation, about the relationship with agriculture and the irresponsibility. Because this relationship is irresponsible, sloppy and superficial, without using other words. In fact, let's just remember that, those rejections from the European Commission for the paying agency. We almost slipped through the needle's ears in December last year. And now to speak under these circumstances you have 380 million euros for structural support, 330 million for rural development. It's just too high. Why? The chamber ended up agricultural as it ended, other services were not formed, were not formed as they should take over, and of course the question is how ready it is to use these funds, how prepared it is. But that's why the minister is very loud, clear. The support has never been paid again, so we can see how much it is and look for the culprit. It's always these poor peasants who struggle, who work hard. And this is one ratio of irresponsibility and indeed a relationship to a village that is discriminatory and leads to the destruction of the Croatian village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48760	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48761	Thank you very much, colleague Milinkovic. I didn't expect a different replica than agriculture. In fact, it's true that agriculture went there as it is, in a coma as one of my colleagues says. With 900 million gallons of milk now we're barely at 5 hundred and we don't have any domestic needs but we import it and import it. But what I am taking off the hat of the Minister of Agriculture who is weak and communicating with our peasants is that at least that's what helped employment in Brod-Posavina County so he took a couple of officials, officials, ship officials here to work in Zagreb. This is all his, his contribution to the development of agriculture in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48762	Mr. Arsen Bauk, the secretary of the board of directors has now come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48763	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President and thank Representative Milinkovic for taking care of the width of the detour dealing with members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of course regarding agriculture and all others. Otherwise, the Department of Administration's work is quite wide from official relations and information to parent offices, the rights of national minorities. Now we've got life partnerships. Therefore, a very wide area. Then it can spread a little bit to agriculture and other segments. You also mentioned rail services. We can talk about it. But there's no Mr. Vuksic. He's the reason I called. So, not to remain unspeakable. In addition to the ministries and central authorities of the state administration of state administration organisations, and the state administration's offices in the counties, there are 185 legal entities that are said by the agency and the rest. So here's the number. I can't keep it unspeakable. I'm not going to read all 185 of them, although it would only confirm this width that we're talking about. There are five of them directly under the control of the Croatian Parliament. It is the Agency for Electronic Media, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, the Agency for the Protection of Competition, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and the Croatian news agency HINA. Two institutions are in charge of the Ministry of Defence, none of which are called the Agency. The five institutions are in charge of the Ministry of Finance, of which four agencies are including a financial agency that is not exactly an agency in this full sense of the word and the Fund for Compensation of Assets. In the power of the Ministry of Economy there are 11 of them 4 agencies, 7 agencies. There's an institute of institutions, etc. Two agencies are in charge of the Ministry of Construction, and 50 institutions are in charge of the Ministry of Culture. It's mostly museums and several state archives. The way I see it, none of them are called agency institutions. In the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and craft is one agency for a small economy and investment. There are eight institutions in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, four of which are called agencies. In the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure there are 19 institutions of which 7 are agencies and there are 10 port administrations. One institution is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. In the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System there are 5 institutions most famous are the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and the Croatian Employment Office and the Central Insurance Register. Three institutions are in charge of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds. There's one institution in the department's jurisdiction, there's two of them, so we've cut it in half, and I've got to brag a little bit. Two institutions are in charge of the Ministry of the Interior. In the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health there are 9 institutions of which are the most therefore Emergency Medicine and Public Health Services, Telemedicine, Toxicology, Antidoping etc. There are 22 institutions in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature, including 19 public institutions, national parks and nature parks. In the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, 39 institutions, the most institutes are almost all and 4 institutions with the name of agencies. So now that we're talking about the number of agencies, here's the exact data, detail, and we can add the number of employees and all that together. And what I said once, so in all the offices, ministries, state administrations, if we exclude the military, the police, the IRS and Customs as special services for less employees than the employees of the two largest hospitals in Zagreb. The State Office for Trade Policy therefore currently employs 29 employees of which the very large majority were employed prior to the coming of this coalition to power, and as I said on the basis of the three reception plan, through a public tender, they were employed in the state service. They will move from one institution to another as they did when the office was formed from the Ministry of Economy to the state office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48764	Minister Bauk introduced us to the structure of these institutions. It'll be interesting to hear the replicas on this data. The first one will be presented by Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48765	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm grateful to Mr. Minister for appreciating my efforts and my commitment to agriculture and the village and I don't know otherwise, it's my life, I've been witnessing the years of the lives of these farmers, the efforts to improve production, and it's really there before the government so far have achieved significant results and in increasing the production of milk and meat and everyone else. Unfortunately, however, we are now witnessing that here is the statistical latest data saying that this is all about decline, etc. But it's also good to inform the minister soon and the budget for the next year 2014 so let's note that after what you've cut so much in agriculture, I have to use such a word, that almost 30 percent of it hasn't been paid off yet, that you have that in mind, but perhaps even better not all of this would be about aiding and moaning for support than to whisper to Mr. Minister to understand that he hears our peasant, to understand it, that this milk package that was brought also days before entering the European family needs such things that are important for the production of milk to bring before. Because he can't hear our peasant, of course he can't hear me, so you're sitting next to him. Maybe he'll hear you better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48766	Replica, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48767	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you certainly and need to hear in the debate and topics that may not particularly concern your ministry, but since you are the legislator of the law that is being set up by the state administration, then you are obliged to listen to the topics from agriculture and other activities that are within the authority of the Government. But what I wanted to say and why I gave the replica is that this law, or amendment of the law, is actually a recognition of the government that it completely failed to organise a very important segment in its work, which is in the organization and economic diplomacy. Because something that you here in this House a year and a half ago claimed was the real solution that will trigger a series of investments in Croatia, which will contribute to foreign investments today, you yourself said in the introduction of the law that you did not meet the purpose of which this office is organized. And that's why he's changing now, his structure and he's just as he said before, Mr. Grubisic has adopted the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But if that were the only case it would have made it easier for you to forgive, but these days it will be here in the Parliament and the Government Report on Regulations which, during the time until the Parliament was sitting, changed certain laws, so it has changed the law which gave one agency that we found unnecessaryly established, which is the Centre for Investments and Monitoring of the Energy Sector's business, which was given to him to conduct public procurement in the section relating to the implementation of works on energy efficiency of buildings in the Republic of Croatia. And now the government has also confirmed by that regulation that the centre is not doing anything, that it has done nothing, so it has now returned to the Agency for Real Estate Traffic by law to the authority of the centre. So a very large number of decisions concerning the formation of the state administration of the establishment of agencies and centres have been changed lately by new laws and thus admits that it has made a mistake in these decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48768	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, a respected colleague named Denesh Shaw signed up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48769	Thank you very much, Vice President, esteemed ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to take part in this debate on this problem of the work of the state office for the possession of state property or by the new name of the state office as part of the ministry. It is therefore well written here in Article 4 that "the state office is coordinating and harmonising the criteria for the management of state assets in the capacity of the professional holder draws up draft proposals, management strategies" etc. I'm not quoting that right now. In the same article, it reads in one of the following items "the state office manages and disposes of the apartment and business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia" etc. There must have been a mayor and mayor here among us in the House who had or had certain contacts, dealings with this office. I don't know who has the experience, I have to say that I've been working with this state office for almost 15 years, and I have to point out, I've already said this once in the debate, that I have a very, very bitter experience. In fact, I must stress in the introduction not to employees who are extremely kind and professional, however, the work of this office is so organized that it is practically impossible to expect any efficiency that these problems related to state property can be effectively resolved. In fact, we are like the Baranian triangle I must say in the disabled situation because of the fact that in our property almost 65, 70% of pre-war social property has become state property while this relationship in other areas of Croatia is quite different, exactly the other way around. And during the realization of any project, building infrastructure or social standard facility, we almost certainly come across a particle when there is a particular documentation that says that it is owned by the Republic of Croatia. And in that case, I must immediately make it clear to you that for a minimum of 6.7 months in the most ideal situation, you will not get the paperwork done until you resolve it. If there are other specific moments, the interests of Croatian Roads, Croatian Waters, Elektroprivrede, Ministry of Culture, if there are museums and that structure and the institution set their conditions then it is minimum for a year and a half, two, and I have some cases that have been under way for more than three years and I don't know when we will solve it and resolve it with such efficiency. That's what I'm saying, for this reason, I've advocated before, that we should seriously deal with the work of that service, is it because of this ineffectiveness very negatively affecting the creation of what we always advocate here, the investment climate. And now that you're adding a complicated procedure and everything that is related to the realisation of public procurement, is local self-government mandatory if there's a bigger investment, so I don't know how much more along the way I'd like to mention both the legal tariff and the geometry tariff then there's a storm opening up for that investment climate, there's a storm about that climate, and some facilities are almost half a year, even though the funds can't be realised, built just for those reasons. I had a chance a few years ago when that service on High Street asked in the office of that tenant, the clerk, so isn't it possible there's just no place in that office, you don't have room, there's so much paper, there's so many items. She told me so, Chief, that's where we solve everything from Dubrovnik through Opatija to the White Manastir. If so, it is quite understandable that it is really very difficult. I again advocate and pray and Minister please and all who are competent to try to solve this problem not tied up to every county, but these four regional centres of Osijek, Split, Rijeka in a certain way are involved in solving this problem, that it is decentralised whether for each and the smallest bit everything can not be solved by e-mail, consultations should be carried out etc. and surely that we from Baranja would be far more favourable and faster if we could solve these things in Osijek. Not only that, but a lot of other things, but especially when it comes to property-legal relations. And I'm also going to give one more example to support the availability of apartments. In particular, I have a situation in my municipality, I have four two-bedroom comfortable dwellings in state property. At the same time difficult housing problems in the Danube Rit for the third year, third year please, I've already wanted to make a press conference, third year that these apartments can't be assigned, fail, fail, and I'm getting people there this is not now a year, two days it's the third year, so it's inherited since the previous and earlier government or furniture whatever you want. Therefore, there was no effective solution on the establishment of these lists who decided on it, what level, county, return office, etc., etc. Believe me, it's true, it's true, and when a man says it, then it seems very, almost incredible, but it doesn't work that way, I can't say it works, but it simply makes some things work. Because it's too centralised for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48770	Thank you, too. We have two replicas reported. First Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48771	My colleague Shaw, I wanted to say something more about this law, which is that he was in charge of something, even though it doesn't say that for economic diplomacy. Now, you see, according to the minister himself, he was created by gathering 29 from a number of other offices or ministries, whether that's how Mr. Bauk people who, without some kind of check in knowledge, even the economy and diplomacy entered the office. So in order for someone to enter the office of economic diplomacy so they must know at least one world language, they must be tested, so on knowledge, active language knowledge. Let's go through some sort of basic diplomatic school in terms of diplomatic conduct and behavior, etc.. Now you see how that office came into existence. It was created from the hills, from the valley, that 29, 30 gathered, and a state office was formed that did nothing. Now I wonder. The foreign ministry is taking over the, uh, adoption to tell that office. And what they're going to do next in that foreign ministry is whether they're going to do the same thing or not. What's it really for, anyway, is that, so joining this office to the foreign ministry when it's never done anything before. Because no, here we asked Mr. Bauk, he doesn't know, he has no information but someone would have to be responsible for the work of that office and give us information about what he did, how much he earned, whether he sold a bite or I don't know what he did from Slavonia or didn't sell, or from Dalmatia or an olive tree or I don't know what.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48772	The answer to Denesh Shaw's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48773	Very short fellow Grubisic without the intention of offending anyone at least in what they say to the state apparatus, nor is it related to any government and so on, but in practice, I have had the opportunity to speak to the relatively high-ranking officials for five and more years, I will now no longer appoint a ministry or anything, so from the conversation one could conclude that if I were to decide maybe no stronger local committee would have entrusted such a management expert.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48774	Second replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48775	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I've been very comfortable listening to your debate where you've been pointing out the problems that the leaders of the local self-government units are facing, we're not going to say today have problems in their basic functioning, and they're getting more and more involved with social issues, not to mention all the problems and the resources are getting smaller, we know very clearly. And now that it's all calming down and doing it, then there's one part of the investment where people try to do everything in various ways to make kindergartens or anything else to improve the quality of life in their environment. And under these circumstances, big, big problems. There's a lot of talk here and about access funds, about IPARD, etc., we know that it doesn't quite work out like that, it's almost, almost two years from now until it's realised. I personally testify to such a problem. And then another particular problem is the problem with that public procurement. Today, professional complainants have competitions that appear, crash, wait three, four, God knows dear, and this indeed brings these units in rural areas to an even more difficult position and are thus in a very difficult position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48776	The replica matches Denesh Shaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48777	My colleague absolutely agrees with certain findings, but we could talk to all of this about public procurement very, very long and very much about many specific moments regarding public procurement because it was obviously not solved in quality and it was one big brake in the realisation of projects. However, these years of experience related to European funds, etc., I think it will make it even a little bit more difficult, complicated, especially where pre-financing has to go, and then later if everything is okay and you may not have hit the color shade, etc., so there will be remarks, then there is a risk that you do not even realize the funds. It's a pretty big problem and I'm not sure that we're down in the field, the good counties are still more personneled up to realize all that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48778	We will hear another individual debate from counterpart Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48779	Thank you. This debate that was really quite interesting, i.e. this agenda point and such, when they actually appear, always brings me back to the state budget itself. We will meet again in two or three months, with the theme of the State Budget 2014 theme, it was a rebalancing and in fact with the fact not only catastrophic economic indicators but simply about the situation that the budget is practically in an unsustainable position. So the public debt grew only by some over 20 billion kuna a year, the deficit over 15 billion kuna has reached, the GDP will end up at minus 1.5 to two. So the question arises whether the current status of salaries, pensions, social rights of citizens can be preserved. Farmers are reduced by about 100, 100m euros each year in the past and about so much in the previous year... the funds allocated to agriculture. The salaries of health professionals therefore we see the Government cannot meet the provisions of those contracts as planned and when such points of the agenda come, whether or not it is a state office for... /Buka in the hall./... Come on, Shuker, a little bit. I apologize to my colleague Shuker, but I can't get it from him. He's loud without a microphone. So in this text of the law, we have five state offices: the State Office for Trade Policy, which, with this proposal, changes and the law as it stands, has, with a budget as it has, moved into the frameworks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so no rationalisation is carried out, in any respect. State Office for Public Procurement, State Office for State Property Management, State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, and another probably a few months ago founded, State Office for Reconstruction and Residential Care. If we look at it, face the fact that we really need to cut that state budget because at this point it can no longer be charged in the way these expenditures ask us to, probably the State Office for State Property Management would be as it seems and with this budget that it has, in fact, the only real sustainable one. I think that the Republic of Croatia would survive without all four other offices that could practically function as departments but not in the way that it is now being done, with the State Office for Trade Policy, that it is fully moving within one ministry, even if it is actually carrying out rationalisation. Is it easier to implement the rationalisation of state and public administration or is it easier to reduce pensions and salaries and funds towards agriculture? It seems that for now, the answer is that it's easier to cut wages and pensions. Because anyway, we won't be able to go into the budget, whether in the next year or in the back, follow these expenses. So will the government finally take some responsibility for rationalising the expenditure side of the budget? So isn't it easier to put under control that a really serious analysis of these institutions is carried out and that their calculations and the number of their employees are seriously rationalized or that we will continue to be politically from year to year, so as long as God gives us, we roll downhill as a ball of snow that gets bigger and faster and faster rolling. When it comes to agencies, Minister Bauk recently mentioned, here I am driving Mihaljvac today and I see from the right hand side of the Medicines and Medical Devices Agency. Sometimes in that same facility up until a few years ago he worked for a very successful institute. For decades, this institute has been one scientific institution of value and quality that enriched Croatian health and medicine with a whole range of products and relevant research and worked in service, and today, instead of one institute, we have an Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices in the same building. We're rich enough not to even have like you poor Americans "food and comrades," so they have one Food and Drug Agency. No, we're fed up with only one medical agency and we'll start five other agencies to deal with food, follow-up, research and the like. So in this situation where we are today, I don't know why the Minister of Administration, of course, the Minister of Administration here is actually standing in front of two changes, one that comes at the encouragement of the foreign minister and others that comes in fact to encourage the head of the State Office to manage state property that changes the actual powers of this State Office for the Management of State Property again in a way that still these powers are not in this amended law sufficiently clear, sufficiently firm and sufficiently fast and effective in implementation. For example, in the departments of the State Office for State Property Management again means the State Office after the proposal, when it comes to appointing, so it cannot take a decision to appoint but... to carry out some consultations, and then this proposal will then be sent to the supervisory boards of commercial companies and the like, after consulting the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which will then put the Government's Commission of the Republic of Croatia's final proposal, and then the Government, I think, i.e. it still has an ineffective system and these amendments and additions to the law when it comes to the State Office's State Property Management Office. We must be aware of what is often missing from our focus that the Republic of Croatia is a small country, with few inhabitants and in our stories, in our projections the way from Dubrovnik or from Zagreb to Osijek, or from Zagreb to Rijeka or from Rijeka from Dubrovnik, these are some huge relations. We need strong institutions, strong institutions, large numbers of employees, and that's actually the reality that we can't meet ourselves, that the small state of modest income, the state of very modest production, with a very small share of any competitive production at all. So when it comes to this commercial diplomacy, if we exclude that part of the Croatian economy that is no longer owned by shareholders or owners from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, it is already owned by major chains of economic or foreign origin which are very easy to carry out through their parent companies, only a few relevant companies in the Republic of Croatia remain large enough, which need more economic diplomacy or help directly from some of the bodies of the Republic of Croatia. There's a few of them, and it's not hard to count. And they're mostly from the food business. And these, and some of the remaining great indeed economic maybe even the largest industrial plant like Petrochemy in the Box, for example, is leaving. As soon as it is taken over by a strategic partner, a large partner from abroad will no longer need Croatian diplomacy to promote artificial fertilisers from Petrokemia. Or if in the future he takes over Podravka some big chain which he would not otherwise, it is not uncertain that Croatian diplomacy will also be no longer, the economic need for this Podravka will sell but whoever takes it very easily through their own network will solve the problem of distribution of that production. So, in all this story in Croatian economic diplomacy, I think there was a great deal of fog, blurry, an unrealistic story where we didn't actually put our real effects really on paper and saw what we could do at a competitive price and a proper quality at all offer beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. After the closure of CEFTA, and the opening of the EU market, I think it is very small. So, these total changes without effect, without need and without any valid actual value for both the Croatian budget and the Croatian citizens, I would not vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48780	Thank you. We've reported five replicas, but we'll hear from them at 15.00 hours. I'm setting a break now. It's a 13,28 o'clock meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48781	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] There are more replicas left for the presentation of counterparts Djurovic. Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48782	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I am sorry that the debate was so abruptly interrupted because we could replicate in that first part while the minister was present, but now more as we see it, but I will in any case replicate my colleague Djurovic to that part of his speech where he spoke about the government's responsibility and where he spoke about whether the government would rationalise some institutions, or whether he would rationalise the state administration or have to resort to measures such as reducing pensions, salaries, etc. Well, counterpart Djurovic, this government will be because of its policy and because of what it does, or rather what it does, it will be forced to do both. She will be forced to give us supervision of the European Commission in October because she will see that the deficit of the state budget will break the 3% percentage that is very important for the functioning within the EU and tomorrow for the accession of the euro area. And of course they'll impose surveillance on us. We will be forced because the deficit in the budget will be greater than 16 billion without covering the health debt that is also being said. Therefore, it is clear that this incompetent authority does not have the right answers, if it had the right answers, it would have already started to apply them in the first year of its term of office, if it had the answers to the state in which Croatia is today. Unfortunately, the prime minister's speech yesterday made it quite clear that they have no intention of taking the right measures and that they have not created the preconditions and environments for the economy to grow and have not addressed the fundamental issues concerning the situation in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48783	Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48784	Well, in the good part of your replica, I'd agree, the only thing in the initial part you said was the minister, the damage didn't hear yours, but there it is. I agree, however, however the situation on the side of our position, the question of position or opposition, I think that the austerity measures should really be so comprehensive and can't be reduced to just cutting off the axes of those largest items that exist, and that's actually one approach to rational behaviour that must actually be present in any and even the smallest item. And that so far has been shown very often during the term of office of this government that we are now talking about, we will not now look back at any other mandate, that this is not the case. It is simply not possible to say on the one hand that there is also a possibility when it comes to spending in public bodies, about new employment, about a number of items where we have accepted most of the votes on the left, and on the other hand, when it comes to some other items, we can say here, and therefore there are no and therefore there must be some radical cuts that often affect the very substrate of that basic substrate of Croatian society and the rest in fact in the Croatian village and in Croatian cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48785	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48786	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well Đurovic, the Đurovic, is here, regardless of what the Vice-President of the Parliament has said, has stopped it from being heard until the end and our replicas and your responses to the replicas are here, and I want to say and look back at what you've been saying about rationalization. Is that easy or hard? It's hard for them to rationalize institutions, it's hard. Because they were primarily to be employed by newly established institutions on the party's key, and when they saw how to rationalize it, they ended it here as we see it and then just attached something else. But the easiest thing to do is to rationalize any farmers. Let's take a look at how many missing family farms, how many missing farms, how many have disappeared in two years. And how did they do that? So they cut off the incentives or shut down or didn't pay off. And today the peasants who went to the protests receive home from the judge for crimes are called to court, they will be punished, they are controlled by tractors, one fear is introduced. So they rationalized the meanings of agriculture and farmers but institutions and employment by party likeness, expertise, party-only parties are not, there is no power for it. It's not easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48787	Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48788	When it comes to peasant protests, unfortunately our farmers were not well aware of the public to communicate fully justified demands they had made regarding the payments that the state owed them for incentives. Because simply the amount that it is reduced by in the budget is not the reduced value of incentives that should be paid per hectare. And that difference is about 700 million kuna. And this policy, which in the budget has reduced the amount intended for incentives, but in fact it has remained realistically per hectare of the area of farmers, they will certainly and I fear it with great damage and with great heavy interest, sooner or later, to charge, if not through Croatian and then through European institutions. Because you simply can't say that the state will pay for, for example, 500 or 700 kuna per hectare, and when the sum of these hectares is summed up, that's some amount of money. And then say we don't have that much than we pay 700 million kuna less. I think it's quite clear that this country was completely wrong because it did not match the amount of payments per hectare with the total amount of budget it was intended to pay in agriculture. And that'll definitely come for you. Unfortunately, peasants with peasants will be late, and the country will cost much more. There was the only problem in the protesters in part that they did not communicate clearly enough with the public, which means their claims. Well, those were legitimate claims of those fees that belonged to them under the law. If the state simply cut the budget, it will no longer be paid. You can't not pay off the obligation you made to pay off.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48789	Thank you very much. We are often called to the Rules of Procedure here, we have arranged for the Rules of Procedure to be discussed in the first reading in the second reading, third reading, emergency procedure, and I do not know how we come from the law on the detachment of ministries to peasant protests. But about that, that's the practice we've put in place. Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48790	Thank you very much. I don't want to talk about peasant protests. In fact, you said that we were a small country in relation to clearly some let me say Germany, France and some other European countries in Spain, Poland at the end with regard to the number of inhabitants, but there are also countries that are less than or equal to some of the same population as Denmark, Slovakia. Let's take Israel that has a small, efficient public administration. So I'm in my speech when you're replicating me to talk about a large number of employees in that I won't tell the bureaucratic but state-run administrative apparatus and it continues to continue. Those who were during the former government in those institutions, agencies, there are 182 said Minister Bauk and they are all others, and they have hired new ones. And that's how it's always piled up. The only thing we have is a natural drain due to the age of 65 and then they're leaving now is going to be 67 so there's going to be more of them but here's the thing. When you were talking about us being a small country and our economy shrinking with regard to the sale of everything and everything to sell is sold, I must mention that the state of Croatia has about 60 companies that are of special or strategic importance to the Republic of Croatia. And then there would be economic diplomacy, so-called. It could work. However, among them you have what I know about Bizovačka, Daruvarske spas and others who cannot help or help economic diplomacy, and then the existence of this office in general is questionable how you put this inquiry and the effectiveness of this office for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48791	Thank you. The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48792	Yes, Mr. Grubisic, in order to be consistent in the afternoon part of the debate on this point compared to the afternoon, we must continue to talk perhaps more widely about the topic that has been discussed because in the morning debate we have run very far and there has been no problem with it, so now it would be a little unconsistencies that now in this final part suddenly we focus on just what it is now about. But here I agree with you. Simply in a way, the problem of public service employment and with a small drain, it reminds a little of the partisans when they drop three immediately and catch a machine gun, so it's about us in the public service when one of the more or less three are immediately hired by the new ones. I think we're going to have to radically and drastically change that pattern. I don't think it's that much of our struggle.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48793	Igor Coleman's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48794	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Col. Djurovic mentioned the FDA to the American Food and Drug Agency as an example of rationality, since Croatia probably has two agencies for this topic America has one, so just to make the FDA budget for this year is 4 billion 486 million 368 thousand US dollars, so something over 25 billion kuna and something over a fifth of the total budget of the Republic of Croatia. So when we talk about rationality, is one agency or two agencies an example then we need to specify the complete data and keep in mind some figures that are behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48795	The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48796	Yeah, I'm gonna have to use another parabola, this approximately replica of yours was the Russian's 300 million, that's the Montenegrin one. I mean, by saying what the FDA budget was when you didn't compare it to the U.S. national budget, you didn't say anything about the relationship that it was about. So there could be only some parallel that would have to be somewhat consistent with both GDP and population. With this I just wanted to say that large states with a large population can afford to have one institution like the United States has one institution of a national agency that covers the entire area and pharmaceutical industries and a huge area of food surveillance. And we a small state in a building of a once very successful institute today have upset a huge administrative body that deals only with the supervision of medicines and medical products, which is an indicator of irrationality, ours I don't know on one side we have a complex of lower values to the outside, and on the other hand we show wastefulness and sometimes a complex of greater value to ourselves. I think we should simply frame ourselves in our capabilities and have institutions and institutions that are consistent with our financial opportunities and the size of the markets that they even cover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48797	And the last replica of Igor Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48798	Thank you, Vice President. I feel for our troubled farmers, and I know what a difficult situation our agriculture is, but I will not speak of them in this replica, but I will look back at one part of your exposure. When you told Djurovic that the budget was in an unsustainable position, you asked yourself the question of regular salary payments in the future. But you also realized that we wouldn't be able to keep track of these expenditures. You're right, I absolutely agree with you because, as we could, the minister himself said that we have 185 agencies, institutions, funds where I'm employed if I'm well directed somewhere around 21 or 22 thousand people. To make things better, there's some kind of agency I've never heard of in my life. So there's an Agency for Spaces Threatened by an explosive atmosphere where 53 employees work. There is an Agency for Pressure Equipment with 14 employees, there is a Croatian Register of Ships, he has 95 employees with an average salary of 13 thousand kuna. It seems to me like I have the largest fleet of points in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48799	The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48800	Yes, I agree with you, it was impressive, for example, that the State Statistics Service, which has over 500 employees, over 500 employees with the resources of these employees, cannot informically process data from the census for several years because it requires hiring new hundreds and thousands of people through various services. Well, that's, that's amazing stuff. This shows that it simply continues in the state administration to work a little bit, work insufficiently, and that there is plenty of room for serious, serious rationalization. Or we're going to do rationalizations on this borrowing dynamic of a few billion euros a year, we'll still be able to borrow probably a couple of years because the rest of the coast, the rest of the islands, the rest of the water. There are still some national treasures left that we will finally mortgage but this borrowing will end. So we need to get to some point of rationalization more. I don't know this way how this goes on right now I don't know where it's going. Because we see, the revenue side, but the real revenue side has been stagnating for 10 years. And the cost increases indefinitely. From year to year, year to year, and when you add this recession and this constant decline in PDP. The entry into the European Union is not positive for us, for our economy is this one negative event. Our economy in the environment of the European Union is even more inoperable than it was in the environment in which it was operating before entering the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48801	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48802	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Construction and Circumstance of Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 469. The debate on the text of the Law is over. The amendment was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. I'd like a representative of the Proposer to be made aware of the amendment of the Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48803	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48804	Thank you very much. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please decide who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes are 82 votes in favour and 34 votes against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48805	- Final proposal of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain questions from the Croatian Parliament's section, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 475; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The discussions were conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Prime Minister Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48806	I would like to thank the Vice-President, very briefly, so this proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to authorise the Government of Croatia to regulate the issues of the current economic policy in the part-line of the Croatian Parliament, with the exception of changes in the state budget and the regulation of taxes and those issues which, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, can only be determined by the Croatian Parliament during the period from 15 December 2013 to 15 January 2014 and from 15 July 2014 to 15 September 2014, and in the event of a breakdown or expiry of the term of office until the date of the first session of the newly elected Parliament. This is a law that seems to me every year at this time of year by the Croatian Parliament, so I suggest that it continue with this practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48807	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, counterparts Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin are not present, they lose the right to debate on this point. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48808	I stress that the adoption of this law requires most of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The next is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 475. The debate on the bill is over. The amendment was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. I'm asking the motionary's representative to come forward with the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48809	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48810	He accepts. Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the bill. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please decide who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 92 votes in favour and 24 votes against, passed the Law, and I regret myself, so 92 votes in favour and 24 votes have been abstentioned by the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section, in the text as proposed by the Government, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48811	- Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the restoration of the endangered monumental unit of Dubrovnik, first reading, P.Z. No. 393; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure shall apply to the application of this Act.... Is there a problem? ...which refers to the first reading of the Law. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, the law will be introduced by the Deputy Culture Minister, Professor Berislav Šipus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48812	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. The proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on the restoration of the endangered monumental unit of Dubrovnik will deal with the following issues. The activities and tasks carried out by the Institute for Reconstruction of Dubrovnik are specified and the provisions relating to the restoration programmes of the monumental unit to the right and obligation of the owners and other holders of cultural goods to the restoration within the limits of the monumental unit are specified. It is also foreseen to determine the temporary guardian for cultural well-being in case the owner is absent or not aware of his residence or is unknown. If the owner of the building does not access the reconstruction of the building, the Institute acquires the right to obtain a local permit, solutions to the conditions of construction or confirmation of the main project and to perform reconstruction works. The registration of the legal right of 15 years for investment by an institution that can be realised if there is a sale to non-referencing persons, of course, in the event that the owner does not recover the funds invested. Furthermore, the provisions on the founding interests of the Dubrovnik Institute will be amended in a way that the founders of the Institute will be the Republic of Croatia with a share of 60%, the City of Dubrovnik with a share of 30% and Dubrovnik-Neretva County with a share of 10%. So far, the founders of the Institute were the Republic of Croatia with a 60% stake, Dubrovnik City with 20% share and Dubrovnik-Neretva County with 20% share. The number of members of the Governing Council would be amended in such a way that the five members will be increased to seven members of which the president and two members will appoint and resolve the Government of the Republic of Croatia, two members of the Mayor of Dubrovnik and one member of the Mayor of Dubrovnik-Neretva County and employees of Dubrovnik's Institute of Reconstruction, while under the existing law, the administrative council has a president and four members of whom the Government of the Republic of Croatia appoints and resolves two members, and one member of the City of Dubrovnik, i.e. Dubrovnik-Neretva County. The provisions governing the system, i.e. the composition of the expert advisory commission, will be amended in such a way as to appoint experts from the field of protection of the construction heritage, and one representative shall be appointed by the central body of the state administration responsible for culture, environmental protection and nature, construction and spatial planning, then the City of Dubrovnik, the Croatian Chamber of Architects, the Croatian Chamber of Civil Engineering, the Association of conservators of Croatia and the Association of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities. A provision setting out the conditions to be met by the Director of the Institute in order to comply with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education will be amended. The Dubrovnik Reconstruction Institute will be financed by the funds provided in the Dubrovnik City budget of 50% of the total net income the city has achieved since the sale of tickets for the tour of city walls. The transitional provisions stipulate that on the day of entry into force of this law, the management and management of Dubrovnik city walls is being taken over by the City of Dubrovnik from the Association of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities and ceases all rights of third parties who, on any basis, used, by any other document, any other document, by means of the city walls. Since the date of entry into force of this law without legal effect, all legal transactions have been concluded for the purpose of the management, use or management of old walls. The company of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquity is obliged to hand over the property of the town of Dubrovnik to an old wall, as well as money intended for the restoration of old walls, which have not yet been spent for that purpose. Given the complexity of this question, allow me and inform you of the legal reasoning of the law on amendments and additions. So the contract on maintenance and use of the city walls complex in Dubrovnik was signed between Dubrovnik Municipality and the Dubrovnik Old Friends Society in Dubrovnik on 16 April 1969. Until... the contract was signed on October 31st 1984. This contract was put out of effect by a new contract on the maintenance and use of city walls, which was concluded in 30.6.1998 between Dubrovnik City and the Association of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquity. The first addition to this contract was signed on 23 December 2009, and the second one was signed on 27 April 2010. The 1998 Treaty, as well as its annexes, were concluded contrary to the applicable Law on ownership and other real rights, in particular Articles 35 and 391, which makes this contract a waste of the legal provisions, i.e. before the conclusion of this contract no public tender has been conducted and no compensation has been determined for the benefit of the owner at market price. The city walls are publicly well in general use, and Article 35. The law on ownership and other real rights is clearly stated among other things to whom it can be given for public good management in general. This good can be given to managing institutions that are the founder of the i.e. A unit of local self-government. Furthermore, Article 391 of that Law provides for a way of making real estate available to units of local self-government. According to that provision, which entered into force on 1 January 2007, I quote: "The property owned by units of local self-government and units of local administration and self-government of those units may be alienated or otherwise available only on the basis of a public tender and at a price established at market price if the law does not provide otherwise.". The second paragraph of this Article is also invalid. Furthermore, we believe that public funds were spent without public procurement and the procedure prescribed by the Public Procurement Act. Finally, regarding the regulation of this issue, I think it is necessary to draw attention to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and to Article 52, which states the regulation of the sea, seashore and islands. Water, airspace, ore treasure and other natural resources, as well as land, forests, plant and animal life, other parts of nature, real estate and things of particular cultural, historical, economic and ecological significance, for which the law stipulates that they are of interest to the Republic of Croatia, have its special protection. The law therefore lays down the way in which goods of interest to the Republic of Croatia can benefit from or benefit from the powers conferred on them and/or the owners and the compensation for the restrictions they are subject to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48813	Thank you very much. We're moving on to replicas. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48814	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So this replica will not be related to the scale of the thing that I'm going to talk about, and I'm convinced the others later, but to the fact that I'm unhappy that, first of all, these two very important points, two laws that come from the field of culture in the afternoon. Both laws are catastrophic, they have fatal consequences for culture, and at this time absolutely no one is following them, we are not covered by media attention, which should indeed be focused precisely on the adverse consequences of these two laws. In the hall as we can see, there are about a fifth of the MPs, and this only shows how it is imposed, stressing the attitude towards culture and cultural goods. Because this is imposed, this schedule is deliberately imposed on purpose that in the afternoon, in the afternoon we will be as little as possible and that the public does not see what happens to culture in the Republic of Croatia in 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48815	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48816	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. So since this law applies exclusively to the city of Dubrovnik, that it applies exclusively to the city walls, that it refers to the institution, the Institute for Reconstruction of the City of Dubrovnik, so it is precisely concrete and regulates the issue of maintaining the city's antiquities in the city of Dubrovnik and the work of the institution itself. I'd be interested in two things. Did the City Council of Dubrovnik give consent to such a bill? That's one question. The second question is whether it is reducing the share of Dubrovnik-Neretva County owned by the Dubrovnik Institute for Reconstruction whether the mayor of Dubrovnik or perhaps County, or the Assembly of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, has given consent. And did you, in your opening statement, say one judicial body in the Republic of Croatia, declare this contract to be worthless. Here if you can answer those few questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48817	Next replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48818	Thank you very much. There are few legal proposals, at least that's what I think from the cultural domains of this one time I would say conditionally by an uncultural proposal or by a politically imposed proposal. In fact, I don't understand it, nor does it say here in this bill of law, which is why this law is passed. Is it the Dubrovnik walls that failed? Is it bad governance of the Dubrovnik antiquities society, is it bad work of the institute, is it a lack of financial resources. What's the reason this law is passed? That's the question. Now here we have consequences on page four that law-making will take place. He says passing this law will only arrange a new way of managing the office and nothing more. So this law only provides for a new way of managing the office. If that's why we're here to change the new way we run this office, then this law really has nothing to do with the cultural proposal, but it's something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48819	And Jasen Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48820	Thank you. The Republic was partly presented by a well-respected colleague, Bacic, but I will repeat once the judicial authority has assessed that it is a worthless contract. We can see from the annexes that the same annexes on that contract were signed by the current mayor. He certainly didn't think of it at the time when he signed something that was worthless because otherwise he wouldn't have signed it as an interpretation. And what I particularly want to say is that the same principle or similar principle was applied very recently in Sibenik where it was actually given to the management of cultural well-being of an NGO with the duty to justify it. It is absolutely good to refer to the Constitution, because when we want to establish the fundamental property of cultural goods in the Republic of Croatia, then ownership is always really the Republic of Croatia – so the Republic of Croatia. The law on the protection and preservation of cultural goods has a special head that refers to giving in the concession it should be on, and evidence that this is one of the systems that has been applied for decades even the communist authorities of the 60s and 70s did not in any way want to disabling the tradition of maintaining the walls of the city of Dubrovnik since '69. A year. It's been decades. Under the law, however, they were not bound by public procurement, but it might be good to introduce them. And so I don't understand who can professionally say that until today these monuments are not well restored, and I'm going to remind you of the '79 earthquake. years of war destruction in the Homeland War protected UNESCO's entire. Those pictures went around the world. After that, the work of course was well restored in the best professional and possible way. Therefore, there is no professional justification for this law, but nothing at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48821	Thank you. The answer to the replica Berislav Šipush, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48822	The questions asked by Mr. Bacic and Mr. Mesic. Let me rephrase it then. The question is any one of these, which body, just as I say, took a look at this contract. Therefore, during the debate or work on the proposal of this law, the State Attorney's Office has been consulted, which gave its opinion on the contract that it is worthless by referring to Article 391 of the Law on Property and other real rights. As regards the 10% stake now proposed in this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the restoration of the threatened monumental whole of Dubrovnik, it was a public debate. The County of Dubrovnik-Neretva was invited to participate in the debate but we did not get their answer and attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48823	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Dunja Špoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48824	The Vice-Presidents, distinguished colleagues and colleagues of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 27th session held on 11 June 2013 the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the restoration of the endangered monumental unit of Dubrovnik. Certain comments and proposals have been made in the debate. It is the opinion of individual committee members that the proposed solutions to the legislative proposal are not good and that they need to be further regulated, primarily by the provisions of the legislative proposal governing a new way of managing the office. In order to address the above issues and remove certain doubts raised during the debate, the Committee unanimously took the view that it will hold a thematic session on the proposal during the period between the two readings of the law. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the restoration of the endangered monumental unit of Dubrovnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48825	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, President Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48826	Dear Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction at its 20th session held on 11 and 12 June in accordance with Article 83 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as the home working body held a debate on this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconstruction of the Threatened Monumental Generation of Dubrovnik. In the opening statement, the proposing representative pointed out that this proposal regulates a new way of managing the office, amends the composition of the expert-consultation committee, changes the management and management authority of the Dubrovnik portification systems and changes the way in which the institutions are financed. In the discussion, the Committee also held written remarks from the Institute for Reconstruction of Dubrovnik as well as written remarks from the Association of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities who made their own views and suggestions. The debate also noted that the source of funding for the restoration of this urban unit, which is under the protection of UNESCO, was badly injured in the '79 earthquake. Years and extra in war aggression in '91, '92. how it should be financed not only from the urban budget but also from the state budget. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion adopting the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the restoration of the endangered heritage and that opinions, objections and proposals were presented in the debate to the proposer in order to draw up a final proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48827	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature, President of the Committee Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48828	I would like to thank Mrs Vice-President, my dear colleagues and colleagues of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, on the basis of Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as an interested working body. In the opening explanation of the proposer's representatives, she pointed out that the proposed law regulates a new way of managing the Dubrovnik Institute for Reconstruction, proposes to amend the composition of the Professional Advisory Committee in the Institute, to amend the management and management powers of the Dubrovnik City Walls and to finance the Dubrovnik Institute for Reconstruction. The Committee was attended by the president of the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik, who presented observations to the proposed law, which was addressed by the Society in written form to the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. He pointed out that the Association of Friends of the Dubrovnik Antiquity The Association of Civil Society is over 60 years old and manages Dubrovnik and stone walls as well as other objects of the cultural historical heritage of the Dubrovnik Republic and numbers up to 1000 members. The management and management of the city walls is regulated by a contract concluded between the city of Dubrovnik as the owner of the walls on the one hand and the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities on the other. The contract was amended and supplemented in 2009 by the decision of the City Council of Dubrovnik. According to that contract, all revenue generated from the city walls by the end of 2019 is the income of companies. Of these revenues, 50% of the company pays to the city of Dubrovnik under the same contract. From the income generated by the city walls, society invests in the preservation of heritage and spends some more than 40 employees involved in receiving 750 thousand to 800 thousand visitors on an annual basis. The management of the company operates on a voluntary basis. Last year, for example, a total of 50 million kunas of revenue were made, which the company shares with the city of Dubrovnik in a 50-50% ratio according to the contract. The president of the company stressed that the proposed law terminates a concrete contract between the city of Dubrovnik and society and that such a formulated law assumes the role of a powerful verdict. By virtue of the proposed law, a valid legal business shall be put outside the scope of the proposed law. The company undertakes to hand over the company’s entire documentation in the possession of the city of Dubrovnik as well as the entire foundation of the valid contract legally acquired funds. They shall be deleted in accordance with the contract and the law of the registered land-booking rights of the society without any right to appeal and a fair trial. Finally, the president of the company pointed out that the proposed law is unacceptable from a constitutional and legal aspect and, in case the Government insists on its adoption, the announced constitutional action of the company. He stressed that the fact that the contract was concluded by the end of 2019 also raises the question of compensation to society. Following the opening argument in the debate, it was pointed out that the Republic of Croatia has ratified the European Charter of Local Self-Government and that, in accordance with that document, it is necessary to ensure the free exercise of their competence and respect for the principle of local self-government established by the Constitution and internal legislation. In this respect, the proposal and adoption of such a law concerning property issues owned by a local self-government unit without the participation of a local level constitutes a direct violation of that European Charter. It is pointed out that consultation with the public interested in this law was carried out during the period when the City Council of Dubrovnik and the County Assembly of Dubrovnik-Neretva County were disbanded because of local elections and could therefore not take part in the public debate on the proposed law. This team is given more meaning if it is taken into account that the provisions of this law also propose to change the founding shares of Dubrovnik-Neretva County in Dubrovnik's Institute for Reconstruction from 20 to 10%, and without the fact that the County Assembly of Dubrovnik-Neretva County and the City Council of Dubrovnik was manifested. It is expressed dissent under the proposed law by which a unilateral act by the executive body without the right to conduct a legally implemented procedure places one valid legal transaction concluded between third parties in accordance with the applicable legislation. It has been pointed out that the provisions of the proposed law are affecting the independence of the judiciary. It has been observed that in this way the Government of the Republic of Croatia is practically taking over funds realised by the management and management of assets that are not owned by it, since funds and transactions are transferred to an institution that is mostly owned by the Republic of Croatia. During the debate, the members of the committee were asked by the president of the company for further clarifications related to the number of members of the company, the company’s employees and the availability of financial resources. The debate expressed satisfaction with the work of society so far on the preservation of Dubrovnik city walls. On the basis of the debate conducted, which raises the question of the proposed law from the point of view of its constitutionality and legality, it was indicated that it should be affected by the independence of the judiciary and proposed that the Committee draw a conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would propose that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the restoration of the endangered monumental unit be withdrawn from the procedure and requested the position of the City Council of Dubrovnik and the County Assembly of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. That proposal is not supported because 4 votes voted in favour and 5 members against. Afterwards, the Committee decided to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Assembly by 5 votes in favour of and 4 votes, the amendment law and amendments of the Law on the restoration of the endangered monumental part of Dubrovnik, any objections to the proposals and opinions submitted in the debate, will be addressed to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48829	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first is the club of representatives of the HNS and colleagues Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48830	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Your Honor, Deputy Assistant Minister of Culture. So the basic problem this law wants to address is the problem of non-transparent spending money. Namely, the association often mentioned, which currently manages Dubrovnik's monumental unit, has not yet laid down any bills for the tickets sold and the revenues achieved. All the works carried out were also negotiated and conducted without competition. To be honest with you only as a side note, the question is at all sustainable that the association controls the monument of the zeroth category that is on UNESCO's World Heritage List. You'll have the right to a replica. In other words, 50% of the income so far has been spent completely non-transparently primarily because the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities does not fall under the Public Procurement Act, there is no control. And what this law foresees in this sense is the next transfer of 50% of the revenue from tickets to Dubrovnik's Institute of Reconstruction, which is a requirement of the Public Procurement Act, and that is one of the key differences between the solution so far and the new solution. This ensures more transparent and rational spending of money. What should be pointed out is that according to article 16 of the Law, the Association of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities remains represented by the expert advisory commission for the reconstruction of Dubrovnik where there is a guaranteed representative. The deputy minister has also talked about the fact that in the meantime the whole story was actually agreed on by a contract that does not meet the rules of the Republic of Croatia, so it is something that needs to be fixed and changed. Now, I would ask the representatives of the ministry just to pay attention to a few specific suggestions relating to certain provisions of this law. Article 32, which amends Article 43.zacon in paragraph 2 provides that the city of Dubrovnik provides for funds of 50% of the total net revenue from tickets to the Dubrovnik Reconstruction Office after the adoption of the budget for the current year. What is not quite clear from this formulation as to how this will work, so whether the city must predetermin the funds because if it has to predetermin the funds, the question is, on what basis will be the assessment of the revenue of the year to come. So that's something that should be specified. Article 36 of the Law states in paragraph 4 that the company of a friend of Dubrovnik's antiquity is obliged to surrender to the possession of an old wall marked as a cadastrian particle number 2642/1, however, that said cadastrian particle covers only about one quarter of the Dubrovnik Walls. Therefore, our proposal is to prescribe that the entire fortification system of the city of Dubrovnik should be handed over. In the same Article 36a, paragraph 9, there is also no time limit within which the company is to be handed over to the city unexpended funds for reconstruction. The fact is that paragraph 4 of the same article sets out a period of 15 days from the entry into force of the law but it seems to us that it would not be by chance since two different paragraphs are concerned so that we do not put into a situation of different interpretations and different interpretations of this law should also, in paragraph 9, enter a deadline for the transfer of unexpended funds or paragraph 4 and 9 should... in any event, avoid any possibility of different interpretations and interpretation within which period unexpended financial resources should be transferred. And to conclude, with this bill, and that is its basic intensity, I can no longer remember who asked but its basic intensity to ensure a more transparent and rational management and primarily spending of money when it comes to the monumental whole of the city of Dubrovnik. On the one hand, this will be achieved by introducing the provisions of the public procurement law into this whole process which so far has not been in force, and on the other hand by the composition and careful selection of members as well as by the Administrative Council of Dubrovnik's Institute for Reconstruction and its expert advisory commission. And I probably don't have to stress specifically that the HNS will, of course, accept this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48831	Thank you very much. Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48832	And I don't know, there's a lot of it. My colleague, the monuments of the zero category don't exist, it's an old provision that was in the law of the '70s and the '80s, there's something called a national list or a monument listed on UNESCO's list. If they handed over the entire fortification system, it would go from bridge to Lazareth to second bridge plus isolated fortresses that are not in the fortification system, the question is how would it end all together. Therefore, it is in a professional sense impossible to implement. If there's so much to public procurement, we've always been for public procurement, so make an annex to contracts, so let's say from this amount can be answered if it's up to it, and it's not up to it, but to patching up the city budget, to that. And speaking of transparency, why don't we get a report on spending the monumental rent for years in the city of Dubrovnik which is one of the largest in Croatia. The obligation under the law is to spend monumental spending exclusively on the restoration of cultural goods. Even in the case of Dubrovnik, it would be in the favor of, say, the old infrastructure within the walls being restored from these funds because it is beneath the monumental unit and, of course, if it is not restored that it can suffer the monumental unit. Why is the city, which is one of the few UNESCO cities, still has no management plan required by the Convention, of the UNESCO Convention on Cultural Goods, which is on the world's representative list. We haven't moved here in five years. Do you know that by procedure so-called. The procedure... that city has no procedure in the case of fires and natural disasters, yet. It's a concern for cultural well-being, not a transfer from the civil society association to your portfolio, and then you'll determine it. After all, for every job that has been done, the competent conservation service has been given consent di is prescribed how it must be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48833	Thank you. Replication response, Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48834	Thank you, Madam Vice President. As far as zero categories are concerned, you have a partial right but since this is not a set of cultural employees, I was so free to use a term that is somehow generally accepted and known in some way to everyone and I think that we can agree in that sense. As for the entire fortification system of the city of Dubrovnik, ok, I would not enter into this debate to which home number this is going, but what I have said and what is certainly not acceptable is that only one quarter of the system is marked as what the law refers and in this sense I have given a suggestion to the proposing representative to further clarify and edit this. And there's something else I wanted what you last said, but in the meantime I forgot, so it's my fault and it's my fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48835	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48836	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, the esteemed MP Coleman said there was a reason for transparency. It is clear to all of us that it is not a reason for transparency, the reason is that one association of civil society that has been very successful for decades in maintaining Dubrovnik's antiquities, mainly walls, is kidnapped and that the revenues they have had and used exclusively for maintenance, except for the current costs of these walls, are actually poured into the city budget. But let's make a comparison. When, on the occasion of the second round of local elections, Culture Minister Andreja Zlatar came to Sibenik, she came to support, of course, the CNS before the elections, but she also visited the Sibenik fortress, including the fortress of Barone, and for her, the Ministry of Culture approved the money to build a project to bring the fortress to tourist exploitation, which is absolutely commendable. The money was given by the Ministry of Culture to the Juraj Dalmatinac Association, a group of young people who care for Sibenik and again, and that is very positive. Now, on the one hand, we have the situation of young people in Sibenik who are just beginning to act, who can get state money for the Barone fortress management project 150 thousand kunas to start with and where it is commendable and where it is being stimulated, so one non-governmental civil society, and on the other hand we have one NGO that has been working very successfully for decades, which is said to be all non-transparent, that it should be crushed, that this should be taken away, etc. I don't see any logic here, and the parallel is absolutely present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48837	Replication response, Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48838	So only very short on rationality, i.e. primarily transparency. The problem with the way we've managed so far is that we don't even know how much money was made, how much money was available, how much money went for that purpose, how much money went for other purposes, how much money was spent on things that weren't meant for the work of the association and the scope of the work, etc. And in that sense, and in the end, we all know, both of us here, and in that sense it needs to change, and to us, this seems to be a better model, a more transparent model, and ultimately it will probably prove to be a more rational model.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48839	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48840	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colman, first of all, none of the members of the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities are against transparency in the spending of funds and incomes realised using these same walls. The question is whether we are then interested in how the city and whether the city purposely invests its 50% of the funds that society has passed on to it and which society makes by its work by providing visits to these same walls. And the third thing, the Public Procurement Act is exactly what is required of implementing the Public Procurement Act. If we are guided by your logic that we will pass this law only because the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities does not carry out public procurement when it maintains city walls or when it regulates, performs some activities on city walls, some works and conservatory ones, then that same logic should cancel all concession contracts for all marinas in Croatia and even those marinas that are owned by ACI, which are in concession. Namely, after winning the competition for the concession of maritime goods and the port of nautical tourism, a legal person who generates revenues on the same maritime good that is the same public good in general does not need to carry out public procurement for the means to continue doing some projects on that same maritime good. Therefore, if we draw the parallel, then we should terminate all concession contracts and not only on maritime goods but also on any other contracts that are owned by a specific legal person or a natural person through the lease, rental or concession of general goods in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the argument that we should change the law absolutely does not stand. There's something else here. Here, the funds entered into by a valid contract are used by the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities for any other needs, whether it's a city budget patching up or something else to ask your mayor about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48841	The answer to Igor Coleman's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48842	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The first part, I fully agree that all actors in the process need both the city and those who run the walls should be transparent in this and there is no dispute at all. I don't think the criteria should be different for the city and for those who run the walls, and that's where we agree. As far as this comparison of marinas, concessions, maritime well-being, Dubrovnik walls aren't the same thing at all. It's not about the concession, it's not about the Dubrovnik Walls. It's not about the seas. It's not about the seas. I mean, so there's a whole series of differences. So these are two completely incomparable cases. And thirdly, I've kind of pointed out and you've justifiably concentrated on respecting the Public Procurement Act as one of the reasons for introducing these changes, but that's certainly not the only reason. So, the Deputy Minister and I are also probably going to list some other colleagues and now a whole series of other reasons. This is just the one I decided to talk a little louder and louder about, but that's not the only reason away from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48843	And my colleague Davorin Mlakar called, but I don't see him in the hall. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club Frano Matušić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48844	Thank you, Madam Vice President, gentlemen representatives of the Ministry of Culture, colleagues and colleagues. Well, at first I will say that HDZ opposes the adoption of this law because it is absolutely harmful, absolutely harmful not only to the city of Dubrovnik, but to the Republic of Croatia and is harmful to relations in the Republic of Croatia that are based on the Constitution and on positive legal regulations. It is not known either in the theory or in the practice of democratic legal systems that a concrete legal relationship that is fully in line with existing legislation could be abolished by law. In particular, if adopted by that law, it would violate a whole series of both constitutional and legal principles and provisions of the law of the higher order. For example, it should be stated that such a proposed law directly violates the constitutional principle of equality before law and on judicial protection, the constitutional principle of property integrity, as well as the provisions of the Law on Property, the Law on Land Books, the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Law on Trade Relations, the Law on Regional Self-Government, the Law on Founding, etc. etc. So specifically in this example that's ahead of us, we actually have a trick that's trying to counter here. We've seen everyone talk about the Society of Friends of the Dubrovnik Age from now on, and in fact, this law doesn't speak at all about the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquity. He speaks of the Institute for the Reconstruction of the Threatened Monuments of the City of Dubrovnik or as we call it in Dubrovnik talks about Dubrovnik's Institute of Reconstruction, and it is reportedly a reason for better management of this same institution to change this law. However, he is no reason at all. The Institute is a special institution that has done its tasks by virtue of the powers it has received, the basis of a law that takes care of the endangered monumental unit of Dubrovnik and, in fact, is concerned primarily that everything that has been threatened by the 1979 earthquake is being restored, that all houses, all buildings, so everything that is located in the historic core of the city of Dubrovnik, and that has actually not been questionable to anyone so far, nor has it been disputed for anyone. However, the transitional and final provisions of this same bill, which is before us, suddenly introduces the Association of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities, introduces an association, an association of citizens who are being dissuaded, which confiscates the assets of all and money and all that it has. So, one precedent that we could only look at in a truly totalitarian communist regime. Because how else to observe this bill than to return to the old system, back to society totalitarianism. We also have the fact that a representative of the Ministry of Culture tells us that the State's Attorney's office thinks this contract is worthless. He may have the State's Attorney's office's opinion, but this needs to be determined by the court. The state's attorney's office is only one party in the process. We know that the State's Attorney's office has different opinions, but the court is ultimately making a decision on whether a contract is harmful or not. And we can't prejudge court decisions here as prejudged by these articles of this law. The most tragic thing is to introduce the practice of actually making a judicial decision based on this amendment of this law. Therefore, the law is absolutely harmful to the Republic of Croatia because it destroys constitutional principles, endangers something that should not be touched at all. What is the reason, rightly appointed by a colleague, I think Grubisic, what is the reason for this? Better governance of an institution called Dubrovnik Renewal Institute. Well, that really doesn't make any sense. It's not even that reason. The reason is, we can look for a reason among those arguments already established by fellow MPs, which is, for example, the financing of the City Budget of Dubrovnik, although these funds should be intended under all regulations and should be spent exclusively in the restoration of cultural monuments. The society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquity does not only care about the walls of the city of Dubrovnik, it also takes care of other monuments that are related to the culture and history of the city of Dubrovnik, such as the stone walls, such as the Falcon Tower in Konavla, such as the prince's court in Slano, etc. So he cares about the legacy of Croatia and the legacy that we can recognize as the Dubrovnik Republic. So all these monuments are taken care of by society. And he's been worried since 1952. And he absolutely enjoys his reputation in the city of Dubrovnik no matter who's leading today. I don't want to be here as a lawyer of the Society of Friends of the Dubrovnik Age or the people who run it today, I want to say it right now. Although transparency needs to be improved I am convinced that they will be for more transparent management and that they are certainly ready and responsible for everything they have done through society. But to say that the introduction of this law, that is, these amendments concerning the Dubrovnik Institute for the sake of transparency in the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquity, are truly absurd. So it's two special institutions. One is an association of citizens, and the other is Dubrovnik Reconstruction Institute. So what do we do now? We, by this law, are actually giving up financing the reconstruction of the city of Dubrovnik, which has been in the state budget every year. With this law, the state ceases to finance the reconstruction of the city of Dubrovnik and its endangered monumental unit. By this law, the funds that have so far been received by the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities on the basis of visits to the walls, in fact, these 50% of these funds are transferred to the expense of institutions instead of state funds from the Ministry of Culture. Therefore, the state shows one great concern by denying participation in the restoration of the endangered monumental town of Dubrovnik, which is proud to believe all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so it should be, and obviously not to the pride of the Ministry of Culture. Because based on what is this conclusion? I base this fact that it simply ceases to be financed by the Institute of Reconstruction. It will only be financed in case the revenues from the walls subvert as it says here in the bill. Furthermore, I think it is clear to everyone that this approach, which the Ministry of Culture has taken, is absolutely inappropriate in today's democratic legal system where it is already prescribed how both financial and other funds and documentation of a citizen association that has its long and positive tradition in the city of Dubrovnik will be taken away. Article 4 introduces a commitment to an institution for which it has not been trained, and moreover, the director of the current institution has also delivered these remarks to the Ministry of Culture because the Institute is not qualified for what will happen in these areas to be renewed and how it will be managed, etc. The Institute is trained to rebuild the monument. It's what the Department of Reconstruction has been trained to do, and it's his day-to-day job. Indeed, this proposal is absolutely, absolutely harmful as I once pointed out. But speaking of transparency, let's talk about the monumental rent, let's talk about Dubrovnik City's monumental rent. Where's she spent, what monument? We don't have a report. Reports exist from the Association of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities, and these reports go to the city of Dubrovnik, City Council. Let's not tell the truth, so there are reports. Did they spend how they spent money? If someone suspects something illegal, then there are institutions that can handle it. There are contract annexes if it is to impose an obligation on the association, as counterpart Bačić has already said, and many other institutions in Croatia do not use the Institute of Public Procurement because they are not bound by law and neither does this association. But if that obligation is already to be imposed, then it could simply be made an annex of the contract with the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik and impose that obligation that I believe they would certainly accept. So far, however, no one has ever said that this is a problem. The problem is quite elsewhere, I have already said that this problem is obviously also related to particular party interests in this case of the CNS and that it is in fact a completely non-democratic proposal. This is a non-democratic proposal that cannot be accepted in any part or in principle because it is truly absolutely harmful. One more thing, here in the introduction of paragraph 3 of this bill, you have the Ministry's view that no additional funds are necessary for the implementation of this law. We can't know that right now. If there is indeed a court case that is very easy to assume will come to the question is in fact what will happen to the means with which the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik has antiquity, with the documentation with which it is available, etc. And if it's really going to take money, we'll see it in court then. I hope that the Ministry of Culture, however, since this is the first reading that the Ministry of Culture still has enough reason and I appeal on behalf of the HDZ Club to simply withdraw this law from the agenda because it absolutely does not solve or improve the issue of the operation of the Dubrovnik Reconstruction Institute. He is indeed trying to solve something called the relationship of the city and the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities in a completely unacceptable, inappropriate and unconstitutional and illegal way. And I am indeed calling for reason to approach this problem and to find a solution within the current legal solutions to leave to the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities the possibility to continue to manage the walls and other objects that are related to the cultural heritage of the city of Dubrovnik because it has so far shown one great seriousness in this and from its founder, Mrs. Lukša Beretic, who founded this society and who was an enthusiast who loved the city of Dubrovnik as we all believe it, especially us who were down and born and who truly deserved to continue living and care for the walls together with the city council and the Ministry of Culture. But let's not give up funding for the Dubrovnik and Walls by the Ministry of Culture. Dubrovnik is very threatened in an area that is indeed affected by the earthquake. He survived the 1667 earthquake of very, very damaged and this 1979, which also further scattered and damaged him, survived the Homeland War of the Serbian and Montenegrin aggressors that bombed the historic core of the city of Dubrovnik, which fell to thousands of missiles burning 9 palaces. Unfortunately, perhaps we should have left one of the palaces so burned to see these clues because today you can only see on the facades of the Franciscan Church or the Church of St. Rescue or cathedrals you can see the remains of the gellers from the missiles that fell across the city but everything else was restored to all happiness by the citizens of Dubrovnik, but perhaps for the sake of historical memory it should have left one palace so burned up to know what these barbarians were doing along the way saying that they would build more beautiful and older Dubrovnik, as they were then saying. So here it is questionable and founding stakes, namely the county absolutely disagreed or could decide in this process because the city council and the county assembly were both disbanded for local elections. So the county I was hearing from today with the mayor... He spoke about the issue today on a local radio station about the proposal and is absolutely unacceptable to the County of Dubrovnik-Neretva, such a proposal for founding stakes. But the question arises at all, the purpose of this law, which deprives the state of funds that should go in favour of the restoration of cultural monuments, while retaining all rights related to the appointment of directors or the appointment of members of the Board of Directors of Dubrovnik's Institute of Reconstruction. So to this same institution that is raising funds or not giving funds from the state budget that were at a different level, but let's say that last year there were 5.5 million kunas maybe 4.5, 5.5 is an average, so these 5.5 million kunas will not be given to the Dubrovnik Institute, the state will not be participated unless they substitute the proceeds from the visit to the walls, but we hope that this will not happen because this would mean that it has broken down in the tourist sense the city of Dubrovnik and its tourist offer because the walls are certainly the most visited part of the city of Dubrovnik and carry huge revenues. Therefore, what is the purpose of passing the law allegedly for better governance in which the state no longer grants funds to the city of Dubrovnik for the financing and restoration of the monumental heritage, while the state reserves itself the right to appoint three members in the board of directors, retains its right to appoint directors, etc. So what kind of suggestion is this? This is really the opening of Pandora's box that doesn't make any sense or has any real-state resistance at Dubrovnik's Institute of Reconstruction because it's primarily as I see it in the proposal it's a proposal for the Institute for Reconstruction of Dubrovnik, and essentially it solves quite some third questions through transitional and final provisions. I ask you simply to find sufficient reason in the Ministry of Culture and to return to the fact that it is necessary to finance the city of Dubrovnik and the reconstruction of the city of Dubrovnik and the state resources, by means of the Ministry of Culture and not to enter into the resolution of relations between the city and one association in a way that you resolve through the final and transitional provisions of a law governing the administration and management of one other institution entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48845	You'll be able to continue with a lot of replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48846	So we are absolutely inadmissible at the HDZ Club this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48847	We're moving on to replicas, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48848	Your Honor, Madam Vice President. Dear Representative Matušić has asked a rhetorical question of course who needs this law. Well, obviously, there's someone who needs them. Surely they don't need the dublins who care about their heritage. Who needs it? So the budget needs to be budgeted because the budget just now won't be giving the money it's been giving so far, it's very clear. The message of this law is the state budget through the ministry's budget will no longer give anything to rebuild the Dubrovnik walls and antiques. Who needs more? Well, he needs a mayor from the same party as a minister who, of course, makes an excellent entrance to the walls. And as much as the walls and other antiques will be restored, we shall all see it together. I must also say, however, that I am very sorry that this law but it is not usually defended here by the minister but by Professor. You're a bat. He is a poor man always put in the fire and he who I greatly appreciate always comes here, often has to try to defend indefensiblely and this law that is absolutely indefensible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48849	Reply to the replica Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48850	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, you've made it clear that your colleague Reiner actually confirmed those reasons and allegations that I already made in my address but it seems to me that we should appeal if there is already a political agreement in the Kukurik coalition to be violently implemented and this kind of law then it would be good to establish the obligation of the city of Dubrovnik that the funds it receives from being spent on the restoration of cultural monuments and being used in a transparent manner and that the report on these funds is available to the public. But since that's not the case with the monumental rent, even though it should be then I don't expect it to happen. But I agree with you that the ungrateful role of defending this law has fallen to Mr. Shipus, which I certainly hope has nothing to do with this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48851	Replica Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48852	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Matušić, I agree with you that this law does not only harm the city of Dubrovnik but also the Republic of Croatia. In fact, if the law were adopted in such a text, it would, in my opinion, represent a dangerous precedent allowing the executive authority to interfere with the work of the Croatian judiciary. I believe that MPs have read the transitional and final provisions of this law, in particular Article 36, and in particular paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 7. Eight, and nine. When you read these articles in Article 36, you do not know whether you are reading a judgment of a court entitled to a certain person’s possession or whether it is the text of the law itself. In this way, the Committee for the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament, which made the proposal, notes the text of the proposal to the Committee in particular on paragraphs 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, with the proposal that the Proposer should examine them further, since it is indicated that it is part of the provisions of procedural nature which impairs the independence of the judiciary and cannot and cannot be the content of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48853	Reply to the replica Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48854	I agree with you and I am pleased that the Legislative Committee, despite the fact that the majority of the members of the Kukurik coalition have reached one such conclusion, is also saying that there is a sufficient amount of reason among the parliamentary representatives of the majority coalition, which tells them very clearly that what is offered is unacceptable. I warned that this particular article was the 36th thing that had nothing to do with the Dubrovnik Reconstruction Office. Article 36 provides for the confiscation of assets. Well, we're not a court of law. We must make it very clear and loud, regardless, I ask the representatives of the Ministry of Culture to really see the depth of the consequences of this adoption of laws and articles like this. It's just absolutely inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48855	Replica, Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48856	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Matusic, in fact, you've shown yourself now on Article 36 and many of the predecessors have, and it seems to me that even when you said that this law does not actually solve anything for the Dubrovnik Institute, I think you're actually wrong because you and I come from Dubrovnik and we know the value of that institution and we know how much it works and we know how much it works on injecting blocks as the consequences of earthquakes and war destructions, etc. And since members, i.e. representatives of the Institute for Reconstruction, also participated in the drafting of this law, have also sent a lot of remarks, a lot of amendments, and I think a lot of these remarks have been incorporated into this first reading. I think actually that the purpose is to be able to work uninterruptedly at the Institute for Reconstruction is one of them. Therefore, you cannot say that this law does not solve anything good for the Dubrovnik Institute of Reconstruction. Yes, I can certainly work uninterrupted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48857	Reply to the replica Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48858	I don't see any colleagues based on what you've concluded that article 36 has anything to do with the Agency for Reconstruction. It has absolutely nothing to do with the Institute of Reconstruction, nor does it facilitate its activity and daily work. The Institute of Reconstruction is doing a great job in accordance with its capabilities and in line with the finances. The problem is that this law actually disowns the state from co-financing with the restoration of the monumental treasure of the Republic of Croatia and the largest protected UNESCO, which we are all proud of and proud of when the representatives of the Government come to Dubrovnik. That's what this is about. You don't work here, you don't make it easy for the Bureau. The Office shall even object to the introduction of Article 4 which shall impose obligations for which it has not been trained, for which there are neither professional persons nor persons capable of working on those tasks set out in Article 4. The Institute also opposes the fact that the state is no longer financing, that the Ministry of Culture is not financing the reconstruction of the city of Dubrovnik. The Institute also opposes the fact that the funds previously gone, which were originally from the Association of Friends with which it naturally existed in the restoration of the monumental heritage, in the restoration of the monumental core or walls and all that is outside the city as the legacy of the Dubrovnik Republic, and that the Institute is absolutely opposed to being transferred to it as substitute funds for the Ministry of Culture's funds. So I absolutely don't see the basis of what you've concluded that article 36 is actually talking about confiscating the property of the Society of Friends at all helps the Institute of Reconstruction. It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48859	Don't yell from the bench. Take care of it outside the hall. Igor Coleman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48860	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You have repeatedly used the word confiscation in speech and replicas, and yet it seems to me that a little too hard a formulation since the Dubrovnik Walls are not the property of the association, they are the property of the city of Dubrovnik. So there's no talking about confiscation or the incomes are the property of the association, but they're the property of those who own the walls. Right? So it's not about confiscation. Second. Thesis one very, very dangerous thesis and very wrong here is going through your speech, as well as through the speeches of your predecessors, or the replicas of your predecessors, but I will not answer this about the alleged need to fill the budget of the city of Dubrovnik. This year, the city of Dubrovnik decided to increase the budget due to a 5.6m kuna surplus in the past year. Therefore, the Dubrovnik City budget is one of the most successful budgets in the Republic of Croatia, including the budget of the Republic of Croatia itself. So there is no talk of any need to fill the Dubrovnik budget from additional sources. And thirdly, Article 36 seems to me that, in fact, of course your right is and it is not impossible that you are wrong, but Article 36 of my perspective does not at all act as a court ruling. For me, Article 36 acts as a serious, well written, thorough article that rules out the procedure of this very important procedure in all steps, which is therefore the transfer of governance over the Dubrovnik walls. And I don't see any judgments and no confiscation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48861	Replication response, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48862	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, we're not colleagues of the City Council to discuss the City of Dubrovnik Budget, but I'll just say that there are also great debts and duties of the city of Dubrovnik to discuss, and then you'll see the state of the city's budget and what are the obligations and incomes. But it is certain that the city of Dubrovnik wants to have these resources, in which way we will see more. In any case, when you talk about article 36, what would be more than a confiscation when you have to hand over money intended for the restoration of old walls that have not yet been spent for that purpose? The company has these resources and these are the company's incomes based on the contract it has with the city of Dubrovnik. And the contract has never been questioned before or even in 2009 when it changed with an annex. All the comments they had were able to solve with annexes, and I am convinced that society would also agree to such a solution for the simple well-being of the city and citizens of Dubrovnik and all visitors visiting the city of Dubrovnik. But to say that this is not a confiscation is simply not true. This is a classic confiscation of the property of an association of citizens who has the right to all according to law. And this is one precedent that can be spilled to every citizen association tomorrow because there's no reason why this doesn't change tomorrow to another citizen association, like sports or cultural, etc. So tomorrow someone will come here to the Croatian Parliament through the transitional and final provisions of some amendment to the laws of the Ministry of Culture will confiscate the property of any association of citizens, cultural art society I don't know from Osijek, now I'm pounding on my mind, of course to be picturesque. But it's simply inappropriate to confiscate the property of an association in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48863	Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48864	Dear fellow I think I agree with most of what you have said but you have also mentioned very well Article 4 that the Institute is not qualified to act in accordance with Article 4. But look at this situation, Article 2 is deleted and remains only a monumental unit. Article 3 of the Law states that it will be refurbished alongside buildings and spaces within a monumental unit and a new Law on Spatial Planning and Construction is being introduced. And Law 4 says it will go to the purpose training of buildings and the introduction of new content as a whole in accordance with existing spatial planning documents. My colleague, is there a possible construction intervention in the Gustery area according to these articles? This opens up the possibility that in the space of a denser part where there are old ruins within the whole of a new building and that it is carried out by the institution. Because it's no longer about the endangered monumental unit of what the Bureau was doing before and in space. There's a new building that can appear in the Gustrin space. Culturocide! Don't, when you vote most of the time, this law, don't accidentally give you any new economic purposes on the walls, don't by any chance. That hasn't happened in Dubrovnik in hundreds of years. Don't let such purposes come to your attention and one day it'll come out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48865	Thank you very much. Replication response, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48866	Thank you. You have rightly noticed that I have repeatedly warned about Article 4 and the fact that the Dubrovnik Reconstruction Institute is not actually qualified to carry out these other activities. These other activities are listed here in Article 4, hence economic, cultural and other activities. It means everything and everything. What, what other activities? I think the Dubrovnik Reconstruction Institute should simply take care of what it was created for, and it is simply to make sure that all the buildings in the city of Dubrovnik are seismically established, which is his primary task and that the facilities that were threatened in the city of Dubrovnik were either with earthquakes, or on the side of the bombing that was in the Homeland War, etc. It is clear, therefore, that the Institute must primarily take care of these matters and not some economic, cultural and other activities. The Bureau isn't qualified for it, not at all, in any way. And it's... the institution. And don't, I mean I've appealed to the Ministry to change that article, but also to change others, or to withdraw this law. It would be the best solution and only the right solution to withdraw this law. If the ministry will solve the question between the city of Dubrovnik and the Association of the Association of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities, let them sort it out in some other way, let them call them to rest or I don't know what, or let them use an annex contract, let it be left to the City Council and the Association of Friends.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48867	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48868	Thank you very much. I was going to say this last sentence of yours. In fact, this legal proposal I think should have been well searched first and made a deal in Dubrovnik itself. And that would be what wouldn't actually require a debate especially not such a heated debate at the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. But speaking of discussion, then I must agree with both you and some other speakers that applying Article 4. which here says that the Institute for Reconstruction will be able to bring solutions to the introduction of new content, beware of the new content that comes from modern needs, and we know what needs are, says dwellings in Dubrovnik. Soon we will turn Dubrovnik, Dubrovnik Walls and Spaces into Diocletian's Palace in Split, which is controlled only by the air from the orthographic video that it was once some kind of palace in that place. And actually, the Splits have lived there for hundreds of years. And the second thing I was going to say is, it's true that it's a confiscation of the property of the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities, it's exactly what it says here in this law. And then I'm not going to tell the devil that implementing this law doesn't require funds. So they are not necessary when taken, so even money is confiscated that is not spent by the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquity. This is really a bit funny and I think that Dubrovnik lords or the Society of Dubrovnik Ancients who are themselves their very existence is a cultural heritage of both Dubrovnik and Croatia, as we have in Kotor Bokeljska Navy etc. And so this Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities is by itself the heritage, their existence, their name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48869	Reply to the replica Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48870	I agree with you especially with this latest finding that society absolutely deserves a completely different relationship because it has so far shown that this relationship and deserves because the work so far on rebuilding the walls and the Stone Walls and everything they have restored has proved to be very much concerned about the historical heritage to care for cultural monuments and deserve to continue to manage both these funds and manage them. Should there be greater transparency if nobody should mind, I say, and I believe they have no doubt in society either, and therefore there are some other institutions. Maybe you're right when I talk about some other purposes of space about allegedly modern housing needs, etc. Maybe you're right. But I might not be going so far at this point because I still want to believe that this expert advisory council that worked before at the Institute of Reconstruction would not allow that kind of thing. I want to believe that there will be really real representatives of certain professions who will also care about this monumental heritage, but I am saying that you are more right than I am about to do so by leaving this issue of purpose and the future of these same spaces absolutely open. Given everything that happens in the Republic of Croatia, I would not be surprised if it tried to happen in the city of Dubrovnik, which is very interesting for different types of jobs and then, in that sense, quite certainly for various manipulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48871	And Jozo Radosh replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48872	A colleague of Matusic's organizations exist to achieve some group interests and some group visions and generally have a partial action and a very high freedom of action under our laws. And I believe you agree with me that the Dubrovnik Walls and the rest of the historical walls around Dubrovnik are the highest historical value we should have under special care. And, if I understand correctly, you are therefore advocating this highest value to remain under the management of an association that has a very free mode of action, without public procedures, without verification, without proper business control, and the legitimately elected democratic bodies of the city, the county and the state should put aside in such an important business. Isn't that advocating bad governance? And if there is a danger of some deformation, which my colleague Mesic spoke of here unnecessarily about and the construction of economic facilities on the walls, then there is a greater danger of this happening in such poor management conditions than that it is managed by the Institute for the Reconstruction of Dubrovnik, which is a public body. Therefore, the public body is not qualified to manage such a valuable potential of a single state, and the association of citizens is therefore qualified. It's not a logical situation, and you stand up for it. This is how these valuable potential cities of Dubrovnik can be managed badly. And the question to you, what did you read about the fact that there was some partial interest of the CNS in this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48873	Reply to the replica Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48874	Well, this is the last one, so from the fact that these funds will be managed by your mayor of HNS if such a legal proposal is adopted. So it's quite clear that the interest is primarily of the CNS and it's his personal interest that he pushed through the Ministry of Culture. But fellow Rados, if it were as you say, if you really had such an attitude that Dubrovnik's Memorial heritage, its walls and what has been managed so far by the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities, then you would probably have taken up that the Ministry of Culture remains a financier of these same works, works in the restoration of all the monuments because this proposal foresees that the Ministry of Culture no longer finance the restoration of the Dubrovnik Walls or the restoration of other monumental heritage that is related to the society of friends. The second thing, the society of friends in its 61st history has never been on the stage of shame over the actions of its members. Is the current management of society worth all the praise, I can't tell you at this point if there are any doubts etc. Then you need to question it, question it, and see what it's all about. But so far, society has absolutely shown and justified its existence. Had it not been for this society, there would have been no regrettable awareness in the communist system of the importance of preserving such cultural monuments. You know that's what this is about. This society has certainly justified its existence through its sixty-one-year history and never, I say, has never been on a pillar of shame and today, here, through this law, here the proposal for a change appeals to some stage of shame society that truly deserves all the praise for the 60-year care of the antiquities, i.e. the monuments of culture in the city of Dubrovnik and outside the city of Dubrovnik, I said in the area of the former Dubrovnik Republic. So, I think it's clear to everyone that it's smart enough, and I believe that it will also be from these arguments enough and to the Ministry of Culture to withdraw this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48875	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists – Labour parties Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48876	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister of Culture, colleagues and fellow MPs. We've had all kinds of laws so far. Some are known for their specifics, good and bad solutions. We also called some different names than real names. So we had, for example, Zmailović's Law on Cemeteries, Komadina's Law on Mayors. We currently have a valid lex Perkovic law on a European arrest warrant, and this law could be called by the current mayor of Dubrovnik Vlahusic's law. It does not seem to matter whether the law is right or not, it is important that it achieves the goal of whether it is written to someone else, even if it was bad, and its provisions questionable and possibly harmful. So I wonder what the aim of this law is and whether it offers better solutions, preserving the historical core of Dubrovnik or whether its objectives are something else. I haven't found anything on the grounds of a major change in the law. Whether the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities did not take good care of the walls of Dubrovnik or there are certain irregularities in their work. On the draft law, there are a lot of objections from the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. It means the law isn't right. It seems to me that the only thing good about this law is that it goes into regular procedure and into two readings. In this case, I hope that changes in the interest and preservation of Dubrovnik's historic core, which are protected by UNESCO and our most valuable tourist destination, will continue until the second reading. For decades, Dubrovnik walls have been run by the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik Ancients, which was founded since 1952. This year's walls are breaking visitors' records, with 50,000 tourists visiting them more than last year in the first seven months. Last year, the company recorded 776000 tickets sold, and this year that number should be around 850,000 visitors. This visit can be particularly satisfying with Finance Minister Slavko Linic because, on this basis, significant funds, somewhere around 10 000 million kunas were received in, ten million pardon kunas. Last year, around 50 million kuna of tickets sold were totaled. According to a contract with the city of Dubrovnik, 20 million kunas divided the city and the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities. Of all things, out of this income, the company paid 20 million kuna for all the material costs, the cost of 40 employees, and the rest was allocated for the restoration of cultural monuments. According to some calculations in the last three years, some 140 million kunas have been paid by visitors to the walls. The Society spent about 45 million kuna on the restoration of monuments in those three years. Whether that's enough or not, I don't know, but there are various controls that can also determine the transparency of spending money. Some new tourist attractions of Dubrovnik and its surroundings have also been opened and Sokol town in Konavla has been renovated. Society also takes care of the Stone Walls, which also record a number of visitors, as previously mentioned. I failed to find the information that was done by the city of Dubrovnik in the preservation and protection of this monument of culture. The Law on the restoration of endangered monumental culture, the cultural whole of Dubrovnik, regulates the area of monumental integrity as well as other immovable cultural goods to which the provisions of this law apply. It is prescribed that the restoration of the monumental unit will ensure the preservation of its original urban and architectural monumental artistic aesthetic features, and according to this constructive and dedicated training of buildings for permanent use, as well as the introduction of new content. What new content? Don't talk about anything. I'm not sure this is going to happen, and the walls could only remain gold coke for the larger budget of the city of Dubrovnik for the solution offered. I also have to ask the question of why the Old Friends Society has not done well so far that instead of him the walls should be cared for by a new guardian of the Dubrovnik Rehabilitation Office because it is the most important change in this law. It is not disputed that part of the text of the law is not in line with other regulations, so it is used as a headship, and the wrong names of the ministry that no longer exist. In that part, nothing is disputed and these provisions need to be harmonised. But whether this alignment is just a means to reach the target time will show. The law also changes the provision on founding stakes in a way that the founders of the institute be the Republic of Croatia with a share of 60% and so far, Dubrovnik with a share of 30% and Dubrovnik-Neretva County with a share of 10%. These changes only determine that the city has 10% higher and the county has 10 or less founding shares. I ask the question why and what do you get with it? The following changes are the number of members of the Governing Council where with 5 members so far, they increase to 7 members. This is essentially what we can call cosmetic changes and I wonder if these changes will be better and better quality wall management? Because there's not a word to explain the amendments to the law. What's important and questionable changes, these are... Because the Dubrovnik Reconstruction Institute will be financed by the funds provided in the Dubrovnik City Budget of 50% of the total net income the city receives from the sale of tickets for the tour of the city walls. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And a very important change is that we need to remove the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities to collect revenue from tickets and pay taxes to the state, but the city of Dubrovnik needs to get all these funds. For them to move obstacles is a contract that they have until 2019 to take care of the walls. And there are provisions of Article 36 that are questionable and that have been talked about here. I also join those who said it was a kind of confiscation because from the day of entry into force of this law without legal effect, all legal transactions have been concluded for the purpose of managing and using or managing old walls. Yes, the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities is obliged to hand over ownership of the city of Dubrovnik's old wall within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this law with complete documentation. What no one has ever accepted in the law to impose on the book of extension rights for the benefit of Dubrovnik’s friends. The question arises whether the law can abolish a contract that society has until 2019, and which all the working bodies of the Assembly warn of as an unacceptable solution. These are the reasons why I think the proposed law can only create problems with its provisions, and Dubrovnik walls are a very important tourist attraction for which we must take serious care. If the purpose of amending the law is not to care about Dubrovnik walls but to divide prey which has become a significant financial amount, it would be best for this law to be withdrawn from the procedure and only to carry out technical harmonisation. Or offer a solution that has its purpose, arguments and facts for better management of Dubrovnik walls as the greatest treasure of our culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48877	Thank you very much. We're moving on to replicas. Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48878	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You explained the purpose and the adoption of this law well, and with you remained doubts which are the real reasons why this law is going into effect. So that's what the members of the Dubrovnik Ancient Society ask themselves that after 45 years of city walls management are now going to change the law to remove them from the position they are now corresponding to and editing the walls and in a certain way to visit these same walls. Namely, one of the reasons they say can be this: the fact is that according to the current contract between the city and society for the next 6 years there is no additional commercialisation of Dubrovnik walls. For the company will continue to carry out its part of the work under that contract. However, if this law is passed and this contract is put out of effect then it is entirely possible to further commercialise these same city walls and that the city of Dubrovnik can then, on that space, what Mr Mesic mentioned earlier, mentioning an example of a gustery so that it can go into further commercialisation so that some other income from these same walls might be realised, not that a society which is a nonprofit organisation continues to take care of these same walls on its own.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48879	Replication response, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48880	Thank you. Comrade Bačić fully agrees with you, this law is quite dangerous when it comes to the Dubrovnik Walls because in the end we cannot know what can finally happen. But the aim of this law is to make money and commercialize business. And I think the best suggestion here is someone said today, the Dubrovnikers should discuss it themselves and decide what kind of wall management they want. I think the point of all of this is that these provisions in the law are too dangerous and we don't know what might actually happen in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48881	Igor Coleman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48882	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I have to admit that I can't remember the last time we had a discussion about the law of representatives of the three committees who made their point, colleague Špoljar, colleague Ronko, colleague Bačić who, if I remember correctly, had all three said that the law had passed on boards. So, I don't know which way you from that concluded that it was a law that was wrong. Okay, I accept that all these exhibitors had certain suggestions as to the law, but I beg you, we can't have double criteria. You keep asking that the laws go into two and three readings, and then when the law goes into two readings, then the fact that comes from the fact that two readings, which is that the law is being processed, repaired, and that people have suggestions you use as an argument against that law. So if we stick to certain criteria let's just stick to them till the end. And secondly, the word confiscation has been repeated. I really don't understand, but now it's starting to bother me and I have to say that the frequency of using words confiscation further convinces me that something is wrong and that this law has its own justification. Because obviously there are circles that have started the Dubrovnik Walls and the proceeds of the Dubrovnik Walls are considered their own property, so now they see it as a confiscation. Right? So it seems to me that it's really a lot of exaggerated formulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48883	Answer to the replica Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48884	Well, my colleague Coleman, I didn't say that the committees made a decision that they were against, I said to the committees have an objection, and you should make an effort to read what was written in the explanations of individual committees, and then you wouldn't give such replicas. Secondly, as regards the law in two readings, we clearly advocate legal solutions that are in two readings, but sometimes you have solutions of certain laws so that it goes through three readings if already in the first reading he in his proposal is bad. And this law is bad and it offers some solutions quite questionable about managing when it comes to the use of funds and rebuilding the Dubrovnik Walls. These are the reasons that need to be discussed, but beyond that, clearly, some other backgrounds that they are, are exclusively a matter of commercialisation and money. Time will show whether I'm right or wrong then we could analyze what society has done so far and whether it has used transparent money, if it hasn't used transparent money clearly that a certain audit can be launched means that it can and can be determined whether someone's untransparently or illegally spent money and whether they've spent it on purpose for what they were made for. I'd like it to say so, and then we could discuss this law differently and say whether one reading, two readings, or three readings, or even the law withdraws from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48885	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48886	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You were talking about the investments of the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities, you mentioned the same thing about The Tower and the Stone Wall, and that's for every commendation, but then you asked yourself how much the city of Dubrovnik invested in culture. The very intonation of your inquiry was so probably nothing. However, I must tell you here in the name of the truth that in the culture budget this year, the city of Dubrovnik stands out 54 million kuna. So I think it has the largest percapital amount of percapitan in terms of culture. And also in progress is the restoration of Lazarus, which is also worth 30 million kunas. So much for investing in the city of Dubrovnik culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48887	Answer to the replica Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48888	Thank you. Well, colleagues Bonačić, I don't know, and I'm glad you told me how much the city of Dubrovnik spends on culture, but there are Dubrovnik Summer Games and there are other things. How much does it cost to rebuild antiquities in Dubrovnik? Yeah, I didn't know that. I asked the question. I'm glad you answered and now I know more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48889	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48890	Dear colleague, I think there's a clear story here about the Dubrovnik Walls. This is about who would have the money, nothing else because if we had heard here that the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities had embezzled money, if it hadn't been for good business, that it had been disastrously caring for the ancients in Dubrovnik, then this law would have made sense. However, as the law we will later discuss is the Law on Theatres, I believe that this is also purely legal violence. here I agree with you it is lex Vlahusic and we need to give one man more money because you know who will negotiate jobs that can also profit. All the mayors want as much money in their hands as they can because they have money, they make deals. And when jobs are negotiated, the percentages are agreed. Therefore, this law is not even fair to this society that I know very little about, but I have not until now until Mr Vlahusic has asked for the law that you will normally deny, as you have denied the Komadini law, until before I have heard a bad word about society. If there is, then take it out here in the Parliament, say what. And in your presentations, the essence is not said unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48891	Answer to the replica Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48892	Thank you, colleague Vuksic. I fully agree with your remark and worst when certain laws adapt to certain people who want to in some way provide and put control in the adoption of certain legal solutions. In this case, it is seen that the only control is the money and it is seen that the city will continue to manage the money if and in the part where it is spoken then it is said that 50% of the funds but the net funds will be given to the City Wall Reconstruction Office. The net assets are quite wide-ranging because then these funds can be spent on something else, and that part of the total revenue can be significantly higher.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48893	And Frano Matušić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48894	Madam Vice President. Well, your colleague rightly confirmed what I already said on behalf of the HDZ Club that it was a confiscation. But there's something even harder than that. This is about the introduction of the fundamental constitutional principles of the government's trinity in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, we are a legislative body, but we are not a judicial body, which warns the majority through the work of the Legislative Committee and accepts Article 3 of their conclusion: "The text of the proposal is made by the Committee to comment on Article 36, in particular on paragraphs 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, with the proposal that the Proposer should examine them further because it is indicated that it is part of the provisions of a procedural nature which enters into the independence of the judiciary and are not and cannot be subject to the content of this law." So, to me more than a clear view, a confirmation of everything I've been saying on behalf of the club is that it's an absolutely inappropriate bill that goes into judicial independence. And if the HNS colleagues don't see it, if they don't see it, if they don't see that there's a confiscation in the works I really don't know what they need, maybe I should read it again to them to take over the city of Dubrovnik based on these changes of laws, to take over the city walls, to take over all the documentation, to take over the funds. And what else is that? That all contracts concluded with third parties by the Dubrovnik antiquities are declared worthless, etc. except for those who are on the lease, etc. And what else is a confiscation? What else is that? What else would that be? Absolutely I think it is the right and right word for this law which is absolutely harmful and which raises the fundamental constitutional principles of the government's trinity in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48895	Thank you very much. We have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Honorable representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48896	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. I'd just be begging for an injured article 235. And I'd like to pray that in this replication contest at least we stick to article 235 and replicate that original speaker, not ten others, to ten more, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48897	Who would hurt a colleague in that Rules of Procedure? Who hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48898	Mr. Matušić injured Article 235. The Rules of Procedure, replicating me, or us in the CNS, but actually replicating my colleagues, Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48899	Okay. It may be strictly formal, but since the practice in the Croatian Parliament is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, we must also respect the practice. Reply to the Replica Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48900	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, I fully agree with you, colleague Matušić. The constitutional principles and the issue of the government's trinity are at stake here. Because we are prescribing something by law that can ultimately have a completely different solution because in a court procedure, something completely different can be exposed. We have put in advance the law to take away everything, break the contracts and question that part of the legal solutions that can later be annulled, and clearly that there can be a lot of damage and I totally agree with you on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48901	Thank you, too. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. Now it is the SDP club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48902	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate. In fact, we in the SDP welcome the restoration of Dubrovnik's monumental units in the Assembly after 14 full years. Namely, the latest amendments to the law were passed in '99. A year. That it is necessary to amend or supplement the Rehabilitation Act. That legal text was now available from the last century, the last state that has been changed several times in attempts to bring it into line with the new situation, the circumstances, but it still ran him over. The conditions have matured, perhaps the need for a possible, different arrangement of the overall management of Dubrovnik's monumental unit now at risk and from uncontrolled tourist burdens not only earthquakes or wars. The Dubrovnik Reconstruction Institute was once a mega institution that actually launched a systematic recovery of Dubrovnik after the '79 earthquake. A year. He was then one of the founders of Dubrovnik’s municipalities. But now we have three. Of course the Ministry, the city, the Dubrovnik-Neretva County. The annual budget of this institution is around 13, with a cold drive of about 13 million kuna. So, we're talking about Dubrovnik's Institute for Reconstruction as a public institution that performs professionally, I stress the professional and other tasks of organising and implementing the programme of restoration of Dubrovnik's monumental unit. And the basic specific professional objective of its establishment is actually to strengthen buildings, blocks by injecting as a consequence of an earthquake. Here's what they're actually planning to do by 2020, to finish that exact restoration if you let them have the finances, so they'll finally end up rebuilding from the earthquake. The Law on the restoration of the endangered monumental unit of Dubrovnik regulates the area of monumental integrity and other immovable cultural goods to which this law applies. More precisely, it defines what is considered a renewal. These are works of seismic reinforcements and accompanying conservatory restoration works. I repeat, with the current pace and insurance of around 20 million kuna per year, the recovery from the earthquake would be over by the end of 2020. I must mention here 10 years of restoration as a consequence of the war, because all the roofs in the city of Dubrovnik have been restored. It is proposed to change the founding stake so that the founders of the Republic of Croatia's institutions with 60% share, the city with 30% share and Dubrovnik-Neretva County are 10%. I received an answer from the Deputy Minister when he told me that the county had not reported for a public hearing with its remarks. As for finance, finances were according to shares before, the city gave about 4 million kuna, Republic of Croatia 5, 6 and Dubrovnik-Neretva County only 20% for salaries. It is proposed to amend the composition of the Expert Advisory Commission. Otherwise, the Institute for the Reconstruction of Dubrovnik, as I had just said in the replica, has been actively involved since the beginning of this law and supported its final reference to the procedure and the harmonisation of the necessary changes. They made proposals, I hope it all came to the ministry and were adopted. Just because it's necessary to work for the Bureau. And that's why I'm saying that this law makes sense to the Dubrovnik Reconstruction Office. Most of the amendments and additions of particularly professional ones were adopted with respect to the profession. We believe that we should also consider installing some other remarks that we have received, and I hope the ministry has received, this is article 18 and the proposal that we received from the Dubrovnik Reconstruction Office. Article 32 amends Article 43 of the Law by changing the way in which the institutions are financed and stipulates that the city of Dubrovnik provides in its annual budget an amount of 50% of the total net revenue from ticket sales. So, unlike the funding so far, which was according to the founders actually. However, funding under this proposal is transferred to the local community and it is binding exclusively on the city, but Dubrovnik is considered to be a reconstruction of an urban whole such as Dubrovnik under UNESCO protection heavily damaged both in the earthquake and further destroyed in the 1990s. and '91. It should not be burdened not only by the local community but also by the boredom of the Republic of Croatia which, in fact, by such participation and materially but also symbolically at one international level, can actually show and prove continued concern for its and international cultural heritage. This particular renewal should not be an obligation exclusively on the part of the citizens of Dubrovnik as a consequence of natural war disasters. We have another fact, and this is that besides Dubrovnik's monumental unit in the wider area, very rich cultural heritage potentials exist that are also waiting for their revitalization, restoration, etc. and waiting for the help of that local community. It therefore further requires, or implies, the need for at least the UNESCO city to continue to be significantly participated by the Republic of Croatia. We have a few more objections, and we don't agree that the word "hazarded" is deleted, which we don't think is good. The monumental unit is threatened, when you talk to people from Dubrovnik's Institute of Reconstruction, then you see how long it takes to work on working in blocks, that it has a lot of problems and that, in fact, these laws and such procedural problems are being solved. The most debate today in this House and on committees and in the public concerned Article 36, which stipulates that the day of entry into force of this law the management and management of Dubrovnik city walls as a public good in general use is being taken over by the city of Dubrovnik and all rights of third parties, etc. as it says in the law. The problem of the Dubrovnik walls is certainly not a new issue, nor is it a question that has not been discussed before. The topic was more recent reciprocally increasing the revenues that the walls had achieved, which are now reaching millions of dollars. I repeat, the annual budget of the Institute is around 13 million kuna with included costs of cold drive, while at the same time the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities earns more than 50 million kuna annually. Therefore, VAT can also be paid, the institution's budget can be covered. It is precisely because of such amounts of the adoption of the Law on the restoration of Dubrovnik's monumental unit that is public today, and it has often been shown here as a result of each other's struggle, on one side of the city of Dubrovnik and the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities, and it was even called Lex Vlahusic. However, Vlahusic does not make a decision, he proposes to the City Council. The City Council therefore makes a decision. The fact that the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities has good quality control over the walls over the past period and no one can say it differently. Because after many years of not caring for the Dubrovnik walls, which resulted in even a partial collapse or inaccessibility of the walls after World War II, wall care was accepted by a group of lovers, he also mentioned a colleague, led by Mrs. Lukša Beretic and in the city actually known as the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities. These are the followers of the founders of society still lord the walls. Today the walls are in excellent condition, the annual number of visitors is increasing and no one can say it differently. However, it is undeniable that the association, or civil society organisation, generates huge revenues in public good and for which public authorities do not have detailed control and control mechanisms. Therefore, we also come here to the fact that there is a need for more transparent financial management, i.e. demonstrations, or control of civil society associations. Of course, there's no violation of their autonomy, but a clean bill of long love. Because if they are not bonds of public procurement they have the means, they receive funds that are owned by units of local self-government, real estate is purchased, money is also given in donations, etc., etc. In the relations of the city and society there were contracts, agreements and mistakes, of course, there were also war flags, there were police, there were security guards, communal order, everything and, of course, caused great attention to the media and wonders and the Dubrovnik public, as well as tourists who looked at it all. Since Ms. Minister, when she was in Dubrovnik and the city and the Association of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities, left the possibility of mutual agreement on the management and management of the walls, I hope that this will be the first reading, until the next reading, some agreement that will be in the interest of the citizens of Dubrovnik in the interest of heritage and all that within the framework of legality. The relationship between the city of Dubrovnik and the Association of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities should be settled by agreement instead of by law. If you can't, then you have to get rid of it by law. We can even support here was today a proposal from the Committee on Education, Science and Culture to propose a thematic session because on committees we had the opportunity to see a representative of the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities, and we had no opportunity to hear representatives of the unit of local self-government. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues of this law in the first reading will support and hope that by the second reading, mutual relations will be regulated according to the positive regulations, that a model will be found, a modus for strengthening contracts between the city and the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities, and also legal and transparent spending of funds. I respect tradition, tradition is very important and we in Dubrovnik know very well what tradition is just everything should be within the framework of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48903	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Replications have been reported to your presentation. The first replica and respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48904	Your Honor, Madam Representative. This must be the most dangerous law for a set of Dubrovnik Walls and a monumental block since the French "smacked the door", quite certainly in a professional sense. One more thing I wanted to say was that there was a question here that someone considered the income from the Dubrovnik Walls as their own, and it was a society of a thousand members of the citizens of the city of Dubrovnik. Me rather than whose resources are these, Mr. President of the Parliament? Even if it wasn't the mayor's or Bačić's or Matusic's? These are the resources of the citizens of Dubrovnik because it is a public resource couple of excellence and it is a praise to God that we have an association of civil society that is so connected to the public good. That's why there's a rule in Sibenik that makes it so. There is a strategy in the ministry for the economic use of cultural goods which clearly prescribes this as an example of the 21st century, and not the 19th, is precisely the point of protecting cultural heritage in space and modern life to society to do so. There is no better system of protection, there is no such inspection, there is no court that will better protect, say, the cultural heritage of Lastova than the society of Lastov and who will better protect the Dubrovnik Walls from the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities that have been tied to it for decades, there is no. And that's what it says in all the beginners and in all the instructions you want from UNESCO to the Council of Europe for the management of cultural heritage, beginners.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48905	First you are answered by a respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, and I will if Parliament allows me to answer you or with coffee later because I disagree with you. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48906	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Mesic agrees with you and everyone here and everyone who sees the result of the work, the investment in heritage, the preservation of heritage the result of the work of the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities and we all know that this is a great model from ancient times and that there is a tradition and it is not questionable at all, but the management and way of working of the Association of Civil Society should be placed in the legal frameworks, nothing else. They should be commended to work, no one here said anything that they did wrong, though. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48907	I'll give up the answer, but we'll handle it. Next replica and respected vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48908	Your Honor, Mr. President. Well, you've now said what is true, but this society takes good care of the walls, and that's why what this law proposes is fatal. Because we have a society that everyone agrees to take good care of. He's been worried about it for 61 years, and they haven't done anything wrong, and he says it just needs to be done a little bit better. However, this law kidnaps them all they have and completely removes them from the stage to do so because it is very dangerous. This is a potentially very dangerous legal one-story presidency because it directly intervenes in individual legal transactions concluded between third parties on the part of the Government, which is both constitutional and legal inadmissible. And that's what everyone seems to be up against. Because here we all agree that it is an association of citizens that works well, which has done nothing wrong and is, in fact, very useful for the preservation of Dubrovnik heritage. However, the fact is that transitional provisions actually create one situation relating to concrete legal work and that is not known, I am not a lawyer, there are more lawyers here than I do, but as far as I know it is not known in theory or in the legal practice of civilised legal systems that the law abolishs an individual specific legal relationship, a contract concluded between third parties in order to achieve some profit for one party. That I think is completely contrary to the existing legal legislation and that is one problem. The problem, however, is also the essence of why not spend all the funds from the walls on this proposal. And where does the other 50% of the tickets go from the tickets to the walls, and it takes a hundred million Now to rebuild all sorts of other things in Dubrovnik. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48909	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48910	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Reiner, if we're going to look from the point of view of culture, then we don't have words for the society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities I repeat because they're doing great. If we're going to look at from the point of view of the other, how civil society has the assets that they make on property owned by a local self-government unit, then we're going to see if they can buy real estate, whether they can make donations. We're wondering if they're working by the rules. Nothing but a colleague, Reiner. I didn't force anything to do. I'm on a deal, a contract. Or we put it all in the frameworks of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48911	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48912	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Shimac-Bonačić, from your presentation, it is suggested that the law, i.e. the procedure of passing this law, is worse than I thought. In fact, I was convinced until a moment ago that this law was passed so that the society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities would dissipate the management of the Dubrovnik walls. And you said something else to me that's worse. You said and your exposure would have turned out that this law is in the function of pressing the mayor of Dubrovnik on the company of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities in order to accept his proposal to amend the contract by the second reading. So if and accept this law we will withdraw. This can be concluded from your presentation. So, because you say the minister was in Dubrovnik, she held a meeting with the mayor and representatives of the society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities. They made some suggestions that society didn't accept. Now that you haven't accepted it, we will come with this law to Parliament, if you accept the proposals we will withdraw the law because then according to what you have said, there is practically no point. In my opinion, the move is very rude, no matter what comes from the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48913	Replica response, distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48914	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Bacic, that's your impression, so I'm allowing you to conclude from what I was saying, but you've got it all wrong and I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48915	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the replicas. It is up to the honourable representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48916	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it seems to me that I have concluded the same conclusion as my colleague, Bacic, colleague Bonačić. But I would say that, in fact, from your presentation, it was the most questionable end of your exposure when you said that society worked perfectly but that it should work within the legal frameworks. So you're implying that society worked in an illegal way. Now you tell the Croatian public and in front of Dubrovnik who is following this debate, I hope and believe, on the basis of what you have concluded that the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquity did not work according to the law. Is this based perhaps on some judgment that I have never heard of or based on your thinking in the leading structures of your party in the city of Dubrovnik? Or on the basis of which you have now reached this conclusion, you have implied that society did not work in accordance with the law. The second thing, you said the spending of funds on whether a civil society can spend, of course it can comply with the law and according to the contract it signed with that same city of Dubrovnik. Well, you signed the annex. You could have if you felt that society should also give more comprehensive reports, you in that annex, so your authority in the city of Dubrovnik that you have participated could have added to this annex that society is obliged to give a comprehensive report each year for each kuna of its activities and based on what it does. So there were no obstacles to it, nor are there any of them today. You leave the possibility that society with the city will, in the meantime, agree on how to function and manage the walls. You are not concerned with the fact that the Legislative Committee has found that this bill interferes with the independence of the judiciary. I think everyone in this country should be worried. And President-in-Office of the Parliament, first of all, will not allow the judiciary's independence to become a cornerstone, this is the conclusion of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48917	Thank you. Thank you, dear colleague Matušić. Reply to the replica of the respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48918	Thank you very much. Comrade Matušić you are, I take off your hat, you are a great rhetorical man and you are obviously reading something that suits you so you can replicate it for me. However, I am very sorry, I did not say about the illegalities in society but I said that it was an association of civil society which, just a little fellow Matusic, which is not in the public procurement system. Therefore, the Law on Associations, you understand. So it wasn't about any of the things you said in the replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48919	Thank you very much. Fifth Replication Honored Representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48920	My colleague Bonačić, therefore, is a unique case that one association that I have not qualified for how she works is, that she collects funds from public sources and spends them in that amount. There is no such case in the Republic of Croatia. Whether it will ever happen as previous counterpart Mesic, so there are supposed to be such projects in the ministry that we will give all our public goods to associations for management, we will see. For now, it's a futuristic fantasy for me. So the Dubrovnik Reconstruction Institute has a budget of 13 million kuna, and the Association of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities has 50 million kuna and has 40 employees, doing a job in every other city in this country, a public, or city, or local administration. And now we want to change that. If colleagues consider it good, then tomorrow they suggest that the Knin Fortress, the Sibenik Fortress, the Zadar Beds also leave to the management of associations, especially if they make some revenue, and I expect something like this to be made to the... medieval buildings, the Vinkowic historical buildings and the sources of historical buildings and castles. If that's a good model, have your colleagues propose it tomorrow. Well, it would be logical for counterpart Bačić to propose that management of the Korčula fortress and all historical values there be handed over to some association.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48921	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas and the answers to the replica. We're going back to the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48922	Here we are, too, in Slavonia, loving Dubrovnik, and we will not bypass this debate that has moved away from this topic on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconstruction of the Threatened, so it writes the endangered monumental units of Dubrovnik. With us, such a threatened object exists and does not exist in Slavonski Brod, there is a fortress that was not taken up by Napoleon or the Turks, whose defense was and is made, and therefore it remains complete and whole, but when I listen to these figures about tens of millions of kunas that are invested in the reconstruction of the Dubrovnik Walls, then it comes to me to cry because the Fortress of Brod, let Mr. Šipus or Mesic, who was before him be the deputy minister or minister, I don't know what he was, and the Deputy Minister, Mr. Bishop, let him say how much money was invested from both the state and the town of Brod and from the county in that Ship Fortress which is actually Dubrovnik's north. Thus, it is freely said, according to its preservation, fortification facilities, towers, canals, bridges, St. Anne chapels from the days of Austro-Hungarian etc. But there's a lot about the fortress in Slavonia, and we don't worry about it, and there's no money, so nobody's asking that question. More difficult is the question of the confiscation of brandy these days because there are people who have entered the European Union and now it is up to the confiscation of our goods that we have and which this year thanks God well, this rakija and which the tax administration pursues day and night after day in the villages of Brod-Posavina and other Slavonian counties, charges 15000 kunas a fine for one liter of brandy over 50 liters or orders that a man over 50 will pay 21 kuna for each litre, and it is sold to them by 25 and only 4 earnings on brandy. That's what we're worried about very much, but we're worried about Dubrovnik and we're worried about this kind of thing and I'd say, maybe even call it rudely, this law as someone said, and I threw it out the first, one uncultural law or culturalicide or traditionalocide. Namely, the tradition of preserving Dubrovnik walls and the City of Dubrovnik was preserved precisely by the operation of the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities for 61 years, as a long tradition, and it occurred at a time when they were just grinding ceilings in '51. It's just like now that the plum targets and rakia in our Slavonian villages, so it's being held all the time Communism, and now that we've entered Europe, this government is trying to get the money of the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities to absorb it and possibly invest it, that is to say, to Mr. Andri, Mrs. Andri at her disposal. How's he gonna dispose? I don't know. But I know something else, and I got information that the Associations of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities acted not only on the protection and restoration of Dubrovnik walls and towers but also on the restoration of the Falcon of the city, the Falcon of the city more Danube in the Conavles, if anyone knows where it is. Matušić knows, but these others don't. And who knows who, who even made the fortress at the entrance to Boka Kotorska, on the hill sharp, you know what the complex is and what the possibilities of that complex are. The stone fortress on which the marathon is held, which was restored by the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities. And he says it's according to the Public Procurement Act, so there's the Association Act, so as well as I as an association, the HDSSB has an association, we have to do business, we have a commercial where we have to file a one-year account and a reckoning every year. Well, there's a tax inspection, there's every other inspection, so watch how the association works and whether it works properly or incorrectly. So who's defending you? But let's confiscate now or, as HDZ counterpart Bacic said, disenfranchise, he says. That's right, disenfranchise the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities. I wasn't directly involved there, but I was only with the Special Police in Konavla and Dubrovnik and Cavtat and Vitalina and Molunt and everywhere. And I know well every step of that country, our Croatian country. And the Danube and Popovic and everything. I've been there all over, and that's why I'm here today, because I care about the Croatian north and Slavonia and Dubrovnik and the Croatian south pardon. He says there's no in the state budget, so there's no cost of spending. So what's the cost when you take it, not only is there no cost, but you get it. The state not only disowns the financing of the reconstruction of the walls but also takes, confiscates, confiscates, even the remaining money, so those left in the work of the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities. And what is it, then, now you tell me, what will be the role of this society when it happens, when you implement this law, what will be the role of society? Now, you tell me, Mrs. Bonacci, you're from Dubrovnik, what are they gonna do, play a line? I don't know. So there's the Association Act, there's a law on the financing of associations that can be monitored. You have ways of overseeing the work of associations and spending the money of associations, so here you go, get the IRS, all the others, and control how the associations work. And all of you, and even you say that this association has done a great job in preserving and for what it is founded for, which is why it is founded, which is the protection of Dubrovnik, or Dubrovnik walls, reconstruction, etc. I know that the map for our mortals, the Croatian mortals for the tour of the walls, seems to me to be 60 kuna as long as it was. But believe me, what's the name of the one on the Pilates is the watch parking 25 kuna for the car as long as I remember when I last parked there, so you see, compare the price of a tour of the Dubrovnik Walls and the price of parking, one hour. And coffee on Stradun you know, sir, I haven't been there in a while. [[Leko: How much coffee is on Stradun?]] I was in Special Police, so we were drinking coffee on the ground drinking coffee, drinking in the field in the Danube coffee upstairs, cooking, cooking and drinking as much as possible. So anyway, this is the first reading they've said here, Mr. Shipus is what it's called, our deputy minister. I also believe that I watched the other day of Mr. Prime Minister as he has gesticulation so I look at Mr. Shipus and I see that I will not interpret what is happening in him and what, how, what he thinks but let us all together. We don't have to fight here today, we don't have to fight about it. We're all, I think we're all for the good of Dubrovnik and for the protection of the walls, but apparently wars are always about two things. That Trojan guy was running for his wife and some other guy, and I'm not gonna say war, but parole is due to money, money, and nothing else. Can't it, with the help of a third party, as someone said here who got involved in this dispute between the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik and the City of Dubrovnik that already has a contract with the Society of Dubrovnik's antiquities the state got involved so that it stood completely aside from the city neglecting even the interest of the Society of Dubrovnik, friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities. So, can't this come to a different, more favourable contract or some kind of annex that everyone would be pleased with. Before the second reading I suggest just such a modus, such a model to go back to talking to. Talk can get rid of everything. Such a bill as the one in which it states that this Institute for Reconstruction or so called, the Institute for the Reconstruction of Dubrovnik can, in the event of a need, enable modern housing needs to train these old Dubrovnik buildings for the need of housing and to carry out economic, cultural and other activities. Maybe he's selling ice cream on the walls, maybe a basket, maybe peanuts, what I know is what it could be, or the need for someone from a white-world tycoon to live in Lovrenc, or I don't know what he'd already live in. It's the modern and modern needs of these people, and he wants it, and he has money to pay for it, and then the Institute will approve it. Is that the purpose of this law? Put in such a function of Dubrovnik fortress, pearl not only of Croatia, but also of world, cultural, fortification, each other. Not to mention the names of Dubrovnik history and our history from Gundulić to Boskovic, etc. I really don't know what they'd say or roll over where they'd rest. In any case, in such a form as this legal proposal of the HDSSB is now written, there is no way at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48923	Thank you, Your Honor. Four lines have been reported. Let's go in line. The first replica and respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48924	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with your presentation especially in the part in which you claim that this law in one part is unconstitutional when it comes to intervention in a civil-legislative relationship between two persons, legal persons and among them is not the Republic of Croatia but the City of Dubrovnik and the Association of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquity. It seems to me like this when I read that the government somehow shows its muscles to abolish the rights of an association or the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquity or of civil society. You can ask the question, would the Government be prepared to come to Parliament with a law that would intervene in civil law relations, for example, by concessionaire BINA ISTRA? Would we do this without going into negotiations with BINA ISTRA, with BUIK's French company, would we rule them out the rights that belong to them from another contract between the Republic of Croatia and that strong French corporation? When it comes to a civil society, when it comes to the society of citizens, the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities, then the Government can come sovereignly to the Parliament and say that the contract will break because it is not certain enough whether the company is using funds transparently. It's as if we know whether BINA ISTRA is fully transparently using funds, as if we know whether BINA ISTRA as a concessionary on the Istrian capital is implementing the Public Procurement Act. We don't mind that over there. How do we not mind, for example, whether a concessionaire on a maritime good is using funds transparently, but we do not mind when according to a valid contract between third parties we suspect there may be non-transparent use of funds. I don't think that's good, and this law should be withdrawn in a motion like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48925	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48926	I, Mr. Vlahusic, as Minister of Health, not Health, know and personally and was also in our hospital in Slavonski Brod and I have an opinion on him. But when citizens, when you ask citizens about the credibility of our politicians, so I take the mayor, not only Vlahusic, but everyone else and all of us here together, then you will hear what they think of them. 99% won't give a positive opinion. So, since the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities has such a positive opinion from all of us here, it's not clear to me why to give someone money that citizens don't trust, and priorities as politicians as politicians. And secondly, it would be a legal precedent, and if the domino effect followed, then other associations would go like the last Society of friends of Dubrovnik antiquities would be a disaster for Croatia. And I'm afraid that would also cause reactions not only in Croatia but also in our friends in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48927	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48928	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Grubisic, you've confirmed those thesis that I made very clear at the beginning of my speech on behalf of the club, which is that it's a confiscation, but you're also talking about the Society of Friends of the Dubrovnik Antiquity which is not really the subject of this law, we've been saying all along. We talk all the time about the Society of Friends of the Dubrovnik Antiquities who are not at all the subject of this law, just being mentioned in the transitional provisions. And first of all, I want to thank you for the zeal with which you have defended the cultural interests of the Croatian South, Dubrovnik region and you will find the same advocate for defending your cultural interests in Slavonia and elsewhere in Croatia in me, and I trust my colleagues Bačić. But what's important is that civil society associations come here in danger. Here come civil society associations, Croatian societies. Here, it is affecting the rights of a particular civil society that is being dissipated and which is being confiscated by the property. No one here said in the House even here and gave up her colleague Bonačić that she didn't say that someone was doing it against the law. Then why do you do it? Then why is the Society of friends of Dubrovnik antiquity mentioned in the transitional provisions? No one said that society is doing illegal work, and we legislative bodies are messing with the judiciary and we're making a verdict, we're confiscating property. And according to the interpretation of the Legislative Committee, we are doing a precedent, i.e. we are interfering with the independence of the judiciary. Well, I think we literally, that is, this government, the ruling coalition confused pots. What is this, what kind of mess is legal? Mr. President, I really urge you to seriously consider the conclusions of the Legislative Committee and to engage yourself in this debate. For this is indeed one precedent that rockes the foundations of our society, the foundations of the trio of power.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48929	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48930	Thank you very much. A colleague, Matušić, in his opening statement, told the deputy minister that the DORH had granted permission for such a legislative proposal. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Opinion, pardon your opinion. I wish that same DORH would give an opinion on buying some other Dubrovnik problems, buying and selling the Excelsior Hotel, for example, which there has been a criminal application for 22 years, and it still hasn't been settled. That would be much better. Or about the Sun Gardens in Dubrovnik, where they are and how they disappeared or what crime is happening there. Now, that would be the DORH's task, not to determine the credibility of the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities. And there are still reports that the DORH hasn't solved yet, so get the DORH to give an opinion on it, and then we'll talk about the Society of Friends of the Dubrovnik Ages and the Dubrovnik Walls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48931	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48932	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow Grubisic situation that is down there, a dispute created by the police intervened in the case of the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities and the City. So the police intervened. It is not all pleasant to hear from the citizens of Dubrovnik or the guests who were in Dubrovnik at the time. But I'm a little surprised by the exposure, we're all in favour of transparency laws. We have an association that deals with the restoration of antiquities that has no public procurement, which can be negotiated friendlyly and doesn't have to, that's not what I'm saying, but it can, which gives donations to various donations to go out of that society and they don't choose. However, the mayor of the HNS, president of the HDZ city council, means co-operation exists between the two parties, decisions are jointly made and are also elected by 43,000 citizens of Dubrovnik. And the Society of Friends of the Ancients of Dubrovnik has heard that there are about a thousand of its members. They don't choose from the citizens of Dubrovnik. I think there's something going on here, and I think the legislator went that way. Surely these people who work there will stay working but under one hat where they will be safely controlled both public procurement and donations and everything else. I don't think we should be so much... at this tonight's debate on this, that second reading will be and all those mistakes that have been made and supplemented... we'll have time to correct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48933	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48934	So correct... as if I'm defending you, correct. And the other thing is when you talk about police and cases to say some kind of conflict or conflict so the police are for people and prison is for people not for some I don't know what kind of animals, it's for people and the hospital is for people. And what's the police got to do with it, so the police intervened, so what if it was some kind of problem? The police are also intervened in Vukovar, so don't complain, sir. And in the end, I was speaking in general about the opinion and the general aspect of citizens' thinking, the people about politicians, their credibility, their honesty and everything else together with me, and I include myself when I'm a member of the Parliament, a representative. That's negative. And in this context of Dubrovnik and the decision on money, the availability of money from the Dubrovnik Walls also remains that the opinion of your city council president and of the mayor and of me and of you and every negative one is not positive, so you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48935	New replica and respected representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48936	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Here again, the confiscation of colleagues Grubisic says the confiscation is taken even the remaining money of the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquity. So let me read again Article 36, paragraph 9, because it's very well formulated. "The society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquity is obliged to hand over to the city of Dubrovnik and funds intended for the reconstruction of old walls which have not yet been spent for this purpose." 6th, 7th, 12th time today money is not the association's money. This is the money obtained by selling tickets to the walls and which is intended and intended for the sole restoration of the walls. It's not the property of the association. The association was non-profit, and the non-profit organisation was still tasked with rerouting the money from the tickets to the rebuilding of the walls. So, the promotion here tonight in this debate is a classic simple replacement of thesis, and the more that experience teaches me here in this House, the more it promotes the replacement of the thesis from opposition lines, the more I am convinced that something smells in that case, and so here I am increasingly convinced colleagues and colleagues because it is not their property, as much as you would like it to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48937	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48938	It stinks, it smells, it smells like a colleague, and it smells like this law, and this bill stinks, and it stinks, and it stinks, and it smells. He says "his traces stink of humanity," says his neighbor next door from the Dubrovniks, and that's what His name says, so let me just quote. But while you're talking about the debts of this society that I've never been a member of, and I don't know, so you think I'm such a fireman, not a fan, but a supporter of that Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities. But when are you and your government going to pay the peasants that 700 million kuna and tell me that and how long have you owed it? Explain to me when you'll pay for it, and a contract has been signed between the government and the peasants, so when are you going to pay for it, tell me?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48939	Thank you very much. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48940	Dear President of the Parliament. A colleague, Grubisic, injured Article 235. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, our topic today is not agriculture but protection of the Dubrovnik Walls.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48941	We've exhausted the replicas and the answers to the replica and we've exhausted the list of clubs reported for discussion on this subject. We are moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes, the first is the respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48942	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate. So I think throughout this debate, we at the HDZ Club and other opposition clubs have tried to point out the unconstitutional nature of this law and the presidency that would bring this adoption of this law in Croatian legislation. In fact, what I have already said many times and what I certainly need to repeat is the fact that the law in such a text as it was proposed is intruding into a civil relationship between third parties and the Assembly takes the right to put itself in office of the judiciary and to determine what happens next under that contract. On the other hand, I assume that this contract is prescribed and that both legal persons have signed that in the event of a dispute over the implementation of this contract, the jurisdiction of the territorial court will be established, I assume the Municipal Court of Dubrovnik, so if there are any recommendations, I would return that recommendation to the level of the judiciary or the competent territorial court which should determine whether one of the parties fulfils the obligations made by that law. In his introduction, Mr. Shipus said that there is an opinion of the State's Attorney's Office I do not know whether in writing that contract is corrupt, illegal and that then the fact that the DORH has declared it is a legal basis for this Act. While on the other hand I have information that Ms. Assistant Justice Minister Sandra Artuković, an experienced judge at a meeting between the city of Dubrovnik, with the presence of the minister of culture and the president of the DPDS, said clearly that the contract is absolutely not harmful and that there is no need to refer to the existing contract between the city of Dubrovnik and the Association of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities. Well, if that's the case, it would be a good idea to make a statement to the Deputy Minister. Whether, and the record exists, whether indeed Ms. Assistant Minister of Justice has made such a statement on the contract. Why is this law further strange to me? I am surprised that this law, which determines in an important way the use and management of the property of the city of Dubrovnik, whose representative body is the representative of the owner, the city council of Dubrovnik, is to hold a debate with the public concerned at the time of the local elections when the city council of Dubrovnik is disbanded and when it cannot adopt any declaration, resolution, position and opinion on this law. At the same time, as local elections are being held for regional or regional self-government, the Dubrovnik-Neretva County Assembly has been disbanded and this law reduces the share of the City of Dubrovnik's Institute of Reconstruction. So the debate with the interested public takes place right at the time of the local elections when neither the city council of Dubrovnik nor the county assembly is in session. So that's why I'm a little surprised by the timing at the time of the local elections. Shortly before, Mr. Radoš, now went to ask the question how, why would the civil society or the association of citizens take better care of cultural goods about, for example, the Dubrovnik walls, he also stated... Trogyrian, Sibenik, etc., etc. The walls, from someone else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here's the culture minister who comes from his party's business of managing each other's walls, gave the Sibenik walls to another association of citizens in Sibenik. And it is also a recommendation from UNESCO that civil society is precisely concerned with the cultural heritage in its immediate environment because it is a civil society as a non-profit, non-commercial association, all that it achieves by income from these, from the use of these walls and that cultural good it is obliged to return and return to the restoration, maintenance and improvement of the same cultural goods. And I agree that there is a very great danger if this law is passed, if this law is passed and this law is cleared or... This society, although someone else, even the city of Dubrovnik will take care of the Dubrovnik walls in the future, I am really afraid that in due course, the commercialisation of these same city, Dubrovnik antiquities will slowly take place and that it could be very easy to come to commercialisation later and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] economic activities in the area of Dubrovnik walls. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And how and how this society best tells the state of these walls, the condition of today's walls in Stone, and the care of the Falcon City in Konavla. Hence, there is really no objection to the work of the Society of Friends of the Dubrovnik Antiquity, which would then be the basis for this law to be passed. Therefore, it is right to ask the question of what is the real reason, which is the real reason that one society, which is all that all the income it achieves, is... These walls, they return to the editing of these walls, to their maintenance, which are indeed the city walls of Dubrovnik today, better and better than ever, to disenfranchise them today, we are going to some new project that can be asked. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why would we break some kind of relationship and contract that gives a legal person to the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities to take such good care of these same walls that we now disenfranchise them and give that job to someone else. And I really don't see that reason at all. And another very indicative, indicative thing. Namely, the fact is that the Dubrovnik Institute for Reconstruction manages and conducts jobs on the reconstruction of the city of Dubrovnik. As far as we can see from the law itself, the revenues of the same Institute have been achieved since the visit to the walls because 50% of the funds under the same law will be passed on to the institution. That the Republic of Croatia, which does not participate in the financing of this Institute, has a majority number of members of the Governing Council and manages this same institution and not a unit of local self-government or a unit of regional self-government on whose territory it is located, is the same city and means that are realised by the use of exactly the property owned by the city. That link I have to tell me it's a little surprising, but here's the proposal for this law. And indeed, according to this proposal, the law governs the city. And what was this particular reason, that's what I'd like the legislator to tell me, which was the reason that this law reduces the share of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska County, which is up to, even today, 20% and that now the city, and 20% of the city of Dubrovnik now goes to 30% and the county to 10%. I don't see why that's not explained. I think at the end of the day, I think that the city council of Dubrovnik and the County Assembly of Dubrovnik-Neretva County should also be manifested. Since I know the law-making procedure and that this law will probably go and very quickly into another reading unless he contributes to what Mrs. Shimac-Bonacic said earlier that he was an additional pressure on the old age society and accepts some other changes. And I believe he'll go on a change like this, in a motion like this. But I think it would be good if, before the second reading of this law on this law, it were apparent that the mayor of Dubrovnik City in a written report, that the City Council of Dubrovnik was manifested, that the mayor and the County Assembly of Dubrovnik-Neretva County were manifested, so that before the discussion in the second reading, if the Ministry of this Law did not withdraw, that we had the position of the City of Dubrovnik and the County Assembly of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. It is not good for such solutions to intervene in a contractual relationship between third parties, this is a dangerous precedent, this Mr. President, I think it is not good for the Croatian Parliament to discuss this proposal of the law, because this is a harsh violation of the trio of the government in the Republic of Croatia. The parliament takes on the role of judicial bodies that it does not belong to under the Croatian Constitution. I don't think this law was supposed to come to the benches of parliamentary deputies and that we are discussing such a text of the law at all, and that is why I call on the Ministry of Culture, or the Government to withdraw such a law, and that if it wants to make any changes, it will first and foremost bring them into line with the City Council of Dubrovnik and the County Assembly of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48943	Thank you very much. We have reports of replicas. The first replica and respected representative Marijan Skurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48944	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, so above all, dear colleague, I, as mayor, when I hear this debate here about all this, and you yourself said that this must be defined through one working legal relationship and that in any case there must be an opinion of the State's Attorney's Office. Understandably, the amount is 50 million kuna. As mayor and we... mayors and mayors in Croatia can only dream of how much money is managed only with, here I will not tell the walls in that part, and it is managed by the Association of Citizens. I, as mayor and chief with much less money, am very responsible and must know every kuna where I invest. We're under the control of the State Audit, the IRS, we're responsible for everything. Here it is managed by the property of the city of Dubrovnik, 50 million kuna is managed, no public procurement is carried out, real estate is purchased, donated from these funds certainly by other users. How, in what way, I don't know. So my question is, explain to me how better it can manage 50 million kunas one association of citizens with 1,000 members compared to the legally elected power of the mayor, the president of the city council who are... 2,000 citizens of Dubrovnik. Now, I'm really interested in what makes this legal legislation and the civil legal relationship between a good one, and in this case what is proposed is wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48945	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48946	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Skurić, I must tell you that first of all, the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities is not a city of Dubrovnik, it is not imposed on him. For the purpose of the contract, Dubrovnik carried the management of Dubrovnik walls to that same society by means of a contract without any means of persuasion. Therefore, at that time he was fully aware of the relationship towards the means to be made by visiting these walls and the society was obliged immediately to transfer them to the City of Dubrovnik. Therefore, it is regarding the contract between the city and society. On the other hand, there are other laws in the Republic of Croatia that can and enable the lawfulness of the work of the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities. It is not only under special supervision of municipalities or the city, the municipality of which you are chief or city, but is under surveillance when used by means of public goods and societies and entrepreneurs and anyone else. Therefore, if there is any doubt that I do not know, but if there is any doubt that this same society has in any way played the law, that in any way not transparently dealt with these funds, that it has cut the city in the part where it had to transfer those funds, that it has cut down the state to pay 10 million kunas to the annual state budget, then it should be clearly said here and then that society to process, its small council which manages that same society punishes, and not like this, in this way to question someone's work, in the work of a thousand members of that same society, in the great council of that society and in the small council of that society. It is a very unserious and false approach to the functioning of this same society.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48947	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48948	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bačić, you have rightly warned of the rude incursion of the activity, in the work of a civil society association. Well, I think it should be clear to everyone in the Croatian Parliament, especially the Ministry of Culture, that civil society associations are a wealth of one society because they allow citizens to join associations where they will defend certain interests, but which are not only particular interests of those who are members of the association, but they are general public interests in which they particularly care on a volunteer base without special compensation. So these are societies that are very necessary and enrich social work in every democratically organized society, so Croatia should be. Here, through this law, in a rough way, you enter into the work of this society, along with the other remarks that I have already made on behalf of the club. But what I still want to point out in this replica, it's a matter of finance. This bill halves the funds, and I am surprised by the SDP club that it has stopped defending itself and the fact that Dubrovnik must not be deprived of the funds. This proposal is halved because the funds financed today by Dubrovnik's Institute of Reconstruction and by the Ministry of Culture are secured, so these funds no longer exist by the city, so 10 million kunas for their programme will no longer be received. They will now receive the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities allegedly from the walls of an asset that the company of a friend invested in walls and other monuments of culture in the area not only of the city but also of the wider and county. Therefore, they are halved, funds are taken from the city of Dubrovnik, funds are taken from citizens, funds intended for the restoration of monuments are taken from them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48949	New replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48950	Yes, it seems to be, sir...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48951	I'm sorry, I didn't see. Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić. I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48952	Thank you, Mr. President. Kola Matušić, so maybe if it were to get a little naked or analyze what is being co-financed by all the Republic of Croatia through the Dubrovnik Institute of Reconstruction and when we see that it has been up to 10 million kuna over the past few years, it is then about the amount that the Republic of Croatia is paying for the VAT tickets. Thus far, by collecting VAT for ticket sales, the Republic of Croatia has returned the amount to the office. Now, according to this law, you see no longer VAT because the city of Dubrovnik is not obliged to pay VAT, so if the city of Dubrovnik collects funds from the collection of tickets, the state budget will not benefit from it, but then the Republic of Croatia will not return to the city of Dubrovnik any longer because there are no more funds that have been received from the VAT, so now it will not co-finance the Ministry of Reconstruction of the City of Dubrovnik, but unless sufficient funds have been received from visits to the Dubrovnik Walls then probably the Ministry of Culture from the Budget will drop something in Dubrovnik's Institute for Reconstruction of the City of Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48953	Thank you very much. We're going with a replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48954	Thank you very much. In this debate it was actually crystallized on the basis of Mr. Bacic's debate that actually those who advocate such a legal proposal and from Dubrovnik-Neretva County actually didn't realize that they were cutting the branch themselves. Because if there's no more VAT on tickets, and now there's about 10 million kunas, they say the income from the IRS is tax administration, which is then the state returns to Dubrovnik. So, it's zero, so no, Dubrovnik earned, Dubrovnik spent, and it's given to the Institute and the City of Dubrovnik, so I'm not clear that they're up for this. Second thing, I was in '95. The years of Sokol city in Konavli more Danube, and I saw what it looked like. It is the tower of the reaper of Herzegovish kings, princes, never mind. It was a real ruin at the time. The other day I watched on TV, a couple months ago, a month, two days ago how she was restored and how wonderful. I was pulled back by the desire to go down again after 18 years and be back in Falcon City. And one more thing. I was also on the Cape of Sharp under Vitalina and I saw there a train driving our defenders to show the fortress to which JNA or JHA now have to speak bilingually because the tables are like that. So, I saw a train driving and the Association of Defence Konaval charged tickets for the train. I've been released for free. I have to admit, it's not more than 500 kuna, so here's the MP, but good. So will the association of defenders who cares about the fortress on the Cape of Ostr go by as well as the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48955	Thank you very much. Knock a little bit so I can see that you've picked up once in a while. Thank you very much. Here's a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48956	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Grubisic, here we problem this law, that is, with our presentations, not ours, but from the ruling ones, what happens with 50% of the funds that are raised by the Old Friends Society by the foundation of the contract with the City of Dubrovnik. I believe that I will also try to read another comprehensive financial report to get from that society, to see how much society has invested in Dubrovnik walls, how much it has invested in stone walls, and I think that many who visit Stone are more often, especially lately, seeing how much money has been invested in stone walls, what are the stone walls today, and what they were, for example, five, six years ago. So these walls were restored by the same society, and as you yourself said, Sokol city in Konavla, but also Duždev's palace in Slanom. But to mention one more thing, we, why don't we ask the question whether those other 50% of the funds that are based on the contract belong to the City of Dubrovnik are they going back 100% to those same walls. Does the City of Dubrovnik realize everything, the entire income that comes from visiting Dubrovnik walls and returning these same walls or that same cultural heritage in the way the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities does? So on the one hand, we question the legality of this society's work, and we do not question the purpose of using the City of Dubrovnik's funds that the company transfers to him. I think we should ask that question too. But for a second reading, it would be good to also submit that particular report on the financial operations of that company. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48957	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48958	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Bačić, I have to correct you again, and you have reused your impression that I have spoken from my presentation about some pressure on the Society of Friends of the Dubrovnik Ages. If you had listened well to my presentation then you would have probably been perceptive, or heard what I said. I'll also take the opportunity to say about funding here. I made myself clear. On behalf of the club, I was talking about funding, and we don't agree that the funding of heritage stays only on local self-government, in the city. No, in no case was that more so than the consequences of the '79 earthquake. Years are also the consequences of a war-damaged attack. Therefore, we advocate that the state continues to symbolically and materially and in any way shows concern for the heritage that I mentioned both ours and ours internationally. And you have the wrong impression, I don't know how you didn't listen to what I said about the funding itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48959	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48960	Thank you, Mr. President. It wasn't a fellow Shimac-Bonach that made my impression. You said that you hoped that by the second reading some agreement would be reached between the society and the mayor, or the city of Dubrovnik, and that perhaps this law in this form would not be necessary. And what else is this than the pressure on society to accept the proposal to amend the contract the mayor proposes to the same society. Because even if society accepts any changes to this law does not foresee it, this law requires the disbursement of society, the termination of contracts and the giving of the city of Dubrovnik the entire property to be used. Therefore, there is no compromise under this law, do you understand? There's no compromise here. There'll be a city here and there won't be company. And you said that by the second reading, you'd probably help find some kind of compromise between society and the city. Under this law, this law does not foresee a compromise but removes the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities after 63 years from the management of these same walls. I didn't get the wrong impression you said so, maybe you didn't mean it, but you said exactly that you were hoping to achieve that compromise and there's no compromise here but either it's a city or it's a society.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48961	Thank you very much. We are continuing with an individual debate of representatives for 10 minutes. It is up to the honourable representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48962	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, a lot has already been said, and I have already said on behalf of the club of the main thesis, which is absolutely unacceptable to such a law that is roughly entering the area of judicial independence, rocking the foundations of Croatian democracy, Croatian society in a way that raises questions about the trio of the authorities because it does so. And this was concluded by the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee, although the majority of the ruling coalition, which clearly asked the ministry to review exactly the Article 36 that we are talking about all the time. By the way, we talk all the time about the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities mentioned in this law only in the final and transitional provisions. So this isn't the civil society association law at all. I ask the Ministry of Culture will you disenfranchise tomorrow according to this same principle as GONG, will you disenfranchise B.A.B.E., will you disenfranchise Transparency International Croatia, will you disenfranchise all other civil society in the Republic of Croatia? Will you take their records? Will you, say, disenfranchise the document? Will you ask for transparency of work? The truth here you're not just looking for in this proposal, you're just dissipating this proposal, and you're actually confiscating their property. So will you take away those same civil society associations' property? Will you even ask a question about the transparency of spending on which they have the right and basis of the law? Here all the time, it is implicated somewhere in the air that the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities does not act according to the law, although no one has proved it in any court, although this society has worked 61 years and although there are commendations for the work of this society all these decades, and here today we have been able to hear the praise of everyone that this society really works well and to take excellent care of the walls. The very fact that the citizens of the city of Dubrovnik have joined together in such an association and have awareness of the need to preserve cultural heritage already speaks enough about the consciousness of these same citizens, that they are very aware of the need to preserve for future generations what our predecessors have left us with, and have left us with what is considered the greatest wealth not only of the Republic but also considered the greatest wealth of the world. Because it's also UNESCO's heritage that's protected by UNESCO. So, you could have handled it in the rights of one association through some other laws. You could have amended the Law on Civil Society Associations or Laws that regulate the scope of civil society associations. So I wonder why you didn't do it? Why in the transitional provisions we talk about the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities and very questionable provisions in very questionable articles such as Article 36. Dubrovnik will receive 10 million kunas less funds, 10 million kunas because the funds that were to be spent through the work of the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities will be transferred to the Institute for Reconstruction. And the Agency for Reconstruction will no longer be transferred from the state budget because it will not be secured in the state budget. And it will not be further transferred from the city budget because so far the city has also had an obligation and has financed with several million kunas annual work of the Institute for Reconstruction that this law speaks of. So this law speaks of the Dubrovnik Renewal Office which will now receive funds from tickets from the walls, 50% of these funds. What about the other 50%? This is where it's already been talked about. How does the city of Dubrovnik spend these other 50% transparently? We don't know anything. I don't know any project in which the city of Dubrovnik is bound to rebuild the walls in which it invests as much as the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities. Why don't we put it in the walls? The walls certainly have a need, of Bokar, of Lovrenc, etc. There's still a lot of work to do, so Lazareth and well and Lazareth are part of that system, etc. But why don't we invest in the walls? If they get from the walls to invest in the walls, what the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities is doing right now. Why not invest in stone walls as well? It is the legacy of the city of Dubrovnik, the historical heritage of the Dubrovnik Republic. Or at least let the ministry propose for that part of the funds that he has invested so far in the Society of Friends of the Dubrovnik Ancients let those 5,6 million kuna go directly to Stone, part of the Konavli, part of the Dubrovnik example, a part of the parish if they too have certain needs related to the cultural heritage of the Dubrovnik Republic, so let those 5,6 million kunas, as the ministry has drawn out, be set aside these 4 municipalities precisely for that purpose to preserve the state's concern about the cultural heritage of the former Dubrovnik Republic. At least do it. Do not reduce funds with cultural monuments. I didn't expect it from the Ministry of Culture, I expected Linic to cut everything and everything, but I didn't expect the Ministry of Culture to cut off funds intended for the restoration of cultural monuments. Therefore, I am sure that a solution can be found within the framework of the law, as you colleagues have said nicely that it should be done within the framework of the law. But who says he doesn't do business under the law? Tell me one act, give me one act which has proved in judicial cases that the company did not work according to the law because I alone think that we are admitting that only the judiciary can make such a conclusion that someone has worked contrary to the law can only conclude a judicial body, so a court, in the power of the proceedings, so after the final legal procedure. And we here confiscate property already in advance determine how this property will be seized or confiscated, regardless of what fellow Coleman cannot get into his ear that word confiscation. I know she sounds rude but unfortunately she's a fact, and such a rude intrusion into the work of an association of civil society is indeed below all levels. So I think we should leave room for the law. Those who doubt the legality of the conduct of the Civil Society Association or the Association of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities should question the legality of their work, I have no objection. I'm not a lawyer for the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities, nor am I defending them. If they've been doing some illegal activities, I'm in favour of sanctioning them. But let's not have this idea of a civil society association that is noble, which is a good one that has shown all the best results in the past 61 years, let's not have it dirtyed and questioned in this way by the founder of Mrs. Lukša Beretic, and colleague Tatjana knows the weight of that name in the city of Dubrovnik, but not only in the city of Dubrovnik but also outside the walls of the city of Dubrovnik, let's not let this activity of those people who have spent their private time and their love for the city in this system so that it is incarcerated by an unconstitutional unconstitutional law, let's not allow it. And don't let your ruling coalition cut off funds intended for the restoration of monuments in the city of Dubrovnik and its surroundings, don't let that happen. It's just doing it through this law, it's just doing it through this law. A small door is opened so that some other activities, as described in this proposal, may be introduced into these facilities. You and I know very well what's going on in Dubrovnik. I'm not going to talk about all the anomalies and all the phenomena that are happening down there, I think that's why and in the city of Dubrovnik to discuss it in the city council, etc. But I don't think it's a good idea that this is the way to get through a bill like this, to drag everything and everything into that area that was really like you admitted it was proud of all of us and it was commendable. In this sense, I appeal once again to the Ministry of Culture first of all to withdraw this bill because it is indeed a harsh, harsh violation of fundamental principles and democratic society such as Croatia and all other principles, and I am particularly concerned about the reduction of funds intended for the restoration of monuments that are most valuable not only in Croatia but which are world monumental heritage.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48963	Thank you very much. A few replicas have been reported. Let's take the first line and honorary representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48964	Thank you, Mr. President. You're right. There were a number of solutions if the Government or the legislator or if the city of Dubrovnik wanted to control how and how these funds were available, rather than to terminate the contract. The Law on Associations could be amended, some provision could be prescribed that if a citizen association achieves more than 50% of its income by using public goods it is then obliged to be in a public procurement system. This could have been suggested if we suspected, and I don't know what reason we doubted and doubted the legality of the financial business of the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities. But you may well know how many tenants there are, for example, on Stradun, on Prekome, also on city property and public surfaces. Or someone may ask whether these tenants, caterers or merchants are using and implementing the Public Procurement Act, because they are partly earning their income because they are in one beautiful location of the Old Town in Dubrovnik, and that location allows them to make incomes that they cannot make in another part of Croatia. Then the question can be asked why they too do not implement the Public Procurement Act and are they using the position that Stradun or some other public area in the city of Dubrovnik provides. Therefore, we cannot question in advance, question the legality of someone's business, so that we can pass a law that is only in its content aimed at one single association in Croatia. Laws should be passed that regulate the behavior of all associations, not just the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48965	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48966	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with you fellow teammates more that the city of Dubrovnik was getting reports of work by the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities. So they had insight into where the funds were spent, how much these funds are, how they work, so it was all available to the city council, or city councils. And that's more surprising than that, it's a miracle that there are objections about questionability and how funds have been spent. There were discussions, it could be on the city council, it can be put on the city council to request a detailed report on the funds spent and not only for the past year but also in the last 10 years, the society has documentation. So there's nothing to argue about here. So that part is not at all controversial. I'm sure, as we've already said here, it's a very different kind of political reckoning that here is also used by illicit means.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48967	A new replica and respected representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48968	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Matušić, comes to me... In my ear, just too much about it, about this afternoon, tonight's problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You said, or you asked if we were going to disenfranchise GONG,... B.A.B.E., etc., we won't, of course but it's not, it's completely incomparable cases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We do not have any associations in Croatia, i.e. my colleague has warned me that we have one but it belongs to Minister Jovanovic's portfolio, so we better not open the topic tonight. But in this situation, we don't have any associations of those that you've listed, especially none of them have the right to manage public well-being and how well you say these difficult categories from UNESCO's heritage list with the obligation to use all the money from that management to restore and maintain that same. So it's a completely different situation and it's incomparable to anything you mentioned. Secondly, more than once mentioned today, but every time you mention it, I'm replicating whether you're going to take away the property. No, I absolutely guarantee you that nothing that is the property of the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities will be taken away just once again, neither are the walls these assets nor the money from the walls of their property. So we won't touch anything else. I promise you that on behalf of the Kukuriku coalition. If I may. And thirdly, and thirdly needs to find a solution within the framework of the law, I fully agree that a solution should be found within the framework of the law. That's why we're making this law today, and this is exactly the law within which we need to find a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48969	Reply to the replica, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48970	Thank you. A fellow fact that it's taken away, it's taking away property. So what's the paperwork? So who was doing that paperwork? Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquity. The documentation shall be withdrawn. The money they own is the money from the walls. You know, now I'm going to tell you one fact. I was the deputy mayor in 2002 when they came to me from the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik antiquities when they didn't have as much money as they do today and maybe I'm some co-responsible why they have so much money today. I was in charge of culture in the city of Dubrovnik, and then they came with a demand to increase the price from 20 kuna to 25 kuna. From 20 to 25. I thought it was not appropriate to consider cultural monuments outside Croatia and how much it actually costs to enter such monuments. We did an analysis and that analysis we came up with the fact that every visitor who visited Dubrovnik walls at that time when it was priced 20 kunas to be willing to pay 10 euros, so 70 and some kuna at that time. So that was 11 years ago. And after that, the price went to 50 kuna. After that, we increased the price from 20 kuna to 50 kuna in the city's headship. And that's when all the problems start because that's when the money starts to pile up, and today that price is even higher. It is clear, therefore, that this society has absolutely contributed to the fact that it has also restored with modest, much more modest means that they had restored the walls by then and put them into use today which is very important economic for the city of Dubrovnik and, above all, for the restoration and maintenance of the fortification system of the city of Dubrovnik and so on in the area of the former Republic of Dubrovnik. So, you're subtracting, by this law you're taking away that property. It clearly says here, you take away their money, you take away their files, you break them down, and that's just something that's inadmissible. And this is a practice in the European Union countries that civil society also has the means. But they have the right to just spend purposely returning them to the activity they're dealing with. And that's also the case in this case. [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48971	Thank you, dear colleague Matušić. New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48972	Dear fellow Matusic, in the body of this debate, a public procurement system is glorified. You have to understand, the SDP never, the Kukuriku coalition got anything past public procurement, didn't buy anything, except, now we're going to dial up but we don't have that much time because by morning, let's say the last case, Minister Greek Deputy Prime Minister, the security system, past public procurement, would buy him a man, because he's going to get him a public procurement. But the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities should come into the public procurement system. Of course it's flossula. Why am I worried about the whole story? I'm worried about the danger of red tape. Now they say they won't be dealing with society anymore, because society, they say, can't do that society. Yeah, well, when no one wanted that company to work. It's the Bureau. Be assured there will be two more directors, assistant director, secretary, all of this, the most expensive car, the money will be spent on other purposes. It's not going to work in this system. And let's be witnesses, after six months, the SUV will be bought. It's probably gonna go up on the walls that SUV's gonna go up. It's a practice. And now swearing to anyone it won't be like that, we know it will be, because everything that's been done so far has been done. That's why the law, I said legal violence, as I'm going to say about the law on theatres where a director, or ingenuity, should be replaced, and one theater should be declared which has no conditions to be national, national theatre, pure violence, we will prove that this is violence, so is violence, pure violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48973	There's no answer. ... There is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. Reply to the replica, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48974	I picked it up right away, Mr. President. Maybe you didn't see it. So I thank my colleague for reminding you in fact that in many cases, the SDP in which the amounts were much higher, say Mercedes affair, 210 million euros, for which Mercedes admitted to the US judiciary that he paid bribes to sign these contracts in 2002. It didn't matter if it was public procurement. Or another affair that was with tilt trains, the same direct contract also ordered lean trains that probably don't use anyone today. The same price is huge per wagon, not to mention millions of euros they cost. But, well, now it's really not the topic of this debate. I agree with you that we will bear in mind that certain members of the ruling coalition are calling for a Law on Public Procurement which, under the Law on Associations, is not required to be implemented by the Association of Friends of the Dubrovnik Antiquity because I am sure that they would respect that law. But they are calling for this law... quite certain that the consequences will be actually disrespecting that law, as you have said well that no one will take care of how certain funds will be obtained, which will happen with those funds that will be obtained from the Dubrovnik City Walls.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48975	Thank you very much. A new replica and respected Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48976	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Oh, mate, I must say, you've obviously gone in these replicas far away because it's obviously exhausted quite an argument. Here is a matter of clear, control, control, management from institutions to one monuments of UNESCO's zero category. It's completely normal, natural, logical. If there had been some kind of anomaly that would have been detected, a judicial response, then they'd say why you didn't react, but you let go. No one here is saying that something was going on in this matter, but there's only one thing that's been said here is that really the institutions and local self-government that is otherwise asking to manage the property gets the opportunity to do so. I will also point out to you that your colleague, president of the City Council in Dubrovnik, will therefore have the absolute ability to control and control and invest and spend funds. And what's interesting, to hear from you, is that you also praise that government formerly before the '90s who had the courage to bring together what's very unusual, but also decisions on the giving of associations, governance or return of governance by the public government, or local self-government, or this law of the state makes it, a normal procedure in the given situations and given circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48977	Thank you very much. Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48978	God forbid that I would praise the former government before the 1990s, it is simply not possible because I believe it was a criminally totalitarian communist regime, as the Council of Europe resolution and the European Parliament resolution have also established. Another thing is that some political stakeholders in Croatian society are not ready to face the fact that all the civilized world accepts the values that are being promoted today in the European Union. The other thing you're saying is that it happens to be discovered that someone was working illegally then you'd call us out to see why we didn't spend it before. Well, that's not true. First, you're dissipating now. This isn't about controlling the work of the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities. This is about you confiscating their property, just making some moves that don't comply with the Constitution. Therefore, it is quite clear that this is a single reckoning that corresponds to the only HNS policy it implements through the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48979	New replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48980	My colleague Matušić, in this legislative proposal that you have spoken about, there are other interests, so not only what you said will remain Dubrovnik without about 10 million kuna but also the question and decisions about it, and in this situation of unemployment and who will determine, not only this institution that will immediately strengthen its staff, but also those who will work on selling tickets to the Dubrovnik Walls as well. Who will decide, therefore, will no longer decide the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities rather than the Institute or the City of Dubrovnik. I was, and you were in Brussels too, and I went to Atomium and I paid 15 euros ticket, Atomium, we know what it is, those balls, the carbon atom that's 105 meters high, 15 euros is a ticket. Only on the Atomium so 15 euros, that's 110 kuna. And secondly, someone here has said a replica to you, that there is no association that is profitable and which deals, you are... Babe, etc., gong. So you see in Slavonski Brod, parking is charged by the Association of Defence and Croatian Military Disabilities who, therefore, charge parking and earn profits, pay taxes and everything else as well as any association. So it's a defense firm. So there's such a company just like that charging parking in Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48981	Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48982	To start from the end, absolutely there are associations that absolutely have huge incomes, but of course all these revenues are returned by law back to the activity they deal with and maintain the situation in certain activities, etc., that I don't explain now but there are other sports associations, there are various types of associations that have absolutely great resources. Of course, the question here is who will have the means and how it will distribute them, who will actually draw the end of the employment, who will draw ends in determining which types of activities may be carried out in certain areas that are now the monument of culture, that is, and who will use these properties in question and who will determine who they will be. So that's what this is all about, that's all. It's about taking over one job that the state has, by the way, taken over under this law without investing any funds. The state lays the foundation of this law by the majority of the Governing Council at the Institute of Reconstruction, which should have the funds tomorrow, 50% of the funds from the walls, and the state invests nothing in it. So what's the state doing in this law anyway? What's a state in a law where there's nothing to worry about that doesn't give any money? So what's he doing there?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48983	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48984	Dear colleague, I think we're discussing two important differences here. I also support this bill, but what you yourself said was that the Committee on Legislatives also had objections to Article 36, in paragraphs 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9, which I really believe should be reshape or even unnecessary in the explicit provisions of Article 36 to the owner, i.e. The city of Dubrovnik returns what? The city walls of Dubrovnik, not the city of Senj or my property or yours. So imagine a colleague having your own house, giving it to someone in charge, living in it, a tenant, looking for it back, and then saying, "This one wants to confiscate me." So it was one society that managed it. Now look, let's stop at that. You're fighting hard for that association to manage, it's freedom of association. Now I'm telling you, we can wait for what Minister Linic announced to give to civilian life. Yeah, it's only then that it's going to burst when the controls occur and in associations, especially in this particular case, when this society of friends that's organized as an association, we know that we've had many of our once famous football and basketball clubs were an association of citizens. And what did the citizen get out of it? That a small society managed it. So, this Association of Civil Society, friends as they call themselves, they did what they did. Now they're gonna sell the paperwork, so we're gonna see how they did, who they donated to, and so on. Nothing will be a secret! You don't need yourself for that. It's not something to be afraid of, it's all clean. 50% were obliged to invest in walls, so they manage the property please of 50 million kuna and you think it shouldn't be transparent, that we'll let it go just like that. Therefore, either they remain as an association or they will come up with a final bill that will, of course, improve the suggestions of ours here to make it as high as possible, but on that trail exactly as well as to remain, so to see where the other 50% of the money went because the contract owed 50% of those tickets to rebuild the walls and where there was 50%. Or I don't know the details of that business right now, but what we're afraid of is the transparency of that business. And please forgive me for being so touching, are you saying that colleague Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić loves Dubrovnik less and Dubrovnik Walls than you do? I think there's a rabbit in another bush. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48985	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48986	Great! Let's start at the end. You fellows don't even know that the deal between Dubrovnik City and the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities is in effect, because you know that, if you knew that, I agree that, if you knew that, Then you could hear that contract saying that the other half of you are now saying that you don't know where he's going is going to the city of Dubrovnik. [[Adversity President: Let your colleague speak.]] That's where the rabbit lies! Because the City of Dubrovnik has 50% of the other funds that you don't know where it spends them and doesn't spend them rebuilding the monuments. We don't know where he's spending it! I agree with you, but society is not what is untransparent, but it is the City of Dubrovnik. As far as I'm concerned, you're talking about the contract. The City of Dubrovnik, or its City Council, can complement the annexes of this contract and fix exactly how we will submit the report to society. The company submitted the report in a transparent manner, which is what it is. There's no such thing as intransparentity. Secondly, you are not instituting the transparency of society by this law, but you are instituting and confiscating the property of a colleague. The property he has from the documentation, from the funds he has on his own account that he has and the funds that are in his account. [[/Invader Antičević-Marinović: What property?]] They have money. How it's not property Of course it's about the property. [[One at a time, please.]] If the money in the account of the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities is not their property, but whose property it is then. Then tell me whose is it? Then whose property is it? Yours! [[Intruder Antičević-Marinović: Ours.]] Good job, buddy. He needs to give you that money. That's your money, isn't it? That, bravo, you said great! That's what you want to have with that money, not the Society of Friends, not the citizens of Dubrovnik, but the party of the SDP. Way to go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48987	Thank you very much. I'd like you to tell us what the Company of Friends is selling? ... Yes, please. [[/Intruder Matušić, you don't understand.]] Yes, go ahead. New replica and respected representative Ivan Šimonović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48988	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleague Matušić. A colleague Grubisic has seen exactly what the problem is, the problem is in the income of 50 million kuna, unlike Slavonski Brod, where the income from the tower in Slavonski Brod is zero kuna and there is no problem there. Therefore, I would like the second reading to suggest that the City of Dubrovnik's obligation is 100% the amount of ticket sales, meaning in this case 50 million kuna that it is required to invest in the reconstruction of the walls. That the state as co-owner is 60% of the institutions are also obliged to invest 60% of the income achieved in this case, 30 million kuna. That the City of Dubrovnik is committed to investing as co-owner 30% means new 15 million kunas and counties as 10% owner of the new 10% 5 million kuna, so we will get the amount of 100 million to invest in the reconstruction of the walls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48989	Reply to the replica, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48990	Thank you. A colleague of mine also, I would very much agree with this proposal if the state and all other institutions you mentioned from the city and county had enough funds to invest in the city of Dubrovnik, so some 100 million kuna a year in the restoration of these monuments. But it's not real. But at least she could keep the funding level so far with the amount that the state gave directly to the Dubrovnik Reconstruction Office, which in this case will not be the case. Thus, at least the level of funding that has been worth so far and which has had a natural effect on the Dubrovnik Reconstruction Office, and of course, the Society of Friends on its part restored the walls by virtue of a contract that had with the city about the availability of these same walls. And Mr. President, I will answer you very gladly, the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities founded in 1952, which enjoys a great reputation in the city of Dubrovnik and which is actually due to the fact that the Dubrovnik walls today are in such a state that they want to be visited by millions of visitors. You know what a million visitors are? It is 10% of all visitors visiting in one year of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia has about 10.5 million tourists, so 10% of all these tourists come to those walls thanks to the company's efforts over 6 decades. They are also responsible for raising awareness in the city of Dubrovnik and are responsible for the restoration of these same walls and for putting them into economic function where, through the payment of tickets, they were able to finance the work on the restoration of that highly valuable monument but not only him but also, as the stone walls and the falcon of the tower and the prince's court in Slano have already been said, and the needs are even greater. I did not talk about monuments about the holiday home in the river Dubrovačka that deserve absolutely the investments for which we saw the last monument that has been restored now in the river Dubrovnik thanks to the private initiative which is the pearl of the Latin architecture of the Dubrovnik Republic. Therefore, the needs are enormous. It would be good if you could make it happen from your... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48991	Thank you very much for your answer. I'm happy, you said you were selling. It's not bad that you said it, it's good. Selling Dubrovnik antiques isn't bad. Will the proposer's representative say something more final? Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48992	Thank you, Mr. President. Here at the end of this long day and the debate at the first reading of the law, I remind you, first of all, I would like to thank everyone for the suggestions, the discussions, the opinions, and of course we'll talk about it. We are also prepared to attend a thematic session of the board if it is organised and to see how much it is possible to improve certain articles, items to come to a second reading of the law that will be even better. In any case, it seems to me that the purpose of this law is clear and meaningful. It is primarily focused on the transparent use of public money, and I would say for sure that the legal provisions we followed, which we read, do not speak about that society did not do its job well but really talk about that the Association of Old People as an association of citizens could not according to the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia and cannot have such a type of contract where the public good, cultural good in this case is given to the use and management of the association. We are looking for a way to find a solution that will be better, more transparent, but I also warn my colleagues and colleagues that during the period from April of this year until today, a series of meetings in Dubrovnik were held by representatives of society, representatives of the city and Minister Andreja Zlatar-Violić participated in this. The facts also say that the President of the City Council has been strongly committed to reaching agreement between society and the city, and therefore documents are available from which it will be visible, and I ask that these colleagues are also a little bit of a control, where it will be evident that in the talks orally that some proposals have occurred three times the written proposals have been sent to the public but there has been no answer. So, you have to keep insisting I'm sure you're talking. The law does not confiscate the property of society, it would indeed be correct to discuss it this way because it is evident that the walls are owned by the city of Dubrovnik. As for the funds of the city of Dubrovnik, which he himself invests or spends on the protection of cultural monuments, I think the right answer was given by Mrs. Šimac-Bonačić. The company's revenue from selling tickets to walls goes over 50 million per year, which is more than the total amount that the Ministry of Culture has available for the protection and restoration of heritage in its budget for the whole year. The company’s funds spent in the reconstruction of certain cultural monuments over the last five years according to the reports available and these were only annual reports amounting to 5 million kuna per year. Therefore, this is all the data that gives us all and to think but certainly for five million kunas a year, but also makes us all talk and agree with colleagues and colleagues from society. I must also ask and thank the academic Rainer who is not here to care for my integrity as deputy minister. And I've also heard some analytical psychological or psychiatric definitions of my gesticulation, but I'd like to ask a self-help psychologist to refrain from it when it comes to me. This is not primarily because Mr Grubisic has been investing for over 8 years over 300 million kuna in order to complete a project called Vukedol-Ilock-Vukovar, which I hope will be truly finished next year and give a huge fortune in the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48993	We'll hear the replicas now. First of all, the respected Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48994	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy, you're saying that the sole purpose of this law is transparency and in managing the funds that society collects from the use or possession of the walls themselves. First of all, society is removed from this job at all, this law predicts that society will have to change something in its business to satisfy your opinion that it should be done in a transparent manner rather than simply gone. That's a big difference. So there's no way society can fix something right now, so it's still going to be like what's going on here, and his assets are being confiscated. For how else to interpret article 36, paragraph 9, which says "The society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquity is obliged to hand over the city of Dubrovnik and the money intended for the restoration of old walls, which have not yet been spent for this purpose". According to this law, therefore, society must hand over all its assets and file documents to the city of Dubrovnik. And society has its own obligations, you agree with me there in the summer to hire a large number of Dubrovnik citizens who work on these walls. The company in this business must therefore comply with the positive legislation of the Republic of Croatia, it has its own obligations, has its own debts and clearly has clear incomes to finance what society is doing. Therefore, I do not see how you would change the law in this way without giving up the fundamental purpose of this law, which is to surrender yourself to the city of Dubrovnik completely to the management of the city wall because society can agree to anything but in that case this law should be withdrawn. If society agrees to any of your suggestions, then the law should be withdrawn from the procedure and it would be correct as long as the negotiations of the law and withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48995	Thank you very much. You want to answer, Deputy? No, I don't. Then another replica, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48996	Thank you. Mr. Deputy Minister. So the purpose of this law is not at all stated in its opening reasoning as the purpose of transparency or non-transparentity of the work of society. Not in one word. The company is introduced in the final and transitional provisions and not a single word in the opening statement is spoken, but it is said of improving the terms of work of the Dubrovnik Reconstruction Institute, which is quite another institution that functions in a completely different way, etc. But good. I want to understand these words of the opening sentence in this now address in a way that since it is the first reading and that you have heard a lot of arguments and reflections by and by our opposition representatives that you will think carefully about how you will continue in the future with this bill and that I hope that you will come next time with a proposal that will not affect the trio of the authorities in the Republic of Croatia, who will not confiscate the property of an association of civil society and which will not question the independence of the judiciary in the Republic. I appeal indeed to respect because I think we have justifiably said everything that should have been said today in this bill, the more obviously there is still space where the city of Dubrovnik and the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities can and agree on the future and how they can function. And transparency can always be realized. Any request from you or from the city of Dubrovnik and the city council to the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik may result in a detailed report. My information isn't exactly what you said five million kunas. My information is that 45 million kunas have been spent in the last few years. And I'm allowing that my information may not be updated and it's not accurate, but obviously our information differs, and I'd also like to get the information that you have.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48997	Answer to the deputy minister's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48998	I thank my colleague Matusic. I would only say this if I were to say at first that the purpose of this law is clear and meaningful and that it is aimed at transparent use of public funds that is most important, but I did not say what else you claimed about society. So it is really the law and the amendments and the additions of the laws that speak of the restoration of the endangered monumental part of Dubrovnik, and the two things that are interesting to us both believe, which is the institution and, of course, the fate of the city walls. I appeal once again to this dialogue that is needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u48999	I thank and conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49000	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the restoration of the endangered monumental unit of Dubrovnik, first reading, PZ No. 393. The debate on the proposal is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the restoration of the endangered monumental block of Dubrovnik is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour and 28 votes against, have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49001	We move to - Final bill on amendments to the Law on Theatres, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 470 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Culture Prof. Berislav Šipush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49002	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. It proposes to amend and supplement the Law on Theatres by regulating the following issues. It is defined as the first time that the Croatian National Theatre in Varazdin gets the status of national theatre. The status of the national theatre also needs to be recognised by the Croatian National Theatre in Varazdin for further development of theatre activity and in the context of meeting territorial equality and regional representation. By changing the mission, by changing the vision of the organisational structure by strengthening the repertoires of all artistic disciplines and our artistic and creative potential we are already holding this theatre and... Programmes of dramatic and musical stage art at the highest performance level as a cultural centre of exceptional regional and national significance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Something can also mean that yesterday the 140th anniversary of the building was also marked but not theatre life, cultural life, artistic life in Varazdin. Furthermore, it is determined that the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb appoints and resolves the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a joint proposal by the Minister of Culture and Mayor of the City of Zagreb, unless a joint proposal is established within 7 days of the date of submission of the written request by the Minister of Culture or Mayor of the City of Zagreb for the purpose of establishing a joint proposal, the Intent of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb, appoints and resolves the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal of the Minister of Culture. In the same way, it shall be appointed and dismissed by the performer of the position of the audience of this theatre without conducting a public tender. The relevant legal provisions and the practice so far in the selection process we have seen do not provide a complete solution and therefore we hold that the law is not functional or even enforceable. The composition of the theatre board of public theatres and public theatre groups is determined so that it can have 5 or 7 members, most of whom are appointed by the representative body of the founders from the ranks of prominent artists and cultural workers who are not state officials of the state administration in the county in whose area the theatre is shared, or that they are not officials of the city office responsible for cultural affairs. At least one member is elected from the ranks of theatre artists and one from the ranks of all employees to which this law is aligned with Article 163. The labour law which prescribes that one member of the institution’s management body must be a representative of all workers or employees. The powers of the theatre council are also prescribed and taking into account the real tasks of the theatre council in the functioning of public theatres and public theatre groups are now determined that it also brings forward a programme of work and the development of public theatre and public theatre groups, a financial plan and an annual calculation of theatres or public theatre families. The transitional provision stipulates that public theatres and public theatre groups are required within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law to comply with their work and statutes and other general acts with the provisions of this Act. It is also laid down by the transitional provision that all proceedings will be initiated under the provisions of the Law on Theatres will be completed in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the final provision shall also determine the entry into force of the Law on the first day after the day of its publication in the National Journal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49003	I would like to thank the Deputy Minister. Let's go to the replicas. First honorary colleague of the Sun's Head, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49004	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy. As for the past two years, the Minister of Culture has not again appeared here, I do not know whether a law here will defend the Minister of Culture or she is really so busy that not a single time of day or night or night can spend here in the Croatian Parliament and defend any law which, by the way, is said in two years from your ministry, unfortunately we have not seen a whole law but only changes and supplements. It seems to me that you're here in one of the perhaps invisible positions, and it seems to me like you're conducting and you haven't been to rehearsals. Well, then I don't know if I should continue to say anything about what you've brought out, so let's be fair or be fair, so tell the minister that the reasons for the emergency procedure are actually only in HNK Zagreb, not two at all about the necessity of another national house, so that's the HNK in Varazdin, not getting into that topic and the need to get the status of national theatre, I ask you nicely. Because the cultural public has warned you about it, trade unions etc., you know very well, in that humble public debate that was not, that we are then discussing only this article concerning HNK Zagreb and to postpone all other articles and to discuss it through one normal law rather than in an urgent procedure. So let's be honest, let's be moral and let's actually say what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49005	Another replica of counterpart Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49006	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, so Mr. Deputy Minister. We heard that Varazdin gets the Croatian National Theatre, it gets the status, I would ask you to assign that status to the Virovitic Theatre even if it was a small Croatian National Theatre, given the reductions in the funds they made towards each other. They have the same value in production, in performances, in activities they have each other. Give them a title as Vice-President of the Parliament assigned to our director of theatre by the President of the State as well as the Croatian National Theatre in Varazdin, and taking their money means a little shutting them down. Therefore, this Law does not accomplish anything. Nothing important, we have the Varazdin Croatian National Theatre but we have no money. Well, I'd like to ask them to balance themselves both with Varazdin and viritically as well as with the reduction of funds in these titles.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49007	Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, a respected colleague, Frano Matušić, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49008	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, Assistant, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We're already a little tired, I mean from one bad bill that came to us from the Ministry of Culture, and we're already facing another one just as bad a proposal that unfortunately came to us from the Ministry of Culture. It seems that the Ministry of Culture unfortunately comes only to amend and supplement laws that we already know in advance and only bring for one reason, which is humane. That's the only reason. It seems to me that this proposal that we heard from colleague Glavak is very good and I would like you to accept on behalf of the club this proposal that tonight because of the crisis of governance of our largest theatre house in the Croatian National Theatre in the City of Zagreb, that because of the crisis of this management, we should really discuss only this one point, only this amendment of this law. It seems to me that this would be right, that it would be okay and that we would thus give our contribution to our part in the Croatian Parliament that this crisis of governance in a cultural institution which is the central cultural institution of the Republic of Croatia would simply stop the governance crisis. I ask you to consider this proposal, which I am now confirming on behalf of the HDZ Club, and that all other changes are really in one transparent way that I see you standing up for, that we are indeed discussing them and that we are making the best conclusions. I think when we talk about the culture of our understanding, our thinking shouldn't be very different. I think that in this way we would actually contribute most to the culture and development of cultural institutions in the Republic of Croatia. I personally think that by proposing that the theatre in Varazdin be given the title of the Croatian National Theatre, you opened a box of Pandora's. Why? You will also receive a proposal that I personally as a representative, I believe that the club will support it, now I will use a little bit of abuse, and I will say that as a representative, I have submitted an amendment to assign the status of the national theatre to Marina Zzić theatre in Dubrovnik. If going to a theatre in the Republic of Croatia needs to get that status from smaller theatres, I speak except for the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb, then in any case it is the Dubrovnik Theatre that draws quite certainly the longest tradition. I don't need to tell you here, especially not to you from the Ministry of Culture, about the fact that it was a city that was built by Marina Drać whose works were performed on world stage and that same theater was developed while he lived in that city, which he wrote for these people, whose works were performed in that city several centuries ago. This living theatre tradition of the city of Dubrovnik absolutely deserves, and based on the fact that this theatre works today and that there is a symphony orchestra in that city, therefore there are certain preconditions, and even there is an art school that also has a ballet department, to complete this painting of musical and stage arts that are related to theatres, especially these types, so national theatres that should unite and all art. Then it is quite clear that the city of Dubrovnik deserves to have a national theatre. It was at one point even I think that there were some changes that were... I can't remember exactly the years now, I think it was somewhere in the late '90s, that it had national theater status, but the same without financial support. But I'm saying, I think you've opened one of Pandora's boxes and it needs to be really serious, open-minded and see what's best for Croatian cultural institutions. But let's go back to this proposal. So, unfortunately, this proposal is the need to personnel mainly at the national theatre and is the result of a dispute that exists between the culture minister, Mrs Violic Zlatar, and the current incumbent mayor, Mr Bandic. To make things worse, Mrs. Zlatar Violic at one point in her political activity was even I think the head of the culture of the same mayor, Mr. Bandic, to make the matter worse. So it is that they failed to agree, it is that today there is no more consensus on some institutions that are important for the functioning of democracy and especially for culture in the Republic of Croatia. And I will remind you of the case that before in the Croatian Parliament we had a consensus when we discussed members of the Governing Council of HRT, now we no longer have it, now it is only the ruling majority. We had this consensus, and when we discussed the Governing Council of HINA, we also don't have it today. So, it is said that the democratic left is allegedly to sort of terrorize the minority in the Croatian Parliament and does not agree to compromises, does not agree to consensus. How is it that the HDZ government has agreed to all these consensuss, how we have succeeded, that our culture minister has managed to solve the problems of the appointment of intensitaries in the City of Zagreb with the mayor who was still in the SDP at the time. How did we manage to agree in the Croatian Parliament, by consensus to choose the Administrative Council of Croatian Radio Television? See what the consequences of not agreeing with consensus are today? The consequences are tragic for both the media and the culture. I think that we should really seriously sit down and discuss all these issues and how we should actually approach the problem of cultural institutions and others as I have mentioned. Here is HRT, so the media and public institutions that are important to us for the democratic functioning of Croatian society. We have the fact that this bill leaves the City of Zagreb a commitment, I am not the lawyer of the City of Zagreb, they know how to defend themselves. But there's one illogicality. If the city of Zagreb remains an obligation to finance the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb, I do not see any reason why there is no obligation and agreement on the person in charge and even the possibility of non-contracting. But what does it matter? The Minister of Culture is right, I agree in my cultural policy not to agree with the choice of a particular person to lead a particular cultural institution that is of national importance. I agree here that he has the right to implement his cultural policy and has the right to his opinion on the same person. But there is no right to question the functioning of the same institution. That doesn't have a right. So we need to find a solution. He can express his dissatisfaction with the choice, he does not have to confirm as there have already been cases in our practice, I will remind you of Split. The culture minister did not confirm the intensifier the City of Split proposed because he had the right to such an attitude, and this stance did not lead to a crisis of governance at the same national theatre in Split. Therefore, a way to continue to operate in this institution should be ensured, and this was not ensured by the Ministry of Culture. And the Ministry of Culture is responsible for that, not the City of Zagreb, but the Ministry of Culture. And that's where they were supposed to find a solution. We are still offering this proposal to think about it, to simply discuss only that point, to find a way to solve it, to name it v.d. and to agree on the further points that we have regarding this law on the agenda. So it is absolutely inadmissible to allow this legal vacuum and that in fact the leading Croatian cultural institution in Zagreb was left without being able to manage it, to bring documents and to sign documents that are mandatory to sign on a daily basis because of how the same institution works. So it is simply something that, one situation in which the Ministry of Culture should not have been brought, or should not have brought the Croatian National Theatre. I'm afraid you may be right about the theatre council when you say you have to comply with the other law, the Law on Institutions, when you said that this fifth member should be from the ranks of all theatre employees. But since it's a law that regulates the very question of theater, national theatres I think, maybe I'm wrong, I should really help legal service, or maybe you'll answer me. But I think that regardless of this law, since it regulates especially only national theatres could be left with the possibility that people who understand themselves in the fundamental activity of national theatres could sit in this theatre council, which is art. I'm not going to do it now. I could caricate, so I can tell you who can sit in the theater council. I hope you understand where my thoughts are. Who could be elected to the theatre council based on this amendment to the law. One member, yes. But that one member could be one of all the other employees. I will not list the kind of employees who work in the Croatian National Theatre and I do not want to belittle the activities that are needed in every house, but you understand what I am aiming at and what I am referring to. So I think that it should be possible for both representatives of the theatre to be selected from the ranks of those involved and who understand the fundamental activity of the institution. I don't think we'd be wrong about that, but we'll check that part out, too, and we'll see what's going on. I am indeed appealing to the Ministry of Culture that it no longer comes to us with amendments and additions to laws that regulate human rights issues that are related to their party action, but that we are getting materials that will improve the state of culture. You have already said in the previous law that here is only one facility in the Republic of Croatia, so the monument to the culture of the Dubrovnik Wall earns as much as the Ministry of Culture has available for all cultural monuments in the Republic of Croatia for their maintenance or restoration. I think it's tragic and we all need to improve this situation together. We need to find ways to improve it first because it's our cultural identity. Furthermore, this is an economic basis for development, for new employment. If there were no walls and cultural monuments in the city of Dubrovnik, do you think anyone would come to Dubrovnik? Based on what would he come? What would you come to watch? The beaches are not exactly some sand that are promised by some beautiful holiday on sandy long beaches, etc. So culture is what attracts all visitors to Dubrovnik, cultural heritage is what is absolutely essential for economic activity as well. Today you have programs in Europe. I am convinced that you know enough about them that exactly the foundations of economic development and new employment put culture and living culture of course immaterial and this material in monumental culture. So we need to get to the Croatian Parliament of documents that will be on the trail of such cultural heritage, cultural heritage in use to express economic activity, in the basis of economic activity for our development. This is also used by much more developed countries than we are. I will not speak now of Rome and Roman monuments, of Paris or the legacy of all European states. Of course, it is a fundamental challenge for all tourists who come first and foremost to know the cultural heritage of what is worth in that space. And in that sense there is absolutely a lot of space for us. Only one diet, the city of Paris visits every year three times as many tourists as the whole of Croatia in a year. So 30 million tourists come to the city of Paris to visit cultural monuments first of all and all that Paris means. So there's a lot of space where we can still work together, but here's my appeal that we really work in the interest of the culture of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49009	Now we continue the replication practice. The first to apply for the replica was the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49010	Dear colleague Matusic, I agree with that first sentence of yours you said you should discuss seriously. What is proposed, this piece of paper, a few papers, this is really unserious because I totally agree with you about culture should make decisions by consensus. But it is, it hides behind that desire to humanize. It has nothing to do with the Law of Theatre. A year before the term of office of the applicant shall be opened a tender for the applicant. Then a public debate was to be opened on the new Kazakh law needed by Croatia. In the 10 months debate to end and two months ago to give in the parliamentary procedure a new Law on Theatre. Remember that there were promises from the same ministry that last summer a set of media and media strategies would come. He's almost two years old now, so he's been late for a year and a half. This is very unserious, and I'm going to talk more widely about it on behalf of the Labour Club and on my personal behalf because I think it's primarily about so not being serious, I'd say a little bit more boastful. And the other thing is, this topic you've opened on the criteria for obtaining national theatre status. We are the country that according to the population has the most national theatres in the world. And I think if we opened that Pandora's box we should close it right now and even discuss whether the other three theatres deserve the status of the national theatre, let alone expand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49011	Time. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49012	I agree with my colleague Vuksic with everything you said but you reminded me, I forgot to point out in my speech on behalf of the club but now I will say that you reminded me that the procedure for selecting HNK in Zagreb was on the agenda four times. It was annulled twice for formal reasons, but twice the same council had a proposal the minister did not accept. And in that council sits the same serious and responsible people who deal with culture, who are not anonymous, who have their names and last names and who certainly had reasons why they proposed certain proposals to the Ministry of Culture which the minister did not accept. But I'm still saying she had the right even not to accept it within some cultural policy, if it's really a cultural policy and to argue why she doesn't accept it. But they had no right to bring a national theatre into this situation to bring about a crisis of governance in the same national theatre. This is simply a cultural shame for Croatia, what is happening today with HNK is a cultural disgrace for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49013	Second replica, colleague of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49014	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you appealed to your colleague Matušić in the final address on behalf of the club for something to be made for the benefit of culture, so I will just remind myself what has been done over the past two years for the benefit of culture, which is that the funds are reduced to the intended culture still fall from the state budget. This year they fell to a record low percentage, smaller than the one the government had in 1998. So much for caring, or not caring about culture or non-culture. You're also wondering why there's no consensus? Well, there's no consensus, there isn't. Here, Vice President of the House was in a previous meeting in opposition and he knows that we've passed important laws by consensus. No, now there's no consensus, there's just similarities and there's some new winds of democracy. If that was a lex Vlahusic earlier, is this lex Lederer while we've already been here in these lexes these last few days talking so much. That's a question we can ask today. The same is the case with all cultural workers on an extremely short public debate that is not presented, no observations have been accepted. For example, the directors of national theatre houses, cultural people, have not been invited to the Ministry of Culture. No one's paying attention to the union's objections. The union's already announced that they're suing the Constitutional Court, so we're going back to square one? It wouldn't be the first time. We know how laws are passed, so then the government has 30 amendments on its own, which is really outrageous. Or the Society of Drama Artists appeals, praying in the interest of theatre art to give up the ministry of hasty amendments and additions to the existing law and to prepare a new Theatre Law. So, once again, please let's wake up above the parties, I'll finish the vice president, and once again please tell me then it's only one article we're going to change just him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49015	And to this reply by Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49016	Thank you. Well, unfortunately, it's obvious that in a hurry to try to solve this problem of the HNK crisis that some steps have been skipped in preparing these amendments to the law and that it hasn't been too much to listen to the waist. I didn't want to say it on behalf of the club, but now you've opened that question. We have seen these inscriptions in the media, we have seen the attitude of the profession that absolutely opposes both trade unions and artists, and unfortunately the Ministry of Culture has brought ourselves and ourselves into this assembly, but unfortunately artists who are also connected to this house, and, indirectly, all those who come to follow the HNK programme in Zagreb have dragged into this bad story an uncultural story in fact, not a cultural one and dragged politics to the bottom into an institution where there should not be so much politics. It's an institution where there shouldn't be so much politics. Yes, the drama is unfortunately today the characteristics of what is happening for the Croatian Croatian National Guards, but I hope that the programme will return to the frameworks of the real drama programme because Zagreb and the HNK deserve it, first and foremost, those artists who are neither easy nor simple and who are really fighting for their rights and are fighting for the status of art. And then we help them, we don't. It's an appeal to anyone who deals with this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49017	Third replica of counterpart Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49018	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Matusic, you mentioned something about why this law is in this adoption today, I'd say if it weren't for Bandic to win, there wouldn't be any of this law either. Perhaps if Rajko Ostojic had won would have been a consensus between the Kukuriku coalition, he would have already been appointed an HNK intent and everyone would have been fine. 17 days on the website of the Ministry of Culture, as long as the debate lasted 17 days in February 1st to 17. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, I will only tell you one that is so sound, and it speaks discriminatoryly and contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is the abolition of the powers and duties of the Croatian Theatre Council in Zagreb as an expert body to participate in the process of the appointment of the Intentary Council of the Croatian Ministry of Culture in Zagreb in the process of appointing intensifiers brought down to the administrative body of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Croatia which only calls for a tender and collects the receipts which then passes to the Ministry of Culture, and the Ministry of Culture is trying to comply with the city of Zagreb's choice of candidates, there is no consensus about it, the Minister proposes to the Government, the government appoints who it wants. Here is the procedure in this democratic society today, which is the achievement of democratic and consensus on certain important things in culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49019	And this replica corresponds to colleague Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49020	Thank you. I must say, I'm afraid you're right. When you said politics was the reason for these changes and additions, the debate, as you said, lasted 17 days in February. And indeed, the question is why do these changes and supplement by emergency procedure, and they didn't come before us in March, in April of May, but comes now that the crisis in governance has taken place. Indeed, just a confirmation of what you have argued is that it is exclusively a matter of political staffing and non-disclosure of the obviously Minister of Culture in this problem and these talks with the mayor and his associates who absolutely have an artistic ensemble, as you said there is also a Theatre Council which is reduced to a ficus by the Ministry of Culture which is not good. It's not good absolutely not good with that I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49021	And the next replica of the esteemed Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49022	Thank you, Vice President. I agree with colleague Matušić that perhaps dinner would be better if we did not discuss anything else in the valley about the process of appointing HNK in Zagreb, although... clearly state our position. But as for raising the HNK in Varazdin to national level, I'd like to say a few words. I do not mind, however, that the town of Varazdin meets with its cultural profile the criteria that a national house should meet in Croatia. In the very public debate as far as I can see here in this text of the law, there was also a question of what criteria should be met in order for a house to become a national house. And I think that these criteria should be prescribed, so I might believe that Varazdin would meet them, but he might also meet another theatre in Croatia, for example, Theatre Marina Držić in Dubrovnik. So that would be the right approach for the government to be credible. It was necessary to establish the principles of criteria and then if the HNK in Varazdin met it then it would become a national house and I believe and I don't mind having Varazdin as a national theatre house. But it seems to me that in this way the minister who comes from the HNS liberal Democrats has also satisfied the city of Dubrovnik tonight because she gave the city of Dubrovnik the city wall management of that law just before, so now it does not need to give him additional status of the national house of Teatru Marina Držić, and then he will give his mayor in Varazdin again... With this other law, HNS allows the city he manages to obtain the status of national houses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's so much for that... in the Croatian People's Party which has been brought back to life here tonight through one law and another. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49023	Reply to the replica Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49024	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, of course he's right, but you gave me a chance because I don't think I mentioned in my speech on behalf of the club that I agree with the fact that Varazdin probably deserves that status. But I'd be safer with that if we had the criteria. That's why I told the Deputy Minister that this move to put the Croatian National Theatre in Varazdin among other national theatres, in fact by granting that status that they opened the Pandora's box. Because for what we really need criteria, we really need criteria and very clear and strict criteria, which means what a certain theatre house must have, what kind of program, how it is financed, etc., etc. Unfortunately, there is a real impression here that it is exclusively about favouring a city in which a person from the same party from which the culture minister comes is in power. Unfortunately, I'm sorry because this one now falls on Varazdin and on the theater in Varazdin that I love, in which I come almost every year or every other year as a participant of a competition that we organise in Varazdin, etc., to not mention and to which I have the best opinion, indeed. I appreciate their efforts and their programme and everything they offer well to the audiences of Varazdin and all of Croatia. But in this way, you have actually soiled the town of Varazdin and its theatre with day-to-day clientalism, what your colleague, a colleague, is right, colleague Bačić. You dirtyed up that area of culture that shouldn't have been dirty. So please do not do this today, withdraw this proposal, withdraw the proposal simply to discuss only the crisis of governance in the Croatian National Theatre and leave this for one serious debate in which we will set the criteria for all in Croatia to know why the Sibenik Theatre would not be.../Time./... the same Croatian National Theatre? Why wouldn't it be Virovitic? So we need to know why someone can and why someone can't get that status.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49025	A colleague, Matušić, will be followed by the replica of counterpart Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49026	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, my colleague Matusic, I agree with you that the right to accept the minister's cultural policy is his right to give an opinion and consent to the choice, the choice of intensities. This right was used by two of your ministers in a negative assessment of the election of HNK in Split, you mentioned a split. And this has caused all of this, and you are in favour of setting up V.D. and this has caused this within three years of erosion in the Croatian National Theatre in Split. So the solution with the V.D. on the Internet turned out wrong. The current situation, which is now currently in place at the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb, has clearly indicated that it is necessary for an urgent procedure to do exactly what the governance crisis says to react and must react to who but the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Find an adequate solution, it can be ideal, it doesn't have to be ideal or optimal but it has to be a solution to make HNK work. I'm just telling you because of Split that maybe you didn't get to know enough about what happened because he had V.D., because I'm V.D. which has a term of office of one year and of course the question when it comes to him that he can implement it in a year creates a situation that one creative, cultural, cultural production, labour-intense art, the exceptional art that we have in Split and in Croatia is essentially stagnating. Because there are absolutely no projects that can be realized and the HNK erosion in Split has clearly shown that... It's not a solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49027	The replica matches Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49028	Thank you. I do not know from what you have concluded that the Croatian National Theatre in Split has experienced erosion. I don't know what you could have concluded. And let's say I'm a professor academic musician and I wouldn't dare give that grade for the Split National Theatre. It just doesn't stand. Artists who worked downstairs, who participated in the realization of these programmes, certainly realized these programs at a high level and received even excellent criticism. I also follow the programmes from Split, Zagreb and Varazdin and Rijeka and Osijek and all others. That's my profession. And it is so easy to say that the Croatian National Theatre in Split experienced erosion because the minister did not take other measures than you are now predicting by these urgent changes but has taken a legal measure to make it known that he does not agree with the choice of intensities. In his cultural politics he saw no place for such, for such a kind of program. However, these programs have changed. They also had their directors and ballets and music and dramas, etc., who actively participated, who contributed to making this program absolutely by my assessment if not excellent, then very good. So there's absolutely no way to talk about the erosion of the institution itself. But the management crisis in Zagreb can be talked about. But the crisis is not the fault of Milan Bandic or the HNK theatre council, nor are the artists at the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb, but it is the ministry, or his minister, because he wants to implement a solution as humanely as he wishes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49029	We will hear at the end and the replica of Hrvoje Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49030	Vice President. My colleague Matušić, I was personally at the Marina Držić City Theatre in Dubrovnik, I would really not mind if the theatre was given the status of the Croatian National Theatre and we absolutely agree. But what we disagree on, which is your constant return to humanizing, humanizing, humanizing. That's actually the most common word you mention here for this debate. This is about finding a solution, so the solution is the Government proposes that in the event of the inability of an agreement between the mayor and the minister of culture on a proposal from the Minister who proposes to appoint the so-called Indentator of the Croatian National Theatre and precisely for reasons to avoid such a situation, the situation of the governance crisis. So that's the point of this law, and I can't agree with you that this is about personneling.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49031	Answer, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49032	Thank you. Well, my colleague, I don't know how else to tell you that it's about staffing when it's clear to everyone that it's about personneling. I didn't mean to speak, especially not on behalf of the club, but now I'm going to say, now you've pulled me by the tongue about the staffing. Well, I myself was the victim of such a political staffing. In 2000, I was removed from the leading place of the Dubrovnik Summer Games or the Dubrovnik Summer Festival as it was then called because games, you know in Croatia do not say when someone plays to play, in some other countries in the environment may say, playing round and playing an instrument etc. Not in Croatia, but now it's not a topic. But what I was about to say was that I was also resolved for political reasons, which was also published in the media, political shifts, etc. And instead of me, they put two principals. One was Slobodan Novak, and the other was Miso Mihočević, the two directors who were conflicting. Fortunately, the institution did not suffer because it had a program that I prepared together with my colleague Dešpal and colleague Ivancic, and he did not suffer. It's the same thing here, I hope you won't get the program to suffer, and here it's exclusively about staffing and staffing in HNK Zagreb, you can't agree, so your minister, I know that you have to defend, it may not be a very pleasant duty for you, because this is impenetrable. This is irrevocable in front of the Croatian cultural public and don't let them hear you say it's not about staffing because it's about personneling. Unfortunately, it is only political personnel and disagreements with proposals from the Theatre Council that went towards the ministry. On two occasions, the Theatre Council proposed a solution to the ministry. If the ministry did not agree with these solutions, it could have found solutions to avoid the management crisis and it had to, it had to be, it had to take care not to have a management crisis, and it is especially necessary not to just create a management crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49033	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, the debate time will be shared by colleagues Natalija Martincevic and Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49034	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear deputy associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here I am today going to talk about a part of this law, about the rest of my colleague Coleman, but about a part of the law that is so important to me and the inhabitants of Croatia's SZ. In this law, the Croatian National Theatre in Varazdin finally gets the status it has long earned and won, which is the status of the national theatre. For the town of Varazdin, for the Varazdin County but also for Međimurska, Krapina-Zagorska and Koprivnica-Kryzevnica County this is a really important event and recognition, so I could say even finally respecting the value and importance of the entire SZ region through its temple of culture through its theatre. For this very reason, I would really like to get the support of MPs wider, so I will use this debate to brief you on the work of the Croatian National Theatre in Varazdin, of course how much time this half debate allows me. The theatre in Varazdin has almost 4 centuries of tradition and theatre life in the city can be continuously monitored from the beginning of the 17th century to today. The theatre building as one of the most beautiful and functional in this part of Europe was designed by Herman Helmer himself and opened in 1873, and here we just yesterday marked 140 years since the opening of our theatre. The first professional ensemble was founded in 1898, with drama and opera and opera in 1915. In the history of the Varazdin theatre, some of the biggest Croatian theatre artists acted in it. The Varazdin Theatre has always been authentic, through its approach to programmes and audiences over the centuries has been built as different, by choice of texts, authors, directors, and even stage speech and access to theatre work as truly special and by many autonomous theatre institutions. Three important elements marking the Varazdin theatre yesterday and today are the co-existence of traditional and experimental theatre, the Cacao language, or the Cacao theatre and the permanent connection to Croatian literature. The Varazdin theatre can also be said to be the guardian of the Caicavian language on the scene, which is extremely important because the language is deeply marked by the opinion and spirit of a cultural community, and the Varazdin theatre is gravitated by the area of the Cacao Croatia area with hundreds of thousands of residents whose mother-in-law is Caiauan and they certainly deserve their central theatre. There's a lot I can talk about with the theater right now, but of course time is too little. I think it's still important to mention the extremely rich musical tradition of the city of culture. The theatre also plans a specific repertoire, primarily a chamber baroque opera that does not compete with the repertoire of other operas in Croatia, but complements it because Varazdin is called to one of the richest musical traditions in Croatia and to the great musical potentials of today, which is naturally witnessed by 43 anniversary of our baroque evenings as the world's most famous Baroque music festival. Here's a nice story about the Varazdin Theatre I'll have to say a few very concrete and convincing figures, which is that there is also a continuous increase of visitors from 72000 from 2700 to almost 100000 in 2012. In 2012, we had 19 prime ministers, 10 reruns with 271 performances of up to 143 guests, primarily in the region of which we are talking about 15 abroad. 26 performances of the Theatre Study of Youth with Guests, next to the exhibition, with the organization of a great ball as a unique cultural event in Croatia that guests from around the world are coming to. Let me mention that 20 years of children's puppet scene in the theatre is also being marked this year. Given everything here, given the vision and mission, the change of the organisational structure, the artistic strengthening of repertoires, and especially in view of the programming, dramatic, musical, stage art, it is realistic to conclude that the status of the Croatian National Theatre in Varazdin has long passed, so in fact this law would only recognise the real situation. I wanted to speak only positively in this debate, but due to dozens of questions and bitter reactions from our citizens, I have to refer to the letters that have appeared in the media these days, letters full of underestimation, full of literal lies and deception, written with one single goal, which is to degrade, demean and humiliate the Varazdin Theatre and the city of Varazdin. These letters, especially Mrs. Loncar's letter to the MPs, are indeed false after each other. I can't answer to any of those statements here right now. But I'll just say, I'll look back on one thing, and it concerns direct funding from the city of Varazdin, in which I am, as Deputy Mayor of the City of Varazdin, very much addressed. In fact, there were words that the city of Varazdin reduced funding for some 74,000 kunas, which of course is not true. We, in turn, increased the amount of funding by 160,000. Only the funds for which he obtained the credit for rebuilding the theatres that we paid for as a city were reduced. Otherwise, the city of Varazdin financed the theatre alone with nine and a half million kuna a year. But these ladies who spoke so uglyly about the Varazdin Theatre did not insult the government either, did not insult the Ministry of Culture, did not insult the representatives who support this proposal either. The citizens of Varazdin, Varazdin County and 500,000 people living in northwestern Croatia, whose home theater is and who have a great desire for us as a region to be at least once and a half equal with other regions in Croatia. We in the north are used to never getting anything, I have to be honest with you no matter what government is about, so we've chosen this confession with work, quality, effort. I believe that's exactly what the MPs of this House will recognize and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49035	The debate on behalf of the club will continue, colleague Coleman. Igor Coleman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49036	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the distinguished last surviving, fellow Members and colleagues, the esteemed Deputy and Assistant Minister. Is one of the key problems of HNK in Zagreb? Of course it is. This should not be mystified, nor should anyone intend to hide it, and it is not something that needs to be discussed at all. However, the problem arose in this topic primarily because one of the parties in the process turned the whole story into a personal conflict and brought it down to a personal level, and it was neither a personal conflict nor a personal level. The problem of the HNK in Zagreb is that in 8 years, so in 2 mandates of the Institute is not and I stress that, in 8 years in which the financial situation in both the city and the state was better than nothing was done. Neither the other scenes were open, nor was it the work of artists especially in ballet, nor was it about international positioning and the strongest Croatian theatre house. The programme offered by the Indentator for the third term did not suggest that anything would change in this regard. Her term of office expired 1.9. So it's not about the shift. The term of office expired 1.9. No one's replacing anyone. And there should be further emphasis that it cannot run for V.D. because it is not an employee of the theatre, which is one of the conditions for V.D. And now why am I saying all this? Because now because of all this, not because of personal conflicts, animosities, competitions, but because the whole story was not good enough, we found ourselves in a stalemate position because we cannot agree on two points - the Ministry and the Mayor of Zagreb. And that stalemate has shown what? It has shown that the law does not necessarily need to be amended for this reason, it is necessary to find a way that in this situation when there is an inability to choose an applicant that there is some next instance that will make a decision and, according to the proposal of this law, it is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal of the Minister of Culture. So, this law, in fact, this situation has shown us this is not enforceable and it doesn't matter who is who and who loves who and who doesn't love who. The law is inconclusive and we've seen it now and that's why it needs to be changed. The second thing, an important change is this clearer definition, my colleague Matušić spoke of it. This is the definition of the composition of theatre councils including compliance with the provisions of the Labour Act and the inclusion of that one representative of all employees. I must say, and you've made that clear in your debate and in the public remarks in this law there have been objections to that level. These remarks seem to me for several reasons unwarranted. First, with permission that I may be wrong, but I still don't see why in theory it would mean that a representative of all employees is not someone with an art education or one of the art employees, but I appreciate that I may be wrong. But what I'm certainly not wrong with is this, Article 4 of this bill. The Theatre Council adopts the Annual Work and Development Programme of the Public Theatre, adopts the Financial Plan, adopts the Annual Account and Purchase Plan, monitors the implementation of the programme and its financial and personnel implementation, discusses and adopts programme and financial reports, adopts statutes and performs other tasks. When you see all these powers of the Theatre Council, then you actually ask a question, so why wouldn't one of the members of the Theatre Council be the head of accounting, say, at the theater? Or the head of law? I'm a cartoonist. Why not? So from the combination of amendments to the Theatre Council and the change of powers, it seems to me that there is actually an answer that we are not talking about simply being in line with the Labour Act, so we have to have an employee representative. And that's about what I wanted to say about this law on behalf of the HNS Club. I don't, of course, have to stress specifically that we will support him. We also think it is important because of HNK Varazdin and because of HNK Zagreb and due to the end and composition and authority of theatre councils. It seems to us that regardless of the remarks, these changes are going in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49037	Now we move on to replicas. First colleague Frano Matušić to present Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49038	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrades, I will once again support you in your request for national theatre status, but I must point out that it would be good to introduce criteria. I believe you'll agree to that. You've given good reasons, maybe in some parts you've exaggerated when you talk about some festivals as the best in the world, etc., it's nice when you praise what you have to offer but you don't have to go too far. But in any case, I think it is necessary to establish the main criteria for obtaining national theatre status, the main criteria. Because the theatre in Dubrovnik has a longer history than yours in Varazdin, you know, and I dare say more significant names when we talk about cultural heritage, about writers, comediographers, poets. By Marin Držić, who is absolutely modern with all the best comediographers of Europe, Ivan Gundulić whose lyrics are not forgotten and must not forget "O beautiful, dear, sweet freedom", so the most beautiful lyrics, the most beautiful dramatic texts performed not only on the stage in Croatia but also outside Croatia and very much on these criteria if we were already comparing the Dubrovnik Theatre certainly deserves the status of the national theatre. It is not in the proposal, I hope that you will support as I support that Varazdin gets the status of national theatre I hope that you will support and that Dubrovnik will get the status of national theatre. But let's not forget Sibenik, let's not forget other places. So we need to establish criteria because this is how we could go indefinitely with the opening of new, i.e. to obtain the status of national theatres in all cities where theatre activity has been present throughout the centuries.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49039	The replica matches the respected Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49040	Here I am thanking you very much, in any case, for your support, and I think that theater in Varazdin certainly deserves it. And I can agree with this part that clear criteria should certainly be established. The criteria under which the town of Varazdin, or the HNK in Varazdin, has gained national theatre status are the criteria which now apply and which now exist, and relate to these four national houses that already have this status. That it might be necessary to define the new criteria I support it in any case and in any case support the Dubrovnik Theatre to initiate this procedure as we have started it. And if you truly meet all these criteria you will also have full support here are the MPs and from Varazdin. ... Yes, you must initiate procedure as far as I'm concerned. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] As a city, we've made a proposal. We've worked very hard on it. The Varazdin Theatre has indeed been meeting absolutely all the criteria for obtaining this national status for a longer period of years, especially the criteria for territorial and regional representation. We are actually representing the entire northwest of Croatia and I think it may actually be the most important criterion that the Varazdin House deserves exactly this national status.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49041	The replica will now raise the respected Suncana Glavak, also at the exhibition of Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49042	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Martincevic, of course, doesn't doubt at all about this part where you said that the Varazdin Theatre deserves the same as its entire ensemble to get the status of national theatre. I know that for years, the Indentantan has also been working on finding a model of co-financing with what is co-financed in the programme or leaving the city's budget, i.e. the Ministry of Culture. However, I will have to correct you so not only has the city of Varazdin been co-financed over the past few years by the HNK in Varazdin. So, from 2006 to 2009 more than 20 million kunas combined was the Ministry of Culture and the City of Varazdin invested that the Varazdin HNK building would first and foremost be restored, so that the actors, the entire ensemble, would get decent working conditions because you know I hope the state of the theatre until then. So, if we're talking numbers and facts, please let's be clear. So from 2006 to 2009, over 20 million kuna. And as far as I'm concerned, my position, full support to the Varazdin HNK, has not been asked at all. However, as for the finding that the law is inconclusive, the law is enforceable only the minister does not implement it. And one inaccuracy is said, here is not true to v.d. He's got to be an HNK employee, so please let's go over the facts and look at the law for a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49043	Replication response, Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49044	Of course the Ministry of Culture co-financed the reconstruction, and I didn't talk about co-financing of the renovation of the building itself, I was talking about co-financing of the programme. The town of Varazdin finances 9.5 million kuna on an annual level fully independent business and work and programme activity of the Theatre in Varazdin. We occasionally received funds from the Ministry of Culture for software activities, they were specifically last year amounting to 339 thousand kuna. Here is perhaps only for the combination that the city of Zagreb gets 43 million kuna in total, so 5 million 900 to finance the programme. So just to see a little order of size to compare cities and funding from the state budget of theatre houses because I think, in any case, the Varazdin Theatre still deserves a little more important support from the state in that programme section so that it can achieve and implement better and better quality programs. I think it's for all of us, and especially for us in the region is of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49045	Next is the replica Maria Habeka at the exhibition of Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49046	Dear colleagues, Martincevic and I would like to briefly refer to your debate on the status of the National Theatre in Varazdin. Namely, if Croatia enters the National Theatre in Varazdin in the circle of national theatres there are Zagreb, Osijek, Split and Rijeka not only to increase the number from 4 to 5 but to Varazdin HNK, there will be some new difference in the society. I would like to point out that the Varazdin HNK is neither so far nor will it imitate any other HNK in the future, it should also be said that it is a theatre that has features that distinguish it from other theatres. Here I would like to mention three specifics that are important to the Varazdin Theatre, which are the setting of traditional and experimental theatre, the Cacao language and the Cacao theatre and the permanent connection to Croatian literature. I would like to point out that the Varazdin Theatre is the guardian of the Caucus language on stage and the Syntagma of the new Caucus Theatre is tied exclusively to the HNK in Varazdin. Therefore, I think that if the HNK in Varazdin gets the status of the national theatre, that Varazdin will only confirm its status as the cultural seat of the north-west Caiavian Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49047	Reply to the replica Natalija Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49048	I agree with you anyway. Our theatre offers something new, something authentic, something special that we have been developing for years in the town of Varazdin in Varazdin County and the entire northwest region. What you have said is what I highlighted in my presentation and what I think is particularly important, which is the preservation of our cacauity, the preservation of our Cacao language, which speaks almost half a million people of northwestern Croatia, that is something we must certainly keep, appreciate, and the theatre as a temple of culture is the right place for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49049	The latest replica of Natalija Martinecevic will be presented by Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49050	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Martincevic, to give the Varazdin Theatre national status, and I'm not against it. However, it would be nice for this law to have criteria for obtaining such national theatre status. But I wouldn't talk about it because much of it was said by fellow Matusic about the criteria probably by performances, premieres, guesting and hosting other houses. They should probably be the basic criteria for obtaining such status. The region also stands. In this law, it would be good if the criteria for the allocation of funds that have been reduced to you were the same as the Virovitic Theatre as everyone else except those who are members of the Drama Council, the bodies that allocate state money for the financing of the theatre and give themselves that money. I hope that you will now take steps in this eclatant conflict of interest in the Ministry of Culture and these 50,000 kunas that Mrs. Banovic has assigned herself, given that she has received 115 thousand kunas from 215 she has received so far. The city and the county will finance their own. If they stopped as well as the city of Zagreb would not function the theatre, as the town of Varazdin probably would have stopped worrying as the county of Varazdinska certainly there would have been no such success there would have been no such activity, there would be no such novelty. I believe that in this law there should have been a criterion for granting donations to theatres in the Republic of Croatia, as well as for obtaining national status.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49051	The replica matches Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49052	I must say that I absolutely agree with you in particular in this part that all theatres should receive greater and better support from the state budget and I believe that there will be opportunities for this because, of course, in the difficult and crisis times, what is first cut is culture from the state budget. Otherwise, I have to say that we in the city of Varazdin did not reduce cultural resources, nor did we reduce publishing funds for the Varazdin Theatre, which just means that we are really behind that theater and that we want it to be in its own quality and all the rest to justify this status that I believe, with the consensus of his representative, will be assigned here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49053	Now there are three replicas to the part of the exhibit presented by Igor Coleman. The first replica rises to the respected vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49054	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Coleman, I agree with you in that segment when you mentioned solving the key problems of the theatre. But that's exactly the point. So instead of having a law that will solve problems, which will concern theatres, dramas, ballets, operas, so that will try to solve the systemic problems that objectively exist today in theatres that will try to regulate better than so far theatre activity on the well-being of theatre employees, and of course the audiences, instead we have what we have. That's not it. However, the government itself, which proposes this, says it is being brought in order to address the problem of the current crisis, I will add even particular interests rather than as a result of strategic thinking about what needs to be improved in theatre life and how to help theatres. And that's the key problem. So, let's say this law is made clear so that the first instance is created when the beginning of the year is created to replace, therefore, the HNK's intensifier Zagreb and to make the Varazdin Theatre the Croatian National Theatre. O.K., but why the price of this procedure is not and thank God it was 9 months, did not result in some quality step in solving the problem of theatre that objectively exists but was allowed for the government's inability to come into such a situation as is now that HNK Zagreb is without intention Without the V.D., it could have been resolved, why wasn't the emergency procedure in May? [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49055	The replica matches Igor... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49056	Thank you, Igor Coleman, thanks to Mr. Vice President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49057	I'm sorry, Coleman, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49058	It's getting late. And colleague Reiner, well you and I always sort of actually make it on that field where... politics is halfway across the road. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I can't say that I disagree that we should solve theatre problems more systematically and systematically. Of course, that doesn't mean we shouldn't do this right now. So it does not in any way dispute the need for this law to be passed in this form now. That's one thing. And second, we must not forget in this entire debate, you often talk about the incompetence of the government that led to this situation. But there are two sides in the process, one is the ministry and the other is the mayor of Zagreb. And the Government of the Republic of Croatia is precisely trying and solving the problem that has arisen because the other party in this procedure is absolutely in no way willing to cooperate to go to such an extent as to assess that it will stop funding the HNK which is ultimately not possible from the founder's position. And just another little note, it's not about the shift, the intensics have expired on 1. Nine.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49059	Next is Branko Vuksic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49060	I would also point out that fact that you said to Mr. Coleman, and that's the identity that hasn't been removed, her term of office has expired, and that's true. I fully agree with your assessment of the situation in the Croatian National Theatre. I think 8 years past and previous mandates of the Croatian National Theatre worked as if it were illegal, that it worked badly. But here neither you nor your predecessors spoke of the essence. I am, in fact, saddened by both the gentleman and the other MPs who are, that I do not now appoint because I cannot replicate them, who said we will support you so support us. ... As a matter of fact, there is no recognition of the theatre, the Varazdin Theatre should be given recognition, status, that's what they used to share acts so they gave the rank because Ciro Blažević, so let's give Ciri, why not have it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, this is about the criteria. There's no criteria. And there are no criteria. I will speak in the debate which criteria are common in the world. There are criteria in the world that are. Yeah, you should've passed the law before I said, you should've passed the Law of Theatre not this ficlek, this just looks like revenge now. Now let's replace Mrs. Lederer who, in my opinion, didn't do a good job. But now I'm on her side because I'm on the weak side, because violence is done. Because it could have been done a long time ago. And all the nebulises that the ministry suggested appeared in the paper who might be V.D. That's what you can see. I'll give you a list of who was an intent of the Croatian National Theatre. Well, that's funny what we do. We... an institution that is very important in Croatian history. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49061	The replica matches Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49062	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So in the first part we agree completely, in the second part of the procedure around HNK Varazdin lasts for as long as I know. A very detailed and thorough theater has prepared itself for the status it receives in this Law. It is probably the biggest pity that, unfortunately, the Varazdin HNK entered this unfortunate story with the Zagreb HNK, and in this way, it is actually one part of that garbage to express myself from this story, it has also fallen on the Varazdin HNK which, under more normal circumstances, we make this decision then probably the whole story would not be at all controversial. As in the end, in fact, most of you are not even controversial but simply that cloak of these other circumstances has actually polluted this whole process.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49063	And the last replica, the esteemed Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49064	First of all, I'm just going to recommend that last year's theater received just over 300 thousand kuna. It was determined by a council appointed by the Minister of Culture. The same council that's being built on certain provisions of the law. So, the council appointed by the minister is against some of the things that are proposed in the law. So that council estimates that the programs that are proposed deserve as much money as you... that council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Point. They probably carry out in accordance with the minister's specific cultural policy. As far as the law goes, counterpart Coleman says it's a fall in position, there's no law that can't be put in a stalemate sooner or later. But what's very bad is that we did it with the Law on Croatian Radio Television. First, we didn't fill the programming board and the Supervisory Board for over half a year, so we brought television, and then we have a resulting conflict of interest. So we did it with HINA, so we have a conflict of interest that brought it to the committees of conflict of interest, the commission of conflict of interest, I hope that doesn't happen to us with this law and with the theatre. What the minister dares, culture, can say, that I disagree, doesn't fit any more or less in my program, but he can't leave an institution without a signatory. This has not happened for decades what we have in HNK Zagreb, decades, in any if you want the system and regime. And now we're solving the situation, so we're going to emergency procedures, law-making. There won't be any deal. I find it terribly strange that here is the mayor and former head of the culture of the city of Zagreb, the current minister, I cannot agree, and they were the mayor and head of the town. I wasn't...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49065	Replication response, Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49066	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I don't know, that the thesis about Mrs. Zlatar being the headmaster, and Mr.... what does that have to do with it, I mean I can't agree, the fact is that I can't agree and now I'm not getting into it at all, that it was the coalition government, that... the mayor was elected in the assembly, etc., so I'm not getting into it at all. That argument seems absolutely to me, actually has nothing to do with what's going on right now. The fact is that I can't agree, no matter what it was and when it was and the fact is that at the end of the day and at the end of the whole story, you have the responsibility of the culture minister and you have the right to do so, it's the responsibility of the Minister of Culture to provide HNK with the indent and this procedure is exactly what we're doing, and that's why we're passing this law, and that's why we're doing it at 8:23:52 a second on that watch, and 48 on that watch we're discussing this law, just to do it all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49067	Thank you. Now two notices. First, one of my colleagues, Frani Matusic, who keeps signaling to me that I should give him the right to replicate, but a representative can replicate one club once. You're already replicating this HNS club and I can't give you a chance to replicate twice. If you have a problem with that, consult the Rules of Procedure. Second notice. ... A business remark, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49068	The representative can respond to the presentation only once, it is true, but I reported to my colleague Coleman the same line as I reported the replica of my colleague Martincevic's presentation. ... That's not settled with the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The practice so far has been that each representative can be replicated at the presentation. ... It's legal... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The 123rd article does not refer to the fact that a club of representatives who has two or three proposings, or on behalf of the club, can not afford a replica, but only one of those three exhibitions. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49069	On the contrary to what you're saying, the practice has always been that one representative has the right to only one replica of one club, regardless of whether a representative of that club or five representatives spoke on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49070	Listen, you'd better give yourself a word, I'll call you back in five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49071	And if you have any problems with my explanation, you can contact the Constitution Committee. ... If you do not contact the Constitutional Committee, then it means that the Rules of Procedure have been misused. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If you are convinced that you are right, please contact the Constitutional Committee. That's one notice. The second notice is to all those who publicly declare us unemployed, that we worked 11 hours in public today. I don't know how many they worked. ... We've been working 11 hours today, so we're gonna stop now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll continue this debate tomorrow at 9.30. Thank you very much. Session adjourned at 20.23 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49072	Good morning, esteemed fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs. We continue our work at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. It is on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Theatres, with the Final Proposal of the Law. We started a debate last night by representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament. It is now up to HDSSB's club and respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49073	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. We talked about this law last night, and we broke up the session. But sometimes it is better to sleep over and think again about your attitudes and opinions because sometimes there may be changes. However, in this law, the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Theatres does not have much of a dilemma about what is important and what is irrelevant. It is important to stress at the beginning that Croatian National Theatres, primarily the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb and other theatres in both Split and Rijeka and Osijek, and how this law proposes that the future Croatian National Theatre and in Varazdin turn into a kind of political structure in every sense. Unfortunately, we think that the main issue of this urgency is the procedure for amending this law, the conflict between the mayor of Zagreb, Mr Bandic, and the current minister of culture of the government of the Republic of Croatia. And there's no dilemma. So it is a kind of game where in this case the stronger one has won, and the stronger is the Croatian Parliament, the majority held by SDP with its partners compared to the City of Zagreb and the City of Zagreb Assembly. What's not good is that in some sense, we don't deserve culture, there's not enough money. The situation is economically difficult. 370,000 and more unemployed in Croatia from day to day. But that nation that doesn't have a culture has no national identity either, so this shouldn't be a topic of political bickering because when it's often called for consensus, if we can't find it in culture, and we can't find it in unculture, we can't find it in anything. We believe that this issue of art and theatres and Croatian cultural identity should in general be a question of national interest and a question in which all policy options should be negotiated in one cultural way. The victory of Milan Bandic in Zagreb, which is unlikely for the government of the Republic of Croatia and the SDP, has led to the urgency of the construction of this law. Because this law solves absolutely nothing, but creates new problems and not only in the City of Zagreb, but the next case will be Osijek, and I will explain why. The issue of Rijeka and perhaps Split will be opened. As far as HNK in Varazdin is concerned, it is the same question when we should, and we will need to discuss the new regional division of the Republic of Croatia, the number of municipalities and cities, and then whatever political option was in power, and many mayors and mayors here in the Parliament, it will be a war because everyone loves their end, their home, their municipality, their village, and then respecting the views of fellow Members Martincevic I will not talk about it. I leave this to fate and leave the ruling of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and without respecting the importance of the Croatian Croatian National Guard in Varazdin, but also Virovitice for what Mr Djakic said, as well as Dubrovnik for what he said to his colleague Matušić. These are issues to be respected, but having some kind of picture of Croatia now while somehow money still exists in local budgets what will happen when it does not, but not exactly how things are now in Croatia will be good. These are one sensitive question just as I said we will see which mayor and mayor and how they will be asked when a new picture is created, and it will certainly be created around municipalities and cities. Those are sensitive questions. It's more heart-thinking than you're thinking with certain specific things, and that's, say, the possibility that it really works. What we need in Croatia is we cannot agree here, it is that on some issues if two can't agree and one is arguing with itself here primarily the suffering of culture but also employees in this case due to urgency and problems in Zagreb, employees of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb, because their salary for October is questionable, and there will be a question of the salaries of employees and all artists and ensembles who work in other theatres. This law does not address issues that should be addressed, let's just say the issues of the benefits of the work, the issues of the work of ballet and opera artists, given their physical endurance for years, cannot work and be, therefore, in the same physical condition that they would be absolutely in the same shape in the year or in the 10 years of their work. The issue of auditions, employment and the involvement of artists in other theatres outside of their homes is not resolved when conflict of interest is possible because these issues are not resolved by this bill. The issue of expanding organisational forms through which theatre activities should be carried out is not addressed either. Neither the issue of the control system is resolved nor the question of sanctions for possible violations of the law is resolved. And what we can conclude, and given the speed of this process, does absolutely nothing solve this law, but solves one policy of the situation that happened in a way that the minister will decide the last. Otherwise, we've seen these days that laws have been passed on various occasions. I wouldn't say it again because it's already gotten a little tiring and boring, but no law should be passed for anyone by name and last name. The quality of the work of HNK in Zagreb needs to be decided primarily by the profession, should be decided by those who evaluate its programme of work, as well as by the work programmes of all those institutes of Croatian national theatres in the Republic of Croatia that offer their programme. That's the last word we should say to the experts. Therefore, this proposal relating to the composition of theatre councils does not diminish the importance of other employees and employees from port to firemen, to organisational and other staff helping artists and this part of art in theatres, we believe that theatre councils are an advisory body to be engaged in the profession and art. And other employees all rights in accordance with other positive legal regulations and the Labour Act should be protected through working councils through their union organisations because none of us can be an expert on the area for which it is not. I can't be a doctor because I'm not a doctor, but I could say something about the law, and I can't talk about this profession. That's what those who deal with it should do. And that's why we don't think it's a good idea for this expansion, that employees' representatives will join the Theatre Council. This should be resolved in another way and there is a form of legal that regulates and can better fix and do so. Other issues under this law differed since 13 September from this one since 27 May 2013, as it is already seen in advance that similar situations will occur, unfortunately political ones, as theatres were mostly owned by cities, any counties, in this case by the City of Zagreb and the State. As regards the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek, which also owned the city of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County, the HDSSB club proposed two amendments by reading this bill. Our first amendment refers to Article 32, where we propose that this supplement, which exists in the first draft of the law, is adopted by the Statute on the consent of the founders, i.e. the founder with the majority stake, on the proposal of the intendant or director. That's what we think is right. The Statute is a basic act of the HNK and should remain that way. But this second, we suggest that this item be separated and that, on the second item on the proposal of theincidents, other general acts of theatres, or theatre families, be adopted. And why is it that on the proposal of the Indentator, considering that this is not just about some vague formulation of what an intensifier can or should do in his business, but given that the statute requires the consent of the Founder or the majority owner. If it is requested for general acts and questions concerning theatre groups and questions concerning the ensemble and other general administrative and legal issues decided under the old law by the applicant that the situation would be resolved if, for example, in the city of Osijek, there were two founders and co-owners, the city of Osijek, the City Council, the county, or the County Assembly. How the theatre will function if the City Council or the County Assembly depends on the date of the meeting can agree that more than 3 months, so up to 3 months the city councils and the county assembly are called together. What happens if a general act that does not, does not have the status of the statutes is questionable so that there is a solution in the congregations and councils, how will the theatre function normally? We believe, we do not believe that it was the proposer's intention to stop the operation and work of the theatre in that part, but we suggest that this amendment be accepted and that it was simply as it was under the rules so far because it worked. We say the statutes are fine, but this is something else to think about. Secondly, in the proposal of 27 May of this year, there was a good formulation in the transitional and final provisions when the law came into force, so by publishing in the National Journal, and in this final draft of the law, you suggest that all the procedures that have started under the provisions of the current Law on Theatres continue under this new law. We don't think that's good. Retroactive law enforcement because some procedures have already begun. He started a competition for selecting Croatia's National Theatre in Osijek. So another political problem opens up. Given the ownership of the theatre, given the city of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County, and I think the resolution ministry knows very well what is going on in Osijek and what is the structure of the government in the City Council of Osijek. If eight parties were left and right all together, there is no more left which is right, it was only an interest to bring the HDSSB down to power in Osijek and to lose that city as a party. What is a legitimate right politically, but in this case it will happen that there will be a new crisis, and this is the HNK crisis in Osijek where the procedure under the law will continue if the other conditions were valid under the existing law? And what law did we bring to be applied retroactively to such cases for the initiation of proceedings or other provisions under existing laws? That's not possible. The competition will have to be annulled, followed by new rules, caused by a new crisis at another National Theatre in Osijek, that is Osijek. And the same will happen in the river. So, we're already knowingly going to cause new crises in theatres, in this case, it's just now I'm talking about the city of Osijek and another case is going to happen. Because you should read what experts who do so and who follow the work of the theatre say. We propose an amendment to start the proceedings under the provisions of the Law on Theatre to end under the provisions of the current law currently in force. This will avoid the situation of not questioning the functioning and culture of the city of Osijek but also of employees who do not know who will sign their salaries or who will take care of the fate of the HNK. What you should really forget by not having any bad intentions about the situations that have happened should simply be understood that one quality dialogue, that a normal discussion between a resolution minister and other HNKs in the Republic of Croatia should be at one higher level respecting the political right of each party that is a member of the ruling coalition to think about their views and their wishes whatever it wants here is about the fate of culture in the Republic and the fate of many employees and artists and workers in theatres who suffer from politics on their backs what they should not suffer. We therefore propose to the Government that our amendments be accepted. In that case, we can discuss this case in order to support the law. If that is not the case, let the fate of the Croatian Croatian CNK and culture generally continue on one political structure in every sense of the word and then to some new occasion and some new discussions may be able to discuss it differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49074	Thank you, Your Honor. We've got some replicas of course on your exposure, so we'll go in order. The first replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49075	Dear counterpart Salapic, on one of your claims that I fully agree with, which is in politics, it is certainly only that nothing is certain, so it was in Zagreb why the law has not been passed for so long why changes and additions to the theatre law have not been passed so long, why the situation in HNK has not been resolved that concerns. Because SDP thought he'd get the mayor, then we'll make a deal then we'll iron it all out, it'll all be the way we want it to be. But Bandic crushed all their accounts. And now imagine a partner who is almost half because 51, 49 who pays the city which pays 50% means half 49% now needs to talk to him, so it is impossible to reach an agreement with Bandic, it is impossible to talk. But so far, a deal has been reached with Bandic. Does Kukuriku want a coalition dialogue at all? According to everything we've heard, and from the Prime Minister's reports that the other day we see that there is no, in fact, farce when they say let's talk because there's no conversation, it's monologues. And even the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is so made that the monologue is the part where the main people of the state are sitting here in the Parliament. So this is actually pretending and unfortunately one law that we should talk seriously about as someone said yesterday to the circus.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49076	Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49077	Comrade Vuksic, that is so unfortunately in our country. What I said at the beginning is that there is no consensus and dialogue in these important national topics in Croatia. This is an important national topic, the absence is the total lack of too much cultural policy because no one can avenge Bandic because he won the election. It is his legitimate right and it was chosen by the citizens and voters of the city of Zagreb. Let's say in one France, it's normal for a minister or minister to appoint an intensifier, but one mayor doesn't think of it as giving no funds or, as national pride, a high-level theatre house interferes with what the minister has decided. And that's not how it works with us. We can't agree on anything because one's arguing with one. There's no two of them sitting down to discuss what's important to the national interest because it all comes down to revenge to us, you've done this to me now, and I'm going to give this back to you. And it's pure politics without a single shred of art and culture. Why is it an emergency procedure? Why wasn't there a public debate about it? It was in that first part of the month from January to February. Why couldn't the profession and the art say their own? Why is it the last punch of politics? but not all politicians and even in the Ministry of Culture who all work there are professional enough to decide on such issues. And unfortunately, when all this is naked there are the fates of theatre employees, artists, and suffers culture in both the city of Zagreb and Croatia. And all that goes on, whatever you say to me, everyone will say their own words, it will come down to bickering, and fate is clear. There's no dialogue, there's no consensus, and it's all one conflict that doesn't lead to anything. Until this changes in policy chapters first of all, this is a ministry that should deal with cultural matters such as tourism, the judiciary of the judiciary, and we are all capable of everything. Even some ministers said after the election we can be members of the government no matter which resort, I can do anything. Well, that's not exactly the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49078	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49079	Thank you, Mr. President. You mentioned the status of the national theatre and supported my amendment to assign the status of the national theatre to Dubrovnik Theatre. However, I would probably not have presented this proposal in this debate if the proposal had not gone at the same time and granted the status of the National Theatre to the Varazdin Theatre, which I believe is also in order to get it. But unfortunately, we don't have any criteria about it. Yesterday, it was mentioned that Varazdin had initiated the procedure. So I would ask the Deputy Minister from this place today to explain to us which procedure, where it was published, was it published in the National Journal, when it was published, when it was brought, who brought it, to tell us exactly what the procedure is and whether it contains criteria for how the status of the national theatre is obtained. The second question of the overall solution that you have highlighted is the whole problem. It is clear that this law does not intend to regulate this area because not the listening stakeholders that are important in the process of passing this law have not listened to their thinking, no artistic ensemble or their representatives, nor unions have been obeyed. So it is not that this law is intended to regulate this area, which is a real need but is indeed a client-leading law implemented by the Minister of the HNS because it wants to set up a frame which it wants to set up without agreement with the Mayor of Zagreb regardless of who he was. And that the law is enforceable, not inconclusive, as the ministry's representatives claim, is evidence of both former councils and ministries and mayors. How could a HDZ culture minister agree with Mayor Bandic and there was no problem with the appointment of intensities? So the law is enforceable. And the last thing that matters is a member of the theatre council. Yesterday we heard a claim that a member of the theatre council must be from other ranks. He doesn't have to, so... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49080	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49081	Thank you, Mr. President. I supported you by the same criteria as I supported Varazdin. So I respect that criterion. There are no criteria, no demeaning value of art and HNK in Varazdin and with you in Dubrovnik but also in Virovitica as we have heard, there will still be Sibenik. It's something that needs to be left to the point. But we're going to do what's supposed to happen in Varazdin in 2015, 715 thousand kuna. Who's gonna cover that difference so the theater can work? Except for this art and cultural part there is financial. Without finance, there is no quality programme nor one agenda, regardless of which policy options he was not able to function unless he had enough resources. That's the question that's being raised. I said, I compared it to municipalities and cities. It's like touching a bead's nest. Everyone loves their own, and that's where he thinks with his heart but not with concrete things that should be followed by culture. Unfortunately, the real purpose of this law, I said, is not to resolve the benefits of a working internship, the fate of a ballet artist is not to be solved, the issue of conflict of interest is not to be resolved, the involvement of artists outside the theatre. There needs a new, completely new, over-the-counter law on theatres that will have a quality public debate involving the profession, culture and art, and in this whole series we need a new law on culture that will unite all together into one. That we finally know where our culture is going because it's an important part, like I said to our national identity. There should be no one to show who is stronger, who is weaker, but simply who is smarter and who is rightly painting and real eyes looking at Croatia's cultural future. It's the only thing. And what Bandic won the election is his success and it should not be punished by anyone, it is a decision and the will of the electoral body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49082	Dear Representative Jasen Mesic and his replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49083	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleague. When he escalates the crisis of Osijek, we'll change the law by... So we'll figure it out, so that's how we've been doing it in the culture sector lately. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When the problem becomes nice we go to the emergency changes and additions, we vote most of the votes and the problem solved we move on. So don't worry, it'll come on the agenda. You don't have to run before the ore. As for the conflict between the city and the ministry. You know, my colleague, you skipped a year and a half. Four competitions were launched, two ended with the opinion of a theatre council consisting of two ministry representatives, two representatives of the city, and three members of the theatre council, who are representatives of the ensemble, cast a decisive vote. Each time they made a proposal that the minister disagreed with. In a year and a half that takes this procedure. Thus, the profession made a proposal that the ministry probably had a different opinion refused. The problem of the city and the ministry was at the end of the story when the situation led to heat. So four contests, launched, two completed with that proposal. Now, if it's known in advance in the ministry that they won't support what they suggest or give the opinion of the theatre council, don't come after me for a word, then what's the competition going to do? So be it in France, so write it in the law, be it in France as you call it, although I think it's incomparable things because tradition is completely different And name whoever you want, and bye-bye, so we don't worry about it anymore. [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49084	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49085	Thank you, Mr. President. We don't need the proposal or the theatre council, we don't need the opinion of the profession, we don't need the opinion of art, and God forbid we compare ourselves to models in France once in Croatia, so I think we'd have something to learn at least in this legislative sense. There's a lot to learn. Unfortunately, I think that this is a matter of clean personal animosity and personal disrespect for the name and last name of the person who is currently the principle of the HNK in Zagreb. And what I said and for months we've been passing laws by name and last name. The parliament turned into a law-making service was it Perkovic, whether it was... Whether that's what we had before, or we threw someone out because he thought differently from someone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, pure political torture and personal interest, unfortunately, not public interest. I'm sure the Proposer can't explain this structure of the bill that this law, when it comes into force, continues to take action under the new law. It is known in advance that there will be a crisis in Osijek and only one thing because there is a mayor in Osijek who has been "independenced" and I hope President of the Parliament that we will change these laws sometime because there can be someone independent who is supported by the parties of SDP, HNS, HSU. Not disrespecting parties and HDZ in Osijek. According to us, it's not normal for me. So this is about pure political conflict and we know in advance that the City Council of Osijek, given the composition of the coalition, the unnatural coalition of the parties left and right, HDZ and SDP and the HNS and HSU and all others, will not support the proposal that the tender that has been launched and the candidate who appeared will pass in the competition. And in advance we have a crisis and you know it knowingly and what structure it is that we will apply retroactively. That really needs to be explained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49086	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49087	Thank you very much. You said your colleague Salapic had no money. Money's never enough. But a systematic analysis would establish that money is spent irrationally, unequally and unfairly within individual sectors and even within the sector and even within the institution itself. But there's no such analysis. For example, for a single agency of state budget states, for an agency that regulates something, it knows neither what spends more than the total Croatian National Theatre annually. Which can work with 10 million kunas and not with 100 as much as it can. And within the theater itself, it would be interesting to see the cost structure. What it's spent on, who it's engaged to. I was recently at the Croatian National Theatre where an international director was hired to whom the audience eventually whistled, was paid dearly. What actors are acting, who are engaged in HNK... and they haven't done a single one in a year, maybe not a single play, but at the same time they've recorded six soap operas out there, they're engaged in square singers, they're engaged in hostels and models, they're hired by foreign actors and actresses, and our drama artists are unemployed and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] More and more... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Schooling. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the point of the problem. It's not a problem that money doesn't have money, it's just that money is unbalanced and spent. How much of the cost structure is only in HNK on propaganda, how much on directors, how much on auxiliary staff, and how much on drama artists. No one has ever calculated or published that publicly. Then it would be seen what is in a particular theatre and how money is spent and not to be allowed in Croatia by drama artists who have invested a lot in themselves and in society and cannot get a job. However, it is not a problem for this government at all, nor are they setting it up, the problem is only an indent, and that is the least of the problems in Croatian theatres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49088	It's been a while, Your Honor. Replica response, respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49089	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Maric, it's not just about ingenuity, there's more problems. I said that this law does not solve key problems, and what you said would fall under the control of the law, in the control of conflicts of interest, in the control of spending money and in the control of elections, because the quality of the art program is assessed by every intensifier who accepts it as an indent. His program must also have a financial structure of what he offers. And as it happens in the meantime, whether these funds are spent on purpose or not, it's still another story that should go into the control segment, but also in the judiciary segment and those who need to control whether someone was doing something that didn't comply with the law. This is also the obligation of not only the state but also the majority owners, since the structure of the theatre in Croatia is not all under state control, but here are the city of Osijek half the city, half the county and here I fully agree with you. You mentioned agencies. If we were to share in the Assembly today a questionnaire to each of us write ten agencies in Croatia, and there are many more, what does, who runs it and what does it serve, I think we'd all get insufficient because we didn't know. And there is a great amount of money being spent, and that is something that should go into the control segment of the one that such agencies propose, which is in this case the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Some former structures have said that there is everything and everything, that this will change, that some agencies will no longer exist, but nothing has changed, new offices, new committees, new structures have arisen. That's all the expense. In this case, to return to culture, this is specifically about the relationship between Milan Bandic and the culture minister, and everything else is irrelevant. Both artists and ensembles and ballets and fate and costs, this is an obvious political conflict and showing muscle who is stronger and who can do more and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49090	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49091	Dear Representative Salapic, I am very pleased that you have seen my heart and zeal in the debate over the status of the Croatian National Theatre in Varazdin, but this legislative proposal does not come from the heart but comes from clear, indisputable and firm arguments. Namely, the Croatian National Theatre in Varazdin has met absolutely all the criteria in both the organisation and the human and the professional and artistic terms, and the specific and additional criteria, namely the principle which will certainly be met by the vote of this law is the principle of territorial equality and regional representation because we are in fact the only region of half a million inhabitants who did not have their own national theatre. We have all the conditions, we've met them long ago, and by this law, we're actually just acknowledging the real situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49092	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49093	Dear colleague Martincevic, I listened to you last night and your opening presentation that spoke about the history of the Croatian National Theatre in the future in Varazdin. I said that you were speaking with your heart because it's okay and we can very easily agree, you're nice to me, support our amendments and prevent the HNK crisis in Osijek, and we'll be able to take into account all your emotions, your profession, everything you said about your end to support what you suggested. Then we found a consensus which is very cultural and very fair, there is no evil intention whatsoever. We agreed that in Croatia culture is important the fate of theatre, the fate of artists, the fate of our citizens, and we put politics aside. If we can agree on that, it's the most honest thing, we support both of us, and every honor to you and every honor of politics, in this case, in terms of culture. Here, if it's fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49094	Thank you, too. But there's more replicas, so it's up to the respected representative Damir Cain and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49095	With most of your courts, Mr. Salapic is absolutely in agreement and I agree with that sentence where you said the law is written for certain persons, but it is written for certain well-known cities, so in this explanation I literally quote, "It is determined that the Croatian National Theatre in Varazdin gets the status of national theatre.". And as Mr. Matušić, I have nothing against Varazdin, however, I am absolutely sure that Varazdin should be included in that national theatre, but I also suggest that amendments and those representatives be adopted, for example. They also demand that Dubrovnik, Zadar, Sibenik rise to a level of national theatre. If Varazdin can be national theatres then I guess it can also be Dubrovnik, higher history, contributing to national heritage, but it can also be Sibenik, it can be Zadar and certainly Pula, and certainly Pula. Yeah, the accent in my act is right on Pula. I've got a feeling it's a good idea to be sitting here with Varazdin. What makes Pula less important than one Varazdin? Why is Istria or Istrian County less important than one Varazdin County, Dubrovnik, for example, from Varazdin? And I pray that in that part, not you, Mr. Salapic, but the legislators of this law, you simply come out to meet more or less all MPs, that no one is privileged, but that no one is even discriminated against.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49096	Replica response, respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49097	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Cain, in order not to be misunderstood, when I was talking about the consensus, I thought I needed a consensus when it comes to culture, the future, the national identity of cultural Croatia. What I said in my debate, without that identity, there's no statehood, there's no nation. I made a joke with my colleague Martincevic in this part of the debate, so someone doesn't think it's about any trade, any outwitting about it. I need you to sit down for real. When I said the minister could conduct a dialogue with HNK, i.e. with the mayor of Zagreb Bandic. It's a consensus for culture. If politics interferes, I have said under quotes for my colleague Matusic's debate since last night and my colleagues Djakic and your colleagues Martinovic compared it to municipalities and cities. So, the program of an HNK art is one story. Financial structure, the possibility of it really being feasible in the work is another story. And the third on the quality of theatre performances and performances will be decided by those who come to plays whether those theatres are empty or full, whether they accept and respect what is offered or not. The only real foundation, the real choice of intensities should be art and culture outside, and all that goes on when it comes to consensus is not what you're going to do to me, I'm going to tell you, but that the culture's resistor is what should be culture's portfolio, regardless of what a single minister personally thinks about the quality of someone. Because more and more people in a professional body can better assess the quality and work of individuals than someone’s personal animosity. If someone doesn't like each other personally, well, we don't like everyone and everything, but it's not, that thing falls into one personal domain, and that professional, artistic one has to evaluate the profession. I have spoken in this direction without demeaning the demands and attitudes of any clubs and colleagues here in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49098	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49099	Dear counterpart Salapic, you have, in fact, introduced a confusion in your presentation by claiming that by adopting these amendments and additions, the procedures and the open crisis will be interrupted in the selection process of directors, i.e. the institutes in Osijek and Rijeka. In fact, this law regulates the choice of directors, i.e. institutes and other theatres, but the amendments and additions of this law are not touched at all and there are no amendments. So, the spirit of the law is always to talk about those processes that change. With these amendments and additions, only the selection process of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb is changed and in this sense the last provision of this amendment and supplementation applies only to this process. You can't repeat a procedure that hasn't changed at all with this law. It doesn't make any sense, not legal, not nomotechnic to interpret it that way. Therefore, there will be no crisis in either Osijek or Rijeka. The competent theatre council, as defined by their statutes, will complete its election according to the ongoing procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49100	Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49101	My colleague, you told me that I unnecessarily referred to Osijek in my debate, and I will tell you honestly that you have unnecessarily responded to my line. If that's how you say it, then why this urgency of procedure and why changing the law because of only one person? If that's what you said then we wouldn't wait four times to choose an HNK in Zagreb. We would not only change the law by emergency procedure because of one person, only because of the relations of Minister and Mayor Bandic. I was afraid in my debate that we would change this law because of Osijek in an emergency procedure without public debate, without deciding on the fate of artists, without the true story of culture in HNK, in all theatres in Croatia. I expressed my fear through my argument, and you unnecessarily contacted me because I know what I'm saying. I'm going to ask you in a month, two days' time what is the situation in Osijek, and I wouldn't be surprised if a new bill came in an emergency procedure to resolve some things by force, torture and in a way that doesn't correspond to cultural behavior here in Croatia. And so I know what you need to tell me. We don't think about these things the same, but be sure well-meaning will be a problem in Osijek, we'll talk about it soon and I'm 100% sure of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49102	Thank you, too. We've exhausted the replicas and answers to the replicas. We're going further into the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49103	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the Deputy Minister with an associate. Well, I can tell you that I've just been saddened by this debate since last night and today because everything we do here is turned into dust and ash, actually into politics. Even culture and art. Yesterday it was agreed here today that a clean political trade that was banned by law was repeated. You back us up, we'll let you know that all the participants in that store said there's no criteria. That's why it's a political trade because there's no criteria. When there is a criterion then there is no political trade, there are no criteria on how to determine, who deserves, which the theatre deserves to be national, which the theatre doesn't deserve to be national. There are no criteria, external criteria are known. One of the important criteria is that they have 3 ensembles and orchestras,... opera, drama and orchestra. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What does your colleagues and colleagues have in the Varazdin Theatre? There's talk here, there was talk of local patriotism yesterday, and it was heating up like that. I am the same from northwestern Croatia when it was spoken before and my colleague yesterday said he was tied to the theatre. The first performance I saw was at the Croatian National Theatre. The first criticisms I wrote as a theatre critic were for the National Theatre I think that was when August Cesarec was called in Varazdin and at the Summer Games on Young Theatre Days in the late 1970s and early 1980s led by George Pharo and the Lero Theatre in Dubrovnik. So, I love the Croatian National Theatre August Cesarec as I remember it in Varazdin, I know the situation as it is and yet I think the theatre in Varazdin by nothing, by no criteria deserves the status of the national theatre. Yesterday, even in one debate, the theatre deserves recognition. I remember those who deal with the theatre, and there are two colleagues who are immersed in the theatre, from SDP and HDZ, remember one beautiful man, Tom Durbesic, director of a special personality, a poet who when we founded Croatian Art Force and shared uniforms then came and told Vuksic to give me a uniform. I said you can't go to the battlefield, he said, but I guess I deserve a confession to walk the city in the uniform of the Croatian defender. So the acts were divided, so Ciro Blažević also said that he would like to have an act of some sort that he had an act because he would be proud of it. Without criteria, it was divided as now without criteria it wants to give status to theatres. The theaters are losing. I agree with Mr. Matusic if any theatre that exists deserves the status of the national theatre then it is Dubrovnik. We know what Dubrovnik gave, but if we go through those elements of opera, ballet, orchestra, drama, and then it's questionable. And certainly Dubrovnik should not speak the history of Dubrovnik, and we here do not give recognition for history but give status to theatres. Someone did, I think my colleague Maric said there was money in the theaters. I agree with him. There are actors who have not stopped for years, for decades and who receive salaries in theatres, who receive regular salaries. Because the directors say we don't need them, they're not the actors we need. They're part of the Ensemble, part of the Ensemble, and they're getting paid. The theaters are social coverage, don't fire them, where you're going to be 25 years in the theater, no director is going to share it. Has the Ministry of Culture proposed such a law to see, to solve the situation? No, I don't. It is true, this is legal violence only because of one man, or one woman, Mrs. Lederer, who has not been replaced, but has been proposed for V.D. So they wouldn't take it. I said yesterday, last night, but I'm going to repeat the HNK in recent years seems like it's been illegal. There's no big show, there's only big cases. But now I'm on Mrs. Lederer's side because everything seemed to be discredited and simply not even the Theatre Council to be put on the side. There's nothing wrong with it except writing in a future law that's going to be passed, I guess nobody suspects it's going to be voted, to bring down the HNK right now. They say if you pass the law, the HNK will collapse, they say it should collapse, we'll build an old, better, nicer one. Now I got it before I got into the mailbox of an e-mail where people recognized themselves in the sentence that they were colliding names that were scary to me for an intendant, they recognized people and I didn't even think about those people. If I had accidentally sent such an e-mail as a politician, one of the ministers was removed because of such an email, and I got it from people from HNK, a very unpleasant letter. I didn't even think about that person, I didn't even know she was the one for the indent, or it was because it was in the towers. So that's what's cooked up, it's really hot. Those who follow the theater know about the ancient theater, it was created in Greece, otherwise they celebrated the god Dionysus. They could've just played men. They often played women because there weren't enough men, but they played women secretly, and that's why it's assumed that those who read the history of the drama theater about the force of Adamics know that all these actors had a cover, a mask, a painted mask. There are masks here in the House but they're not painted, nobody's hiding, everyone's lobbying openly, and that's perfectly normal. They say there's no criteria, but we'll figure it out. By the number of national theatres we are, at least for something we are the first in the world. We are the first in the world by the number of national theatres compared to the number of inhabitants. We've got four of them. I remember the debate about culture when I was a young journalist in the late 1970s, in the early 1980s when just the HNK's intent proposed to join the opera of Osijek, Split, Zagreb and Rijeka because there is no such resources that Croatia could have 4 quality opera ensembles. To bring together the technique, to make something so that, ever since, it's been talking about rationalization. Because we got such a law on the table to see some kind of solution to how to solve the situation in theaters? We didn't win, we probably won't win. Let's just turn it off. We don't put out the fire, we spray it, we spray it a little bit, so we're just gonna be a little bit less than a big flame. First of all, there is no one here against the Varazdin Theatre, nor the Zagreb Theatre, those who deal with culture, who work in art, should scream to heaven, do not do it to theatres! It is said here that two ladies lie. These two ladies are doctors who have doctored in an area where we should bow down, the art we want to dirty, and we mustn't mess it up. The law suggests this, the city will give 49%, the state 51%, and if we don't agree then within 7 days we agree, why would I agree within 7 days when the law gives me that I don't need to agree, I don't have any sanctions, and then I'll decide for myself. Well, of course, I'm going to blow my accordion immediately and I'm going to decide who's going to be an HNK intent. Who were all the intensifiers and directors? Look out, Ranko Marinkovic was not a gentleman, from whom I learned a lot, he was never an intensifier, he was the director of the HNK drama, but they were directors of Marijan Matkovic, so they were intentions Josip Bach, so he was Mirko Christmas, so George Paro was also the director today who works very well in the theatre. So remember Stjepan Miletic, who must have turned into a grave when he heard what was said in the Parliament, and Julius Benešić was. What are we talking about today? Those were great authority. If today and today we had authority in the theatre, if we proposed authority today, let's say quite sure that Pero Kvrgić the great of the Croatian theatre would not be accepted and is in years when he can't. But if we were to suggest there are younger names, this first came to me with a name like that. Both Milan Bandic and the minister and all of us would agree and there would be no cry. No, but we want to put our listeners in, we want to decide with people who will listen and who will do what? Bad theater. Bad artists do bad theater. He's not politics. You don't vote there, you don't raise your hands there. Make the best director, the best actors, the best play, take Shakespeare's text and get a bad show because that chemistry didn't happen, it didn't happen. I was the assistant director of Kosti Spajic at a performance in Histrio, a decisive text, an excellent division, a disastrous performance, one of the worst in Histration. Well, even for a bad assistant, I agree. Therefore, what is being done today is not good to do because it is being done in culture. Like I said before, Mr. Bandic crushed the accounts. Mr Bandic, the mayor of Zagreb, was thought to be able to be made within the Kukuriku coalition. And there's the Zagrebers who chose him, and we know he's intrinsic, and I even think he's right this time because he wants to skip it. The local patriotism that happened yesterday was not good because it was excessive because it says those who won't vote for you don't vote for them, they're against you. We're not against, not the Varazdins, not the Zagrebers, not anyone else. We know when it comes to nationalism, so don't overdo it with local patriotism. I'd like that law withdrawn. He won't back down, I'm not a sucker, he won't back down, it'll vote no matter what happens. And to find a solution for Zagreb to sit down, to agree and to make the Theatre Law. But from this place I claim, and you deny me, one of the worst ministries of the Ministry of Culture has not passed any whole law, no solution has given. Only new and new crises are opening up. Tell me we talked about a media strategy last spring. So where is this media strategy? In a set of media laws. So where's that set of media laws? There's not a single one. For years, signals have been sent right from the theater, please make a theater law. There's no theater law. We all know the fact, we all know. Those who do culture know what's going on in the theater. However, there is no will, no idea, no knowledge likely, but then leave it to others, listen to the profession that should not always be right. Come on, you're passing this theater law that will regulate the situation in the theater. Don't just put out the fires. I'll continue in an individual debate later. The Theatre Councils. Theatre councils aren't administrative councils. Theatre law is a lex specialis not "Lex Perkovic" but is a lex specialis. In the Theatre Council, too, there should be experts in art. We have directors there to deal with finance. And the other thing as one of the ideas that should be thought about in the new theatre law is that the function of indents is divided and introduced, and that is for 30 years, 40 years, it's been said that the managing director at the national theatre introduces the function of an intendant who will deal with art because it was mostly so. Intentants engaged in art and had their own assistants who were involved in organization and finance. That's some sort of solution. This is all that is proposed, absolutely certain that it is not as good as it is not good that people who do not understand art sit in the Theatre Council. I repeat, these are not administrative councils, and many have called for wrong laws. As it says in soap opera, the sequel follows.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49104	Thank you very much. One debate and a set of replicas and responses to the replica. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49105	Representative Vuksic, I am truly sorry that this much bile and bitterness and underestimations that revolve around various e-mails have been conveyed to a parliamentary debate that should indeed be serious in my court. I'm not going to comment specifically on your underestimation of the Varazdin Theatre. I am yesterday all my debate, you were here, devoted exclusively to arguments, only positive explanations which are all reasons, very firm, very clear arguments why the Varazdin Theatre as I said had long deserved to be a national theatre. I'm so sorry you didn't hear any of that. What I really wanted to ask you is whose name are you speaking for? Is that 1.97% of the citizens of the city of Zagreb that you won in the elections as mayor because you certainly do not speak for Croatian Labourists. In fact, they have given strong and clear support from the city of Varazdin to this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49106	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49107	Look, I'm not a politician like you. I didn't underestimate the Varazdin Theatre with a single sentence because you are, which is why I called you a politician precisely because you're trying to trick me. Say, take a stenogram, where I said exactly the opposite I was talking about. And I even think that Mrs. Jakovljevic, who is now running the Varazdin Theatre, is a capable director of the Varazdin Theatre. But you didn't say the arguments by which the criteria of the Varazdin Theatre should become a national theatre, but yesterday you listed the history of the Varazdin Theatre which we know is history. Do I speak for all the Labourists? I didn't speak for everyone, on behalf of all the laborers, on behalf of the club. We don't have written texts and we don't read about what others write to us, but we're talking about what we think the six of us are competent in some area, most relevant, that doesn't mean that we're just always competent in that area and we're talking about it in the Parliament. And sometimes we disagree, but it's part of democracy. Any autocracy with us is very difficult to impose, which doesn't mean there's no attempt. But we're on our own. I was talking about arguments. I don't have a stomach. I just told you I'm sad, that's how it's discussed. The temperature is something else. A politician without passion is not a politician. And a politician should show passion both in his discussions and in his polemics. What you're setting me up with is certainly not true. My 2% in Zagreb... 2% of it is mine, I've withdrawn these conjectures unlike most politicians and resigned from all functions in my party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And even here you don't know the positive, because you're speaking as superficially as you were saying about the Varazdin Theatre.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49108	Thank you very much. A new replica and respected representative of the Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it is somewhat immoral to involve Croatian National Theatre Varazdin in this topic and it is not about the recognition of HNK Varazdin, we agreed last night. Talk about it pretty late. So let's go back to the metrics. I urge the deputy minister once more, because the minister is not here. Not yesterday, not today. The Minister has never had time to come to the Croatian Parliament and she has not attended here once before representatives in the Croatian Parliament to explain any law to us and I think we would have a lot of questions for her. I think it's unfair, and I'm going to repeat what I said last night, to send Mr. Sipish here as a conductor who has to conduct something and wasn't at rehearsals. I don't think that's fair to her associates either. So let's go back to what we're really interested in. And that's if it's an emergency procedure, then in the emergency procedure, let's just discuss an article relating to HNK Zagreb. I'm also wondering if the minister's conduct, disrespecting the law, has actually led the government to act illegally. Since she's not here, we have no one to ask. Therefore, I appeal that we finally get a complete document from the Ministry of Culture, after two years, almost two years of mandate, and we haven't had one whole document, not to remind myself that a cultural strategy has been announced, you mentioned a media strategy, and we only have good media personnel from a media strategy, you understand, of course, conditionalally, there will be time to talk about it too. So please let's separate HNK Varazdin from what they say we need to resolve urgently and that's HNK Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49110	Thank you, too. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49111	I agree, I don't know, I didn't realize from the context of whom you thought it was immoral to drag the Varazdin Theatre into these polemics. It is certainly the biggest mistake that the whole law has not been passed and that we did not get the whole law here, because then probably in that whole law there would be criteria. And then if we agree that these and these criteria, we can say that these criteria are bad in relation to European or world practice, but then at least we have criteria, and then we can say that according to these criteria, the theatre in Varazdin, the theatre in Dubrovnik, and I don't know the theatre in Virovitica, I say by heart meets those criteria voted by those criteria. When we pass the law, we'll vote it out. And automation can't, and when we set the criteria, it's about art, it's not about automation, it's about giving numbers, it's about getting status. It is likely that some discussions of expert bodies are needed to discuss whether or not some theatres satisfy their artistic criteria to obtain status. We, the numbers themselves don't mean much to art. I was just saying what needs to happen to make a show good. So... Therefore, the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb has existed for years, it has status, I speak in these recent years, the status of national theatre but my performances have not been at the level of national theatres. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is much more complex than this absolutely bad proposal that should be withdrawn. Or should the Minister come here and say, we'll pass a whole law then and then and vote yes with you, let's just solve the issue of the Croatian National Theatre's intent now, and I think that would be acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49112	Thank you. Thank you very much. Followed by a replica of the respected representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49113	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague agrees with you, and I already asked on behalf of the HDZ Club yesterday to discuss only the resolution of the HNK governance crisis in Zagreb and that other issues be resolved by one quality new law, as also requested by artists from the theatre house and specifically from HNK Zagreb. Namely, this management crisis is solely the result of the misaction of the culture minister and they have produced the crisis. The city of Zagreb has not produced a crisis, we point out that once again. So the law was enforceable, unfortunately, led to this crisis by the Ministry of Culture and his minister because she wanted to put on similar personnel. I also agree with you and I'm glad you supported my position yesterday, which is that if any theatre deserves national status then it's a Dubrovnik theater and it's absolutely true. Unfortunately, however, there are no criteria, you pointed out that in your debate and I pointed out on behalf of the club, there are no criteria. Yesterday, she mentioned counterpart Natalija Martincevic that Varazdin had launched the procedure. I now openly demand from the Deputy Minister, tell us where the procedure is published, whether there is a procedure and whether the criteria are implemented in this procedure. Tell it to the Croatian public, tell it to the artists, tell it to the artistic public. So give us these criteria, tell us what the criteria are, but let's talk openly about the problems that artists and art are unfortunately suffering at the moment. Unfortunately, it's a non-cultural law that in this way tries to enforce itself for the sole purpose of a single person. We can call it lex Leders or lex Bandić or I don't know what kind of lex in the end, lex Andrea Zlatar-Violić. Maybe that's best because she's the one who created this management crisis. The theatre council must have artists, members of the art ensemble because this is the law that solves these very issues, and it's not true, we consulted with lawyers, we don't need to comply with any other law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49114	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49115	Yes, fellow Matusic, when we talk about criteria, I don't know if you saw an explanation why the theatre in Varazdin will be declared a national theatre, he says, because the municipal or regional theatre would strengthen. They themselves admit to being a regional theatre but want national status. And no, look at the regions in Europe that have national status. And secondly, let's see our tradition of the Varazdin Theatre, it's a colleague quite right. After that, if this left-hand side is at all allowed to say, after World War II there was another cultural policy, now release those crimes and everything that happened and the dictatorial system but let's look back. Then the Varazdin theatre had more ensembles and then the Varazdin theatre and many other theatres, we know in Zadar, in Pula how strong the theatres were, and then from Zagreb, from the center of Zagreb the actors were sent to this regional city, they were sometimes called the provincial theatres that gave excellent performances. Now there was a celebration of the 140th anniversary of the building in Varazdin where an actor who was in the Varazdin theatre, this is Zvonimir Torjanac, spoke to me at a time when he was an actor in the Varazdin theatre as they were given, and we know from the history of theatres as they were given. There's no cultural policy today. The only thing that we agree on here is everyone in the Parliament and we reach a consensus that's inculture, in culture, in culture, in nothing else. That's where I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49116	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49117	Thank you very much. Comrade Vuksic, you said this law was passed because of an individual. This law is from several aspects absurd. I haven't seen a shorter proposal for a legal solution, and it's so vague and completely clear at the same time. What an absurd. He wants so much to wrap himself in uncertainty, and in the background it's clear. It's understandable to me that an individual is hypocritical, that he's dishonest, but the law that this much contains hypocrisy within him. There's only one who's in front of him, and that's the one where we put the reputation of the state in the mud because of that law. But this society normally puts individuals above the law, above the state's best interests. This is not the first example, the director of television is more important to us than public television, the director of the agency is more important to us than the needs of the agencies themselves, we care about the deal with Mayor Bandic more important than the theatre. I can't imagine that happening in Budapest, Vienna, this situation is unimaginable. And the very example of vagueness, whatever legal provision provides for an agreement, is not a legal provision. There is no legal provision by agreement, this one predicts because in the background is not an agreement but in the background is some other interest, in the background is disrespecting the agreement, building the possibility of not agreeing to be installed according to its wishes. Five or seven members of the theatre council may happen that Zagreb appoints five, and Varazdin seven. That's not even defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49118	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49119	I'm going to abuse a little bit, before I was asked whose name I'm talking about, I'm going to answer now, I'm talking for the sake of knowledge because I know something about it. I said the law is passed because of the individual, not literally, is brought here for the council, because what is now the role of the council is to explain what is now the role of the council. Why is it not respected when the council says something, he gave it to the artists, he gave it to the minister who, I think Mr Mesic mentioned the example of France, the tradition of France or Salapic, you two were semi-limising. We don't have that tradition, we don't have that political culture. Imagine if ministers could name everything themselves without the Parliament and all that, so that would be terrifying. It'd be scary. How much they started to fear the public because they know that there are more and more journalists who are invulnerable and who are going to publish it anyway, if not in those tycoon media, then they're going to go online, and the Internet can't stop anyone. So this, yes, should be admitted, I was competing in that game too. Mr. Bandic certainly won, and he should be respected now because the citizens have given him confidence. It's just proof that democracy isn't perfect, but it doesn't matter. Because that doesn't mean that the best always wins, but the ones who gain trust. It's like that everywhere, I mean, they're not always the best. Then you'll say Hitler won, too, because he's the best. He wasn't the best. Yeah, this is, no, I didn't even happen to be putting Bandic in any context. God forbid! Yeah, this law is actually one big nakarada.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49120	Thank you very much. A new replica and respected representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49121	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, I do not think that this is a plantation of local patriotism, but I believe that there must be regional houses, that regional coverage and territorial coverage of Croatia must exist but also a clear criterion. There are no clear criteria when it comes to sharing funds. There are national houses, and these criteria are different. It decides politics and therefore precisely local houses or regional houses that have their own history, tradition and numerous awards, for example, by looking at the National House in Osijek, which has won numerous awards, without almost obtaining the resources of the resolution ministry. Regional coverage must also exist in terms of national houses, but also funding national theatres. Today we feel a problem in Zagreb. Tomorrow there will be the same problem in Osijek, and I am sure Zagreb does not see Osijek well, and it is also not possible to make a quality decision on who will be an intensifier of the national house in Osijek from Zagreb. Therefore, these legal solutions are not good by emergency procedure, because culture breaks something over its knees, not that the decision is made by the theatre council and by people who know the situation well in the house I think are bad. But regionalism of regional houses with its history, tradition and coverage of the Croatian National Theatre and national theatres in the Republic of Croatia must exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49122	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49123	My dear colleague Bubalo, you didn't understand me. Who even said that regional houses shouldn't exist. You said one contradiction in your sentence. You said like this: "regional houses must exist and must be covered by national houses." That's what you said. Get a copy. I'm saying, wouldn't it be nice to say this is how it was done if the criteria were passed and the ministry had brought a cultural strategy or a culture strategy, which would have been more correct, and if it had said now we're going to go to Varazdin, we're going to strengthen the Varazdin Theatre to agree with the city of Varazdin. We're going to open more ensembles there, create conditions for us to have some ballet studio and have ballet shows. We will try in collaboration with the Croatian National Theatre to create an opera ensemble, so we will try other houses and Split, and we will see how we will do it. We're going to try an orchestra for baroque evenings, and then after the conditions come up, and then it's going to be a national theater, so we're going to do it in Osijek, we're going to strengthen the Osijek theater. We will try to make Osijek a better theatre, because as soon as Osijek is a better theatre, Zagreb theatre is better, more beautiful for all of us in Croatia. So no one's saying, don't think we think it's a simple bribery that someone said they should regionally not need regional theatres. I'm just saying that these are regional theaters that shouldn't be covered by a national theatre. I told you about the fact that 30, 40 years ago, it was thought about making a common opera ensemble, that a common ballet is performed when a show of ballet is performed, operas are terribly expensive and especially if you have foreign singers you don't have at the moment because they're too cold and can't sing, and that there are those who can take opera and ballet and play plays there. Then they wouldn't play 30 times a premiere show, or 30 replays, but they'd play 130 times. But we act like a drunk millionaire.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49124	Thank you very much. We've exhausted a list of representatives' clubs registered on this subject. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. It is up to the honourable representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a lot we could hear about this law both from club representatives and from other colleagues and colleagues. What's sad is that this debate in Parliament is the only real public debate about this theater, about this House Act. The bill that was sent to the Parliament in May over the summer was withdrawn. It was about him, so-called. consultation with the interested public on the Ministry's website where observations could be sent. That proposal has been withdrawn. It was changed and then sent to the Parliament for emergency procedure through the government. The government adopted him, sent him to Parliament for emergency procedures. There was no public debate on this law on this version. In that previous version, there was this possibility of making comments, suggestions, criticisms, suggestions online. When you print all that public debate from the Ministry's website, 90% of the people who are expert in theatre issues are negative. If that's how I wonder what cultural policy it is and what the ministry's position is so strong that it denies everything that's written in that debate. That's number one. Number two. Many colleagues here have said that there are no programming documents to which the potential new Law on Theatres should be attached, and the fact is that there are problems in the theatre. They can't all be solved by the Law of Theatre, some of them require packages of other laws, which, of course, could follow through with the existence of strategic documents. And thirdly, when we talk about decentralisation in culture, which I think is extremely important for Croatia, then I think the future public debate should discuss whether the minister should at all confirm the intensities of certain Croatians in Osijek, Split, etc. Is that even the way to look at it? But what's certainly important to culture is the existence of an agreement. Culture is certainly not a question of this government or past governments, but of decades of accumulated social development. Every law that contains an agreement makes participants of the agreement no matter how right or wrong they are in some segments, forces them to have a certain tolerance, understanding and common interest that is beyond their political views and personal thinking. And what else should colleagues and fellow cultures be? Is it possible that it was possible before the HDZ government and the HZD minister then it was Mr. Biskupić and the president of the SDP of the City of Zagreb who was mayor that they could rise from personal differences in their opinions and offer an intelligent agreement, and today it is not possible. Today, it's a colleague and colleague of mine called a legal vacuum. I think this is about training forces in the field of culture. I don't mean it just because of this law. I am sorry that my colleagues in Osijek did not mention the archive case in Osijek, the appointment of the director where the appointment fell in the Administrative Court. I'm sorry we didn't remember the appointments at Clovic's Courts at the Archaeological Museum of Vucedol and all those places where that's exactly what's going on. So you don't respect the opinion of the profession, you don't respect the question of a certain consensus and agreement, and of course you can't read any vision of cultural development. The Law on Theatres is otherwise considered to be one of the most complicated laws anywhere in Europe. It has been brought for years with the previous thorough public debate. The Law on Theatres, which was adopted on which the amendments and additions are now being proposed, were practically 4 years in debate and is not ideal yet. Is it possible now that we will return the Theatre Council as we could read on the website in the '80s in the time of self-management to help the theatre in its cultural development? Is it possible that we will end the obligation of the agreement, contribute to the fact that the Zagreb Theatre is truly national, that its programme and action represents all parts of Croatian society more conservative, more liberal, left-oriented, contemporaryly oriented, will we achieve what we have abolished the agreement? Or are we going to give one option to prevail? If the law had given the option that if we didn't make a deal with someone, it would have been a couple of days later that my last one would never have made a deal. What makes me agree? What's my motive? I can do whatever I want. It's not just that we have the law in an emergency procedure right now, it's another problem that this situation lasts for a year and a half. Where there is a burden, I am no one's lawyer and I have no idea to defend either the present in Zagreb or the mayor or anyone but this is the consequence of what happened over the years and a half. Imagine that a year and a half ago, before the press came out of favours for an intensifier or ingenuity to sit down at the table and say we expect the financial opportunities of such and such for the next four years, we want programming definitions such as that over the next 4 years, we go to the competition who meets these specifics and financial frameworks will be the intensifier. No, it wasn't done. Who's in charge and responsible for this situation? Well, of course, the Ministry of Culture and the responsible person at the Ministry of Culture. I allow every minister to have certain visions in cultural politics, I allow, absolutely legitimate. But it must not allow the largest cultural institution of over 500 employees to be here for the third week without a responsible person. That's scandalous! And before that, we had a year and a half to solve it, we didn't follow the recommendations and opinions of the Theatre Council, and then we're pushing emergency changes and additions into the Parliament to solve such a situation so that we can practically name that V.D. The person we want. The question is what will happen then to the heads of the Ensembles at the Theatre Council, not those people have changed, not then had to call a contest and set up their men as head of the Ensembles and choose the indent we want. It's a theater of absurdity! Where does that lead us and who do we benefit from? If these changes were open and complemented by the real problems that many colleagues and colleagues have been saying here, then definitely the HDZ club would have the same support to do so. I'm not saying it shouldn't have started before at the time of HDZ's term, where I'm lucky we were those opportunities, but if we don't do it now. This is what we've been going back 40 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49126	Thank you very much. We have reported several replicas in a row of the first replica and respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49127	Thank you, Mr. President. You mentioned that these amendments to the law were passed for legal vacuum. It seems to me that after this debate, as you said the first real public debate in the Croatian Parliament that lasts since yesterday afternoon, we can talk not about the legal vacuum but about the culture of vacuum but not in Croatia but in the Ministry of Culture. So it's a cultural vacuum at the Ministry of Culture. I will confirm that my thinking and one fact, namely the Minister of Culture has, unfortunately, brought the government into illegal action because the law stipulates that the government is resolving the agenda, but the proposal for a solution has not yet been addressed to the government. So the minister didn't send such a proposal to the government, she sent only a letter to the inidenticals to end her contract. That's all that's been directed. Why the government didn't resolve the identity is a question that's being asked. I think you should give the Minister an answer to that question. This is exclusively her responsibility,...produced by the CNS and thanks to which this law is before us today. But I agree with you completely, the law should have been prepared in a completely different way in agreement with all stakeholders and should have really prepared it to be a whole solution and to include a strategy regarding the national theatre to see what the criteria are. But I will point out once again, yesterday the deputy minister's representative said that this law needs to be brought into line with other laws and said the introduction of a fifth member who would be of the other employees of the theatre and the Theatre Council. That's not true, that's not true. We have consulted our lawyers since it is about lex specialis here it is not necessary because this law can now edit the composition of this Theatre Council. And include the artistic ensemble maximum in this Theatre Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49128	Thanks, buddy. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Jasan Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49129	Well, I agree with you guys most of the time. However, the prime minister and the Prime Minister cannot step away from their responsibility. It's not just the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. The prime minister can't say it's being handled in a ministry run by a fellow HNS member, it's not exactly the right. All ministries should sort of be his concern. More like the biggest public enterprise in culture. Imagine how the prime minister would react if something like that were to happen in any other public enterprise covered by other resolutions? Imagine in the economy. What would you say? I don't have anything to do with it, so here's the minister. What does that have to do with me? So where are we gonna come from? The Prime Minister hasn't called about it. So he's responsible for this, too. What is the problem is that in the short term, the highest number of real employees in HNK Zagreb, these 500 people, as the unions speak, are leading the theatre champions. In the long run, of course, culture will suffer entirely. That's what we've really made further problems with. I remember the debate in the Zagreb Assembly when colleagues and colleagues from the same party insisted that the Museum of Contemporary Art be only a city and not a state. I thought at the time that it was better both city and state and whoever could include having founding rights, that such a large institution would be placed as wide as possible, that it had the opportunity to obtain as much funds as possible. Look what's going on right now. Now the ministry has no right to say a word about a new leading person. Congratulations. A very long-term cultural policy and then and now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49130	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49131	Dear counterpart Mesic, you said when you spoke about the councils, that we would return at the time of self-government. I don't mind a self-management age like you, I don't have those complexes. I'd very much like to go back to that time when we're talking about the theater. At the time when Brecht was a very great critic of society, at the time when the theater of ITD was happening, at the time when Brecht was premiered in Zagreb, at the time Ionesco was performed in Zagreb, at the time when we were looking at Zagreb as an avant-garde in the theatre sense, at the time when great performances were happening in the HNK, at the time when the HNK was on tours, 300, 400 people went to the bus column, a special plane, at the time when the HNK with... was hosting in the United States when it was visiting in London, that was the time. Today it's a theater like I said before, like it's illegal, there's no big show, there's no blade. And like now, we live in the ideal time, so the theater doesn't have to be the one he's talking about. Shakespeare, when placed on stage, should concern us both today and here because the text is about it. The tick when it's set should concern us here and here. When it happens. Look at that comedy that last one, which had nothing to do with Krleža which happened in the Croatian National Theatre as some big avant-garde but was actually a shower theater.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49132	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49133	I believe my dear colleague that you have no complexes, and I must tell you for myself that I don't have any, and you obviously don't get me very well. That's what I was saying about the theater council and that's what you were saying. In the theatre council they should be represented, so artistic professions, something they would call the creative part of the theatre. About the time you're talking about, I have to admit that at the time, I've been doing more small-scene shows and the Puppet Theatre, so I can't possibly talk as much nostalgia as you do about that time, but suma suma sumarum is coming to the same, we come to the fact that this is even worse. That this is even worse. That's why I have complexes. I don't want to go back to the old days or what we concluded in the '80s that it wasn't in the theater. That you should remember better that... Then so locked from me, rather than moving forward. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in culture, I think it's the best way to make a deal. That's what they think, as well as the legal proposals that came out of the ministry three, four or five years ago. Which were brought by consensus in this House. So you can if you want to. You shouldn't hide from responsibility absolutely in any part of it. And as for the complex, I think the time will soon come when many colleagues and colleagues in this House will be sorry to support such legal proposals, and then we will talk about the complexes of who will, who will have them in that case.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49134	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, fellow Mesic, you spoke about the criteria, about a public debate that was under quotes only public and about the expert team of people who participated in this debate, who made their remarks, I did not see any praise among these remarks made to this law. It was clearly said by the dramatists and producers and directors of the theatre, especially the Zagreb theatres who have all been published, and among them by Darko Stazić as well as all others and the leaders, intentors, all who have made their remarks there is not a single commendation on this law only to make it clear that this law excludes the expert council, i.e. The theatre council no longer has its selection function. They made it clear in this law that this is humiliating and discriminatory and that this law does not bring any good, that there are no clear criteria or national status, which I claimed yesterday to support the Varazdin theatre to obtain such status, would not today. By checking everything, it doesn't have any adequate merit to gain national status. What's really said yesterday is false and it's not enough to have such a status because that's why it should get both viritative and Bosniak and especially Dubrovnik. You've taken the political criteria to make the status of the national glacial. And that's not good. That should certainly have been laid down as criteria in this law. The same way in this law should be clear criteria in obtaining and financial support. This is how it looks like that law of ours to resuscitate. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49136	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We're going to the next debate, the individual debate of the MPs. It's the vice president of the House, the Honorable representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So this law must not be accepted but must be accepted no later than a year ago. Otherwise, then it wouldn't have come to what happened. Not to the management crisis as spoken here in Zagreb's HNK, but to the fact that there is no administration. Cancelling is one ballet premiere because there is no one to sign the contract with the performers. I hear the principal... He buys props with his money because there's no one to sign the order. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such a situation has been going on for 26 days today. And that never happened. Since his apostolic Majesty, the emperor and King Francis Joseph I opened the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb, it was never without an intent or without the performer of the duty of the intensifier. Now let's see how that happened, this absurd situation. The existing law makes it very clear that the process of electing a new indemnity begins a year before the term of office of the current applicant expires. It's started by the theatre council by calling a public tender. The HNK Zagreb Theatre Council fulfilled all its obligations consciously, responsibly and in time. When the theatre council, when the candidates report, the theatre council selects one who is in their opinion the best candidate and directs it to the mayor and the minister of culture. The mayor of the city of Zagreb is wrong, and everyone who said this was about the conflict between the mayor of Zagreb and the minister, the mayor of Zagreb did not have his candidate, he said he accepted the recommendation of the theatre council. So this is where the minister didn't accept the proposal from the theatre council. And what should have been done, when it was seen a year ago that the minister did not accept the candidate who offered her the theatre council, which is undoubtedly the minister's right, so that we would not accidentally question it because neither did Minister Biskupić accept the proposal for an HNK Split intent, so it is the right of the minister. At that time, it could be seen that such a situation would occur indecisive and should have gone into amendments to the law, then. Like this, different, but the law that solves the situation here, that will prevent this interregnum from happening. If it hasn't already been done or if it's too late, why didn't it work out, why didn't the Ministry propose to the government a regulation with the legal force in the spring, in the summer. We would have solved the situation, we would have discussed this regulation here, adopted a new intensifier or V.D. The applicant could be selected. What are the reasons for this law now? Yesterday, a respected colleague, Coleman, said the reason that the existing law is inconclusive, but I don't understand it. That law was enforced. How something that can be carried out can be inconclusive, how something that is invisible can be seen, how something unimaginable can be imagined. It's a contradictio and an Adjective. This law was implemented also by implementing it is proof that it is enforceable. The existing law is complicated that counterpart Mesic says because he is seeking reconciliation. He's asking for a match. It's not the only situation in which a consensus is required. Carefully, the appointment of each ambassador requires the consent of the prime minister and president of the Republic, the prime minister suggests, the president signs accreditations. The pen's at the president's. There is no ambassador unless they agree. Consensus is possible and desirable. But the reason here is the second, the reason is the government's right to implement all its policies. Can we agree that each government has the right to implement its own policies? Well, I think we can, even cultural policy, and also human resources policy within cultural policy, and that, otherwise, would not be government. In many democratic countries, it is so that the government appoints an intensifier of a national house and there is nothing controversial about it. It is therefore the right of the minister not to accept the candidate the theatre council considers the best, can be the best for the theatre council, does not have to be the best for the minister. It is the right for the ministry and the government to implement their policies, but it is the ministry's obligation to allow the minister to carry out his ministerial will and to do so on time. So nothing happened here suddenly, it didn't snow for the Great Lady, it was known when the mandate of the former ingenuity expired. It was time to settle it in a legitimate way and avoid internal regnam. So let's find out the facts, ex-intendant Ana Lederer hasn't been removed, she's out of office, and no one can count on her being entitled to 3, 5, 7, 18 terms. When the mandate expires, the term of office has expired. We're all here for a term of office and we know what a mandate means. Therefore, this is not about any political shift as could be heard, it is about the normal end of the term of office. Secondly, it is the right of the Government to implement all its policies, it is the right of the Government to implement its cultural policy, it is the right of the Government to implement human resources in culture, and these are the reasons why this law should be adopted and no new or new should be invented. And Deputy Minister, I would also like to see a whole theatre law in the process of adopting important questions from the theatre, for example whether so many national theatres in Croatia are needed, what are the minimum conditions for a theatre to be declared national, whether there is a good concept of permanent ensembles everywhere, what is the way of financing, relations between the financing of cold drive and the programme at the theatre. Because what happens now, when funds are reduced, and even in the City of Zagreb, they are reduced by programmes. Salaries, electricity, water, it has to pay for the theater, and programs as much as it does. It would be good for the theatre law to determine the ratio between these funds and programming funds so that this would not happen, in order to protect the theatre activity. So one whole law would be welcome, which would be widely discussed, which would certainly be in the national interest and would solve some other issues, not only of human nature issues, because I think they are the least important here and that the model by which the government takes the right to appoint an intensifier, but also the responsibility for that appointment is a very logical solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49138	Thank you, too. We've got 7 replicas on your display, so we'll do it in a row. The first replica and respected representative Josip Boris. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49139	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Stazic, in your debate, you spoke exclusively of the rights of the minister and the right of the government. So you mentioned the Minister's right not to agree with the proposed candidate, you were talking about the government's right to implement its policy, but in no word did you mention the right of the mayor of the largest city in the Republic of Croatia and its 50 million or 50 million citizens of this Zagreb, to carry out their policy too. You've forgotten that right. And that's probably what this story is all about. And he has a right to say something about that candidate. And he said if I listened well to him recently on a show if it's the same lady we don't need a director, i.e. We have an intensifier. No, but this government says it's going on again. She doesn't care that artists not only them, musicians, athletes barely live, i.e. They barely make ends meet, which these social groups may not have, perhaps, here in this largest HNK, 500 secure incomes. We'll risk it all for one chair or one party's wishes to set one person in her favor. We don't have to worry about that. It's an important chair. That's exactly what it's been since the start of this government's mandate. So we always have rights without responsibility to this government, every right and here to put who we want and then to adapt the legal framework to do so but without responsibility. And whoever gives him 50 million kuna, we don't give him the right, i.e. He shouldn't even have any right. And then yesterday we have a different law where the state records 50 million kunas and says quite different behavior is valid in the case of Dubrovnik walls. That's the hypocrisy and inconsistency of politics, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49140	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49141	Now I don't know how I have to interpret it to you as an agent. When a law is passed, everyone is obliged to implement it, including the mayor of the City of Zagreb. That should be clear to one MP. What it's gonna look like in practice I don't know. Can the mayor of Zagreb disrespect this law and not pay HNK 40 million kuna? I don't know if it can, I don't know what the government's powers are to carry out over the city, and I don't know what the consequences can produce. Is that HDZ's recipe that laws only apply to some, and others don't, are you going to recommend that to him I don't know. That would be consistent with HDZ's behaviour so far. And that wouldn't be surprising.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49142	New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49143	Dear fellow Stazic, I fully agree with you that each government has the right to implement cultural policy and every other policy, and that is why it has won elections, so it has received the trust of most of the parliament. However, there is no right to endanger what the functioning of the system does not have the right to endanger the entire cultural policy which, since the world did not start from that government. What was happening in the Croatian National Theatre and you yourself said it didn't fall from the sky, that it wasn't that snow in the eighth month. For a year, it was known what was happening, but there was an event in Zagreb, probably or was acting. How come he didn't, I don't believe people can make a deal. I mean, I don't think that if the name I was saying were suggested, I was telling you who all the individuals were what you know because you're in the theater because you're being directed to events, so there's no solution. The thing is, the government has a right to do that, but there's no right to stand up and we won't consult with you. That's what our man's gonna do. That's what this is about. I'm not saying that in this case it is, but all the other cases that happen, all the other appointments lead to that conclusion or lead to suspicion. And I agree with you, you said you were waiting and you expected from the ministry, or the government a whole theatre law but not just a complete, enforceable theatre law. A law that will enable the solving of accumulated problems. A law that won't allow an actor to be in a theater for 20 years in a permanent working relationship, as it is said, and never once enters the scene. We have to solve this or declare it to theatres of art and social institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49144	Thank you very much. A new replica and a respected representative. And there's an answer. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49145	Now I really don't know how to answer your line when you're replicating me and telling me that you agree with me. Well, I agree with myself, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49146	A new replica and respected representative of the Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thought for a moment to hear the voice of reason, the voice of reason to hear for a moment on your part, since no one but you has come forward about this and we appreciate it. You were talking about what you were listening to yesterday, because you were presidencies, so you didn't get involved in the debate. And you agreed with what we said yesterday, which is that the law existed and that the law was enforceable and that it was true that the minister did not implement it. And I think it's all clear here. However, we did not answer the question of who would bear responsibility. Finally, it is also responsibility in the Government not only for human fates in the Croatian Croatian Republic in Zagreb, not only because tickets cannot be sold, for example, or to collect subscriptions, but also responsibility for a small thing that is about 100 million kuna at least. You were also talking about the identity of the term of office and that no one can count on three, six, or I don't know how many mandates. That's right. However, everyone has the right to be re-proposed and I hope that you agree with me. Therefore, I ask if anyone will take over for this situation, the situation of responsibility and why we do not have only this article at the time and why we are now forcing an emergency procedure to do something again that has been unarranged from the Ministry of Culture as well as any proposals so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49148	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49149	Just because some law is enforceable doesn't mean that it doesn't need to be changed, you're not logical here. Just 'cause he's real doesn't mean he's good. Second of all, you're saying who's going to take responsibility for executive power? The government of the country always assumes responsibility for the functioning of the state system. Even for the implementation of all laws, of course the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not answer the Government of the Republic of Hungary. That's understandable in itself. And third, you say anyone can be proposed. Anyone can be proposed, anyone can compete, that doesn't mean they have to be chosen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49150	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49151	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague, I'll be impressed by your debate, given that it seemed to me to be a burning fighter for a consensus on a small... It's snowed, and now it's kind of sticking out its head like that and I'd say or I wouldn't tell the real truth about what happened to the bill. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is evident that it is given into the hands of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who wanders in his decisions and in the making of laws as well as lex Perkovic, and is given the right to decide on their own if there is no agreement between the mayor and the minister that the Government will decide on who will be or who will ultimately be the HNK indictor. Today, you are not so proponent of a consensus that you should be as you were in your last term when we passed the Croatian Council of HRT laws, then you were much more eloquent about how we should together find a way to fill this body with people who will be of the profession, who will be of trust, who will look at the interests of the Croatian public and not just the narrow political interests. Those were your words you used back then. Why aren't they here today, I wonder? Do you really think the one-party system can function as long as you've plotted it? The same way you've introduced the Sanitation Councils into hospitals with no money, no reason, and now terror is being committed just as it will be in theatres. I don't think it's much like you and your actions in the past term.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49152	Replica response, Honored Vice President of the House Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49153	Look, I'm always a consensus, I'm always up for a deal where it can be reached, and if there's a party worth getting into such agreements with in the first place. But I am also because the electoral winner has the right to rule the country. Because otherwise I see that you would be in favour of SDP winning the election with coalition partners and you making the decisions. That'll have to wait a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49154	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49155	Your Honor, Mr. President, I do, although it is not my custom, but I must agree with part of your presentation. I agree that the government should also have the right to make decisions, but while the laws are in force, they are required to implement them. As long as the laws are in force, she's obliged to enforce them. If you said this law was enforceable, and that in a year and a half, whose responsibility was it? And in the end, you started your exposure that 20 and a few days there was no one to sign any paper. Whose responsibility is that? Whose responsibility is that? Who doesn't enforce the law? Should a government that has the right to change laws not implement the laws that exist? Or do we really have to come to court every time I don't know the European Commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49156	Replica response, Honored Vice President of the House Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49157	But I have to answer to you like my colleague Sunny Head. The government of a country is fully responsible for the implementation of all laws. Almost, what do we have to discuss further?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49158	New replica and respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49159	Thank you. Well, I may find it even more difficult to agree with you fellow Stazic, but this time I agree with a lot of what you said, you have actually confirmed those thesis that we have been talking about since yesterday, which is that the law is enforceable, that it should have been agreed and that it has not been agreed and that, in the end, it is the last thing that the government is responsible for this crisis that has arisen and because of the fact that the HNK in Zagreb cannot function normally. It is clear that this crisis has been caused by the ministry and that the government is also responsible if we go to the end. However, your support for this law that even you have not defended has given you the foundation of the fact that the government has the right to implement cultural policy. Even within that cultural policy and personnel. And that's right, and that's what we said yesterday. And I said that on behalf of the club yesterday. But the government has no right to endanger the functioning of an institution because it has not implemented the same law. So it's quite clear what it's all about. The other thing is, you were talking about the city of Zagreb being obliged to obey that law. I agree, however, the Government of the Republic of Croatia should not impose any obligations on the City of Zagreb that do not impose on other units of local self-government. If the City of Zagreb itself does not have a good will and in agreement with the Government does not accept such a commitment. And that's exactly what this is about. This amendment deposes the City of Zagreb, I am not going to talk about its mayor he represents him, but the City of Zagreb has the status of the county and these obligations are not imposed on other counties. So, only with the voluntary consent of the City of Zagreb did these ownership stakes occur. Therefore, you expect to expect after you have cleared the city of Zagreb, and at the same time you have disproved the Theatre Council to discuss and propose new proposals for the intensities, you expect the City of Zagreb to respect what the Government has imposed in some previous period as agreed with the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49160	Thank you very much. Replica response, Honored Vice President of the House Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49161	I don't understand why I have to prove what's obvious, and the government has to change the laws and make laws to implement some of its policies. What's so controversial about that? The government first has a cultural policy so within it and... politics. So what's the issue? So why attack a government that's going to solve a problem that's visible, the problem is evident and the government is going to solve it and they're going to solve it and now we need to attack the government. And if she hadn't proposed the law, then they would have attacked her for not proposing the law. Well, that's pure politics you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49162	Thank you very much. A new replica and respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49163	Mr. Stazic said election results in the country should be respected but elections results should be accepted and respected in cities as well. So as we can accept the fact that your coalition won in the state, you will have to accept the fact that you lost in the city of Zagreb and that the city of Zagreb has the mayor Bandic and the management of the holding and supervision of the HNK team. Therefore, the adoption of amendments to the laws practically in a day-to-day political context only because of the relationship of forces that are not at your disposal in the long term always harms the food for the longest two years when it comes to the change of power, then perhaps you and yourself will also be able to suck together and be dissatisfied with the fact that some new government will, if it is willing, appoint an HNK intensifier because in this daily political context, you have decided that you will now assume whether you have leveraged the authorities responsible for managing the HNK's identity. So this decision is a decision that goes to centralization. So are we aimed at decentralisation and decommissioning the state of some levers that are not necessary and teaching them to the local administration or are we continuing further centralization? Therefore, do not make decisions that are in the daily context. Do not change national laws because of the current interest and questions of one name or problems with one head of a city. This is long-term harmful to Croatian interests and interests of Croatian culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49164	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Vice President of the House Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49165	You call for compliance with the law of the Republic of Croatia. If you respected the laws of the Republic of Croatia, you'd be wearing another badge on a lapel.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49166	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas and the answers to the replica. We're moving on to an individual debate. The Honorable representative of Vishny Fortuna. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49167	Thank you very much, Your Honor. On the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Theatres with the Final Proposal, I make the following comments, Article 2 is amended as follows: Law on theatres that prescribes the procedure for the appointment and resolution of HNK in Zagreb. The current provision of Article 25.stavak 1 votes out "Intendanta HNK Zagreb appoints and resolves the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the joint proposal of the Minister of Culture and Mayor of Zagreb according to the previously obtained opinion of the Kazalish Council. The proposed amendment in the procedure of the appointment of HNK in Zagreb in the event that a joint proposal by the Minister of Culture and Mayor of the City of Zagreb is not established from the process of appointing the intensitaries excludes the city of Zagreb as its co-founder with 49% stakes, which is not in line with the ownership shares and obligations of the city of Zagreb in financing the work of the theatre. Also in the process of appointing intensifiers, the participation of the HNK Theatre Council in Zagreb is abolished, which is not in agreement with the procedure for the appointment of directors of other theatres and institutes designated on the proposal of the Theatre Council. The same observation also refers to the appointment and resolution of the HNK's office in Zagreb." Article 3 is amended as follows: The law also states that "The Theatre Council of Public Theatres and the Public Theatre Group has 5 or 7 members of which 3 and 5 are appointed by the representative body of the founders from the ranks of prominent artists and cultural workers who are not state officials of the office of the state administration or the competent office in the city of Zagreb for culture". The current applicable provision of Article 31(1) provides that the Theatre Council may also have 3 members. I don't think it's an adequately resolved composition of the HNK Theatre Council in Zagreb. Most of the 7 members are appointed founders. However, it is not prescribed how many members are appointed by each member. I believe that, given the ownership stake and obligations of the city of Zagreb in the financing of this theatre, the city of Zagreb should be represented with the same number of members of the Kazalis Council as the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, since 1 member is elected from the ranks of all employees and at least 1 member from the ranks of theatre artists should be kept in mind that in the composition of this body, all three artistic segments of this theatre should be represented, drama, opera, ballet, which is important for his work. I also note that by eliminating the possibility that the theatre council has 3 members as it had in the city of Zagreb, there are so far increasing the number of theatre councils in the public theatres of the city of Zagreb. Namely, all theatre councils in public theatres that founded the city of Zagreb except the Zagreb City Theatre of Comedy consisting of 5 members consisted of 3 members, so by increasing their number by 12 members, they will generate additional costs for their work. Article 32, which establishes the tasks of the theatre council and determines that the theatre council, on the proposal of the intensifier or the director of the adoption in the current provision, is confirmed by the annual programme of work and the development of the public theatre or public theatre group, which must comply with the basic programming and financial frameworks referred to in Article 27(3) of the Charter. A new task is adopted on a proposal from the intensifier or director. On a proposal from the applicant or director, the annual, accounting and new tasks shall be adopted. It shall monitor the implementation of the programme and its financial and personnel implementation, consider and adopt programme and financial reports of the intensifier, i.e. the Director. On a proposal from the Incident... The Director shall adopt the status with the consent of the founder, i.e. the founder with the majority share of the new tasks and other general acts of the theatre, i.e. the theatre family, shall carry out other tasks of a specific law, the instrument of establishment and the statute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is unclear here that a provision stipulates that the theatre council, on the proposal of the intensifier, brings status with the consent of the founder, i.e. the founder with the majority stake. Since he is the majority owner of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb, the Republic of Croatia is asking whether the city of Zagreb also gives consent to the statutes of the theatre, which, given the ownership stake in the city of Zagreb, is necessary in my opinion. In addition to the draft law, there is a report on the enforceable consultation with the interested public, carried out online during the period 31 January to 17 February 2013. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on Theatres to the Croatian Parliament on 24 May 2013. On September 6th, the government informed the president, now to withdraw the draft law from the procedure in order to submit a new amendment and supplementation to the Law on Theatres with the Final Bill of Law on September 12th. I ask the representatives of the Ministry of Culture here because a new bill of law has been implemented either by a new consultation with the interested public or simply by an old report relating to the withdrawn bill. And I would just say in whose name I speak, the individual debate is, I don't speak on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retirement Club, I speak on behalf of my fellow citizens who, by mail, fax and personally contacted me and I, as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, speak on behalf of the citizens of the city of Zagreb who contacted me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49168	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First, my colleague Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49169	Thank you. First fellow Members, I congratulate you for choosing ahead of the interests of the ruling coalition and your party to represent those who have given you confidence. Because they deserve it. And especially in this case where the Ministry of Culture is trying to implement one cultural violence through the law-making mechanism. And disenfranchise the city of Zagreb and disenfranchise the theatre council in the process of making a decision on the selection of the leader, the leading Croatian institution, the cultural institution of the Croatian National Theatre. I also think that this voice, similar to yours and to ours, should come from all those who represent the city of Zagreb in this House of the Croatian Parliament. Because here it is a question if the city of Zagreb is cleared and the theatre council without agreement with the city of Zagreb is not a violation of the fundamental rights stemming from the Law on Local, Regional Self-Government. Isn't that exactly a violent violation of the rights resulting from that? Therefore, you expect the city of Zagreb to finance with 49% of the Croatian National Theatre if the Ministry of Culture that should be a partner to that city is throwing it out of the same law and decision-making... Based on what can they expect? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that what the Ministry of Culture expects? Based on the fact that everyone's supposed to respect the laws. So they break it first because they're breaking the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. You cannot impose such an obligation on Zagreb alone. Then let the obligation be to all counties because the city of Zagreb has the status of the county. We must all be equal in front of the law. This violates the constitutional principle of equality before the law. Why would the city of Zagreb finance if it is excluded from the decision-making process? What a logic that is. It's the logic of HNS personnel policy and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49170	The answer to Mrs. Fortuna's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49171	Thank you very much. Here's everything you said I have nothing to add or take away but I forgot to say, thank you, the city of Zagreb is both city and county.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49172	Another replica and respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49173	Thank you very much. Mrs. Fortuna, your vote is probably the voice of 90% of all Croatian citizens and not only your voice but our vote should be the voice of most Croats. The voice of general good and common interest. And this law is neither good nor common interest but the interest of the most concentrated groups that can be placed in one group. This is a shootout. Culture and violence can't be together. A colleague Matušić talked about it. Culture and violence don't go together. This is an example of violence against culture. An example of uncultural dealings with individuals and an example of competition. You said the structure of the theatre council. Of course, the full article 3 is undefined, it is not clear which conditions must be met by which member of the theatre council, who as far as he suggests but generally goes that no matter how one person decides to react. What does a culture worker mean? Is the head of accounting at the Croatian National Theatre working in culture or not? Who's going to define that? Undefined. So anyone can be and no one can be who they don't want to be. It's the taste of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49174	The reply to the replica of Vishny Fortuna's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49175	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49176	So wait till I announce you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49177	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49178	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49179	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'd just look back on that part, so all you said was I said the same thing, but that part about the deal. The deal couldn't be reached I don't know the year and how many and in seven days it would have to be achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49180	And a third replica, a respected colleague of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49181	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You don't have to ask the representatives of the ministry if this proposal, which came through the emergency procedure, has been conducted by a debate with the interested public, has not been conducted, so there's no need for them to tell us anything at all, because what they've already told us, I think it's enough. I agree with you, this new proposal reduces the role of theatre councils that should actually be bearers of the profession. Similarly, it was not important that, for example, the Assembly Committee on Culture with a strained majority of 4:3 barely supported the proposal. Just as it did not matter when, for example, the Committee on Information did not support some bill proposals, he gave a negative opinion, yet they were adopted. However, speaking of this, the Croatian Actress Union, I believe you know, has already announced that it will seek the opinion of the Constitutional Court. However, there is another interesting point, intensifier of the Croatian National Theatre in Rijeka, she has made a series of remarks about the status of the National Theatre in Rijeka, about what we haven't talked much about today, and this is a question of an unfettered internship, this is a question of redistributing, for example, ballet artists, redistribution of people who can no longer, for these or those reasons, participate in full force to say so in the ensemble and that this draft law requires the applicant to redistribute such employees. But all of this sounds nice on paper, paper as you know it takes a lot, but what's actually a reality, and reality is what we've already said several times and I'm glad you don't agree with all this stuff that's been proposed, which is that the law that's in force simply isn't respected and implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49182	That's what ended the individual debate. We have two debates left on behalf of the clubs for five minutes. On behalf of the HDZ club, a respected colleague, Jasen Mesic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49183	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister with associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. I will no longer return to certain provisions of these amendments and the addition of the law, enough is said and we are clear to all who stand in what positions. We reported on behalf of the club to remind you of the situation regarding the laws that come to us from the Ministry of Culture. We first had amendments and additions to the Law on HRT where they assured us that the law was inadmissible, that the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board that were not filled, where they assured us that it would be much better when we had the law and when we chose the Chief Director by majority rather than consensus. The result is the Justice of the Committee for Conflict of Interest. So we were also discussing here about the Governing Council of HINA, and they told us again that the institution is not working, that everything needs to be changed urgently, and that we have the right to the Committee of Conflict of Interest. After these changes and additions and the alleged legal vacuum, will we have the right to the Committee for Conflict of Interest? Is culture really that place where we should have a firm political stance and not admit different opinions? Is it possible that at the time of the HDZ that you are so critical, when we passed the Law on HRT which rested at the consensus, when we passed the Law on Theatre which rested on the consensus on the issue of the Croatian Croatian Parliament, is it possible that there could then be a consensus, and now that you are in the majority that you can't. Or it is possible that in the mandates of HDZ ministers at the Ministry of Culture, it is possible that the current Minister Zlatar Violic was in the Council for the Book and contributed to the work of the council with his expertise in the area, is it possible that in the term of the HDZ, current Deputy Minister Mr. Šipus led one of the biggest festivals... music evenings. Is it possible that this could then be done, and now we need to change everything or no longer confirm them when their mandate expires? What kind of story are we talking about, and where did we come from? My colleagues and colleagues, we're not saying this because we don't know if you're going to vote for this or not, but we're talking about wanting to warn us where we're going. Culture must be beyond that, it's terribly dangerous what you're doing because, of course, it's going to result in a certain counterreaction in the future and it's not going to get us anywhere. Nowhere. Except for the Justice of the Committee for Conflict of Interest. There are no amendments and additions to the laws and changes we've made that haven't ended up on the Committee for Conflict of Interest, in Culture. And can you remember that in the decades that have passed, that the Administrative Court is tearing down our appointment at the State Archives in Osijek, that we have changes in Clovic's courts, the entire cultural public is criticizing that we have amendments to the Law on HRT where we have letters from the European Commission that say it's worse law than it was. We continue to argue that this is better because now here, everything that was as bad as some of you say in the HDZ mandate when a consensus was required, when the law forced the minister of HDZ and the president of the SDP of the City of Zagreb to agree and agree on the well-being of theatre. That was worse, and this is better. Where are we? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49184	They're following the replicas. The first one came from the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49185	I'm going to give you just one digression actually, and I'm going to take a photocopy from the dictionary, which means replica, because it's scratching some concepts. Like this, Ashil and Aristofan would certainly write that they can, because once it was Goran... came to a local community after 10 years after Krleža's death or something less. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He wrote that he would come with Krleža, he meant with a piece so they asked him, they all came dressed in ties and where's your Krleža. So I note that if we could write an excellent tragedy about the farce that is happening around the Croatian National Theatre but in general in the covered culture in Croatia, all the shortcomings in the sentence we have won the elections, we have the right to do what we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49186	The replica matches Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49187	Yeah, well, you're right, pal, unfortunately. So look at the situation that the council, the competent council of the Ministry of Culture appointed by the minister, is being built on certain amendments and additions proposed by this law. Therefore, the expert council appointed by the Minister or the Minister as the best expert body to provide expert advice and proposals has reservations under the law coming out of the ministry. So, not the council chosen by someone else, not by the council selected by you, or by me or by my colleague, Radjenović or by my colleague Stazic, but by a council appointed by the culture minister who trusted it. Just like I said, before the consensus was taken care of, we had no problem having different council opinions. This council has fences according to these amendments and additions to the law, which means that the profession is completely denied, what was written in the mail this winter at the time of January and February under this law is completely denied, and it is simply in this situation that the law that I believe and you and I believe will have long-term and far-reaching consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49188	Thank you. Your colleague Mesic will now be highly replicated by three representatives of your club. The first one will be done by a colleague of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49189	I haven't answered at all, Mr. Vice President, but no problem, I think.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49190	You haven't answered? Then Joseph Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49191	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Mesic, you were saying something about a conflict of interest. So in yesterday's debate, I used something that comes from the morning list of 24.2. about Mrs. Snježana Banovic. I would say this way to apologize to Mrs. Snježani Banovic if I hurt her with anything to say about the conflict of interest and 50,000 kuna allocated to her house or her drama or her performance. If he is in conflict of interest, then he is responsible, and this will be said by the body involved, and therefore the conflict of interest in this respect is probably on them who will decide on it. However, Mrs Banovic herself, as a member or president of the Drama Council, was very clear about this law that he was not adequate for today's needs, that he was not in line with the Constitution or with certain things, and she clearly said what she meant about the theatre in Varazdin. So I would like to stress that the conflict of interest but also the professional summary of this law on her part is welcome. He warns about what is going on, what will look like and what political press will be carried out in the appointment of the national or prefix to the National Theatre in Varazdin as well as by contributing the law to the further appointment of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb. A pure political decision in one part and another of the ruling coalition that meets its needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49192	The reply to the replica Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49193	You absolutely have the right colleague Djakic, though it is the only case. So we have a situation where, in the Governing Council of the National News Agency, the same person we elected to be an independent regulatory body of the Council for Electronic Media, where we have the opinion of the Committee for the Conflict of Interests that are not being implemented because the person is still sitting there. It's got nothing to do with anything! And I deeply respect when the Vice President of the Parliament says that, everyone should respect the law. But they don't respect a colleague, Djakic. You're only surprised at this committee of conflict of interest. Well, it's not an exception. I am telling you fellow Djakic that each, changes to each law have resulted in someone showing up as the subject of a debate at the Committee for Conflict of Interest. The Committee for the Conflict of Interests, which has chosen most votes again, and not HDZ. Well, not all of them who participated in objections to HDZ law are colleagues Djakic. It's not one. Well, that's not HDZ's attitude. Well, after all, this shouldn't have anything to do with anything, and it's right that those who say we shouldn't bring this down to politics. And then we get a question of the regional theatre whether or not some spin should be around it and darken the real state of the old that's going on. The thing is, there is a danger that even after this law we are dealing with the Committee for the Conflict of Interests of fellow Djakic. And if that's what you were warning me about, then you were right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49194	Follow the replica and Frane Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49195	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mesic, you have rightly called for a consensus and you have explained in fact that this consensus existed at the time of the HDZ government, regardless of the various political thinking and attitudes. It could also be negotiated with the mayor of SDP, etc. And why the consensus? I agree with you here. The key question is why consensus? First of all, because cultural institutions had to have a consensus, and for the sake of basic activity, which you didn't just roll, that's art. Art surpasses all divisions. At least she's true art. We live in a society where everything is going through culture and everything comes down to culture. However, it is the art that is the core activity of the HNK in Zagreb that does not suffer any kind of division and that really exceeds all kinds of and political and various other divisions. This violence that is being waged in this House today, which I hope the ruling majority will still get the strength to reject or withdraw it, this violence introduces a deep division primarily into that institution, introduces a deep division between the founders of the institution, introduces a riot, a mess, introduces a new situation that will, unfortunately, result in tragically for culture, primarily for art. I'm coming from the field of art and I know what a fortune it is to deal with art. The deputy minister comes from that area, from the same mile and I'm really surprised that he defends such a proposal. Here we defend art in the end, defend it against political violence. And that's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49196	The replica matches Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49197	Yes, it is true and you have the right colleague Matušić and I mentioned specific cases. So, at the time of the HDZ Government, the current minister was an equal member of the Book Council and contributed to the work of the council. A fellow Shipush led Osor music evenings and solidly led them well. Thus, how culture can be widely placed when desired. So there was no legal vacuum, or was that when the HDZ club objected to it? It's not. Did the HDZ party bodies object to that? No, they're not. Because we realized it had to be set up like that. Because people know something about it and know something about it. Today we no longer need a public debate, today rather than 20 and a few days after we don't have a signator, we're pushing through the emergency procedure laws that everyone wrote in January that don't need this situation to be remedied and we're not going to solve it, there's going to be other big problems, there's going to be lawsuits and trials and so on, instead of making sure that the most responsible person says we're going immediately with V.D., we're going to go immediately with a review of the competition. Well, it could take less than two months to prevent this situation. It was supposed to be done three weeks ago, not someone saying we sent letters, didn't come back, took away the wrong mailman, etc. Now go with V.D. and the best with the one who's already set this part of the season because it's best directed. So, right away go with V.D., prevent this situation. And that's my recommendation to anyone who can do anything. Right away, name a V.D. in what kind of consent and go to the competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49198	Time. The last replica, representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49199	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Mesic, every government is corrupting, absolute power corrupts absolutely. That's what we've been seeing for the past two years. You asked yourself how it was possible to have a consensus before, and today it wasn't? Because HDZ had a width that the SDP didn't have. Unfortunately, in the interest of it we had states, the SDP is all trying to adapt to its vision of a party state. And what's tragic? It's tragic that after a series of similar laws, so-called Lex law-adapted individuals haven't learned anything. Let's remember Lex Komadina, where did the minister end up? Let's remember this current one that's still in progress, we don't know the ending, but it's very looking. What will be the end of this lex we've already heard today several names once again customized individual? And then we listen to explanations. He says he has to pay 50 million kuna by law. He can, and maybe he'll pay them. What happens if the mayor decides to pay his 50 million 25.12.2014 for 2014? What's gonna happen? Did he break the law? Nothing, he didn't break the law. Will all those 500 employees have a proper reception? Probably not. Maybe some months there'll be something missing. These are the problems when we say that you can't see a tree from the forest and this government I say is absolutely practical. And I hear recently that the prime minister says we're not a bird reserve. Apparently, we too in the Parliament want to turn into a Botanical Garden. Well, we're just the ones who have to warn about all the anomalies of these proposals because this really doesn't go in favor of those who depend most on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49200	Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49201	Well, I see that you have prepared well for today's debate and that you are all correct, but I am sorry that none of my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP have replicated, because they have nothing because I have told the truth, 1/1. Because I can make that argument any time you want. There are legal proposals, and most interestingly, a colleague of the head waving is probably not addressed, which is most interesting for all the legislative proposals that have come in the last year of the term of office was also voted by the SDP. Interesting! For all who have come from the Ministry of Culture in the last year, the SDP has also voted, please be informed. And probably because they thought they were good laws. So give us a chance to support something, too, but give us a real public debate, and we'll vote for it. Give us a chance to take part in a political consensus, too. I told my colleagues and colleagues at the Committee on Culture, talk to everyone you know in Rijeka, Split, Dubrovnik who deals with this topic. Don't listen to us, listen to all the people of the profession what they're going to say, the people you know who are close to you from life, and make a decision about what they're going to tell you, not us. I hope at least my colleagues and colleagues from the board did it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49202	We are left to hear another five minutes of exposure on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, which will be presented by respected counterpart Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49203	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Deputy Minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It's only two notes at the beginning. I speak on behalf of the Croatian Labour Party club, which has 10% voter support after the last survey, and the second opening note is for the vice president of the Croatian Parliament the replica is a short answer to someone's speech, a comment from the site. That's what I'm giving you. And now something about the law because the Vice President of the Parliament always reminds us that we need to seriously collapse that it's a replica, it's a polemic. Replication may be an answer and a controversy, but the replica is this. So we can be self-absorbed not every time. The most important thing in all of what we've been saying today is that everyone has agreed with it except those who have been adamantly defending indefensible is a lack of criteria. We will bring the matter to absurdity except the Varazdin Theatre status of the National Theatre is looking for the Dubrovnik Theatre which I fully agree that the nearest criteria are the Istrian Theatre, the National Theatre in Pula there are amendments, then Sibenik. Only Mr. Djakic disappointed me he did not give for Virovitica and some others probably do not have all the cities of the theatres in the Croatian Parliament. So I wonder what criteria these theatres will refuse when there is no criteria to refuse? I guess we'll hear the answer from the Deputy Minister. So there is no criterion and we don't drag the Theatre into this controversy in Varazdin and we don't mean anything, I'm talking on behalf of the club of Croatian Labour Labour Labour Labs, nothing bad about the Theatre in Varazdin. When we first adopt the criteria and adopt this law which will clearly stand for the criteria then they will vote under that law and we will say that here are the criteria. I don't think we should do that over and over again. There are no criteria for selecting an HNK intent in Zagreb or national theatres 4. But there are some unwritten rules, there's practice. And I was saying, the practice shows that they were intents Danesic, Matković, Bach, Christmas, writer Mirko Christmas, Paro, Miletic, Kosta Spajic, Tijardović was an intent. There's one name that's certainly all artisticly undisputed art status, not these people, great artists. There are exceptions to the HNK in Zagreb, where artists led, and they were not that caliber. Let's say one such period was not so long ago in the late 1980s when he was an HNK in Zagreb, Marijan Radmilović, and when he was director of the drama Zvonimir Torjanac when large plays that are not present, happened in the last twenty years. There were very few big shows, and that's the crisis of the theater. With this Theatre Law, we should have answered many questions, but the ministry is responsible for this powerlessness in this yellow house in Marshal Tito's Square. That's responsible. How was that supposed to be prevented? You should have. They're the ones who got power. They should've done it. It's never happened in history, and it's embarrassing what's happening. We need a whole law and if we had a whole law today, it would be much easier to argue and there wouldn't be an insult, although I don't think anyone would, there wouldn't be an offended pardon, an insult, and it didn't seem to me. The government has the right to change the law, the government has the right to set up its own people but has no right to violate relations in theatres by its inaction. It should be repeated and I will repeat once again, the former indemnity has not been removed, the mandate has expired, but the government has made a mistake in not setting up a man who could either perform his duties here or be an HNK intent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49204	Thank you. Now we'll hear the replicas. First respected colleague, Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49205	You say that there are no criteria for the existence of a theatre at the Croatian National Theatre. There are probably no formal criteria, but in the case of the Varazdin Theatre, there are reasons that should be more important than criteria. The two great reasons are that it is a theatre that needs to be promoted by the Cacao language, a caucus culture such as theatres in Croatia that are specifically oriented to this. And the other thing that should be developed is one specific form of opera art, which is a small chamber opera, which would certainly make a contribution to Croatian culture. That's two good reasons in my opinion. Whether other theatres should be done and become national theatres and can certainly and should be discussed and there are specific reasons for each, and unique criteria will be difficult to come up with. Therefore, the search for criteria is quite declassified. As for the appointment, you say the government is guilty of governmentlessness, the Ministry of Culture is guilty of governmentlessness, and now, this law is trying to get rid of it, but you're attacking that solution again. It is not the idea of this solution that there is no co-operation and joint work between the ministry and the city on the issue. This is the case for a situation where we find that there is no solution and a way out of that situation that you yourself mark as unruly. And the real question, and here I agree with you, is in general the position of theatre, or Croatian national theatres. The fact that the theatre in Zagreb is funded with 50% from the budget and other theatres with 10 or 15% in cities that are weaker in financial power is a situation that does not contribute to the even development of Croatia in the area of culture. And that's what we should talk about. And I agree that the whole law should be passed for that. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49206	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49207	Dear fellow Radosh, you said the search for criteria was declassified. I'm not going to interpret it any further. I mean looking, there are no criteria. I was saying there are criteria. The basic criterion should be, should be, we speak from the practice of three ensembles plus orchestras. The other thing is, you said it was, no one contests the theater that cherishes the Caucasian dialect, the regional dialect, or, my friend Knight says it's a cocoa language, he doesn't admit that, that's his thing is whether. I'm also from that area of poop. You said he deserved it, you should develop a chamber opera, you should, so develop it. So after that, you look for when you develop all this and when the conditions come and then they get the theater status that they deserve, this is how we're going to give a confession like we said last night, we're going to have to give a confession, so we're going to give a confession. Varazdin is a cultural city, a city of Baroque, a city in which it is fantastic to live. But we're talking about something else, we're not talking about the Varazdin Theatre and we're not talking about actors in the theatre, against the citizens of Varazdin or against the culture of Varazdin. And you won't, you won't have to. The matter is clear, the HNS is there in power, the HNS has decided and it's clear that there are no actors, if only a 140-year building that would have been, the national theater would have been, the withdrawal of a national building.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49208	Second replica, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49209	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague of mine once again, you've raised this question of criteria. And I agree with you that the criteria should exist but that they should be incorporated into some decision, should be incorporated into some law, specifically in the National Theatres Act. If we want to assign the status of national theatres, then we need to know exactly what it is. And you're right when you say the Dubrovnik Theatre is closest to that status, why? Now I'll say why. I'll tell you why. Dubrovnik has a professional ensemble called Dubrovnik Symphony Orchestra with a long tradition, a professional one that can meet all the criteria, all the performances currently performed in Croatia and beyond. Dubrovnik has a choir tradition, very strong and strong. I'll say only one semi-professional ensemble that I think is the best choir ensemble in Croatia, it's the Dubrovnik Chamber Choir. And those who listened to him this summer at summer's games know what we're talking about. Third, Dubrovnik has an art school that has raised several generations of ballet women who are now dancing in some other national houses. So here we are, as far as drama goes, I don't think we should tell anyone that Dubrovnik has a professional theatre, a drama ensemble where the champions have been and are still alive who we're proud of is Mise Martinović and Milka Podrg Kokotović. So Dubrovnik has every condition to have a national theatre. Why isn't he here? We can talk. But at the moment when one national theatre status is granted, one other theatre that doesn't have these conditions like Dubrovnik, no, we're saying they're not there. Although I agree to get a national theatre in Varazdin to get, that is, the Croatian National Theatre to become also in Varazdin, I agree with that, I agree with that if they have criteria, if the Ministry will set criteria. But let's not forget Dubrovnik, Dubrovnik must be in front of everyone. Because of the Dubrovnik dialect, because of the fact that the theatre was created in Dubrovnik, that Marin Držić created this theatre, that Ivan Gundulić contributed to the fact that all other artists from Dubrovnik had laid the foundations of the Croatian theatre word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49210	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49211	Dear fellow Matusic and you have another argument very close to you is Hvar and the oldest theatre. I mean the Hvar theater. That's what I'm talking about. That's why everything you've just said doesn't have to be made to a shortcut today. I agree with those who said let's make a decision today to resolve the situation at the Croatian National Theatre. But let's give some deadlines to pass then the whole theater law, is that by the end of the year, which is enough time. There are experts in Croatia who know how to do it, who can write it. Every law has been written for years. By New Year's Eve and after that we decide which theatres deserve the status of national theatres, national houses may not deserve some and the existing ones, they may deserve five more. But then we make a deal, then they'll be able to tell us we've acted according to the law. This is what we're gonna do with our eyes. It's thanks. We'll give someone a confession. You don't need that confession. It's not for those artists who sit on a team, who work in these theaters, who create it in those theaters, they certainly don't want it, it's a purely political decision. It's absolutely certain that the artists didn't sit there I don't know at some meeting we said we wanted, so perhaps, because there is a status in the national theatre then, they know in the Croatian National Theatre that certain actor status is. Then you have the status of national champion, and then you get a higher salary. And it's not true that this law doesn't require any means. If the theatre in Varazdin is declared, it gets the status of the national theatre, then it's different because it says we're going to develop a chamber opera, who's going to pay for it. No, we're gonna raise our hands, not us. There's gonna be some hands up, and what we're gonna do is a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49212	Thank you. Third replica, Ana Komaračić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49213	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I've been hearing a heated debate about this bill for two days now, but my colleague Vuksic and other colleagues have been talking about a very important activity, theatre activity, a very important position of national theatres. What is in this very explanation here says that we have 4 national theatres, that is Zagreb, Osijek, Split and Rijeka and that they serve precisely territorial diversity and regional representation of theatres etc. I'll just tell you but it's just here, in finance everything revolves around Zagreb. I'll give you an example of the river theater. So in Rijeka the budget of the theatre is 49 million of which the City of Rijeka pays 42 million, the state million and 800, the rest are sponsors and revenues from the activity. So, what does that tell us? It tells us that we actually need to change the law in the way it is financed. Or let's say we have one national theater, all the other theaters we don't need or are regional theatres. ... Look, I've been listening to this debate for two days now, nobody's mentioned it, it's all about Zagreb, and we're always the victims of Zagreb. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49214	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49215	I think we mentioned colleagues, in a similar situation is Split, the same Split theatre and Osijek is in the same and colleagues from the HDSSB talked about it. In something more favourable at the expense of summer games, with games far better and much more directed and more willing people giving Dubrovnik Summer Games the name of the game, than they are today those who renamed festivals and gave one international word to the festival, but it doesn't matter. Look, pals, I'm with you guys, we're actually getting along all the time. Yes, there is actually only one national theatre, it is the Croatian National Theatre, these are regional theatres. That's why we need the law, and that's why we need to discuss it, and we'll agree on it. There's nothing less valuable artists out there and there's no telling who owns those theaters. So I was saying, I'm sorry if I offended someone with the rank, it was a parallel, now we're going to give some acts,...we'll give, it's not about that. It is known that it is a feature of the national theatre, however, no one will talk about it essentially. You have touched the essence and the essence is that, we have regional theatres, but here it is said that regional theatres, in the preamble of this law, are said to be... theatres that will have national status. Why, that's what we're going to call them, national status, but they don't have the criteria. And the other thing, yes, let's... exactly, why, if they're national theatres why the Rijeka Theatre wouldn't be funded and... That's right, the state wouldn't fund it if it was a national theatre, then the state needs to be financed. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49216	The last replica, colleague Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49217	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Vuksic, I haven't forgotten to submit the amendment, although I know it doesn't make sense. From the whole debate, I am sure and convinced, but I wanted to contribute this debate with an amendment that also a viritative theatre as a small theatre has the status of the Croatian National Theatre when it can also be varazdin, without criteria, and the criteria for me would be years, traditions, centuries, decades of work, production, premieres produced, new works, an ensemble with professional, quality, professional staff, ways of financing, the role of the city, the county and then states in financing. These are all the criteria that should be. In contrast, the 20-year work of our directors was decorated by the President of the State on the Order of "Dice of Croatia" delivered by the Vice-President of the Parliament Mr. Stazic and it is clearly written what this man has done to make it work, work, survive, and have his champions performing in dramas, series, films and all over Croatia, as well as the environment. These are probably some of the criteria that artists must achieve, as well as directors or individuals in their cultural creation and work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49218	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49219	I know, Mr. Djakic, that you didn't forget about the original theater and ask if it made sense. Shakespeare, describing Hamlet, is not an accurate quote, says there's some order in this madness. Well, I think here, too, if you gave, if everyone gave, then it would be in that crazy sort of order, and then you'd say my people are exaggerating, we're really exaggerating because you don't have the conditions. One sentence that you've just said, which proves exactly what I've been saying, that there are actors who haven't stopped for 20 years or 10 years, and now we need to see the lists of actors, and we're going to know right now who are leaving, or you who are going to the theater that you saw, who you haven't, who you're not, and who's getting paid there. That's exactly what they're getting paid in theaters and acting in soap operas. Look, they've been acting six months since morning, they're up in 4-5 in the morning, it's a very difficult job with soap opera, it's a very hard job and they come home at night and they don't play in their theaters. Even the theatre's intensifiers or directors release them from their obligation at the theatre so that they can complete their budget, their home budget. That's why these last two actors who left Gavella are very, very brave and honest actors who say I'm going to the free man's status because I'm not going to take advantage of the theater, but I'm going to fight on the market because I'm shooting soap operas, etc. I mean, they're so burdened by these problems. It is an unsettled area and which, I am asking the Deputy Minister to really pass the theatre law as soon as possible and that when it begins to write to open a public debate, ask for suggestions from experts, and very soon there will be a solution that we will be able to discuss here, and then on the basis of the criteria, the law will again bring the majority but it will have some frameworks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49220	The closing statement on behalf of the promoter will be presented by Deputy Culture Minister Berislav Šipus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49221	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Let me at least try to answer one set of suggestions, thinking, comments that have been made here and, of course, I thank everyone who has worked hard on it first. Just let me do something small and personal at the beginning of the closing word, and that's some kind of doubt that I'm conducting, I'm improvising here without knowing anything about it. There's something in music called receiving a vista, and a fellow musician knows the same thing as what it means, what it's capable of. But I don't need it this time. My colleague Mesic even said that I had also served as director of the Osor music evenings, that for three years. I was also the director of Music... 14 years, director of Zagreb Philharmonic for 4 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've been leading 11 years... with which I visited all of Croatia and the whole world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I conducted almost every national home in Croatia. If anyone knows anything about the theatre, and even because of my family's belongings, my father was a ballet dancer, I know something about that theater where I started in Zagreb in '77. years as a correptator. So, let's get this straight to the point of whether or not I'm replacing the minister here. Yes, she was in the government today, and I was here yesterday because the minister was sick. Keep going. I must warn Mr Mesic that the truth is that some expert council or one expert council in the set had a reserve against these changes and additions. One member of that council had a reserve. So let's be correct and let's say one member. As far as what we're talking about today, we've been focusing on obviously Varazdin, and it seems to me that a little bit of even absurdity has led to this situation, which is not appropriate. It is not appropriate because these are serious things, the theatre is a serious thing and art is a serious thing. So, I would like to remind you that since 1991 no established status has been changed for 4 national theatres in the Republic of Croatia. It is a theatre in Zagreb, Osijek, Split and the Croatian National Theatre of the noble Zajc in Rijeka. Indeed, these theatres were also given the status precisely because of territorial equality and regional representation in performing theatre activity, but at a certain high professional performance level. And it is certain that these theatres have justified their status by their actions. So both the organisational and personnel and the implementation and the programme are kept so that at the moment when it comes to Varazdin, we will say that this decision also relies on the strategic objectives of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Croatia, according to which we also want to worry about the theatre activity in the region. I will now remind my colleagues and colleagues that the town of Varazdin has given itself a draft and a request to raise the Croatian National Theatre in the city to the status of national theatre. The criteria according to which HNK in Varazdin would receive this status are of course not written in a list or on a list of floors from one to five because I just deliberately said and spoke these other three theatres, let's say, if we agree that Zagreb is a central, national, state theatre. These theaters had one of the criteria that was also not to say unwritten, which is drama, opera, ballet. According to this logic Osijek would lose that status because officially there is no ballet group and we hold that criterion in the context of even future announcements of possible theatres that want this status and is not the key element although we know that the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek will have a ballet performance in December and that makes us all happy. I'll use it right here and tell Mr. Vuksic that I'm surprised by his uninformedness or even one type of dilentism when speaking one theater, one technique, one ballet, one opera. I'll remind Rijeka had a fantastic choreographer and ballet director named Sasa Zurovac. The dance performances played by the company that was so composed were a miracle in Croatia as well as the Split theatre under Almira Osmanovic received an excellent ballet company and again performed the whole house abroad. And today, if I may say so, Dinko Bogdanic is doing amazing things with this ballet group. Zagreb has another assignment, from the so-called "white ballet," so here's to William Forsyth at last in HNK. I know who William Forsyth is and I know how much it cost and how much knowledge and skill and technique it takes to do it. Therefore, I appeal to the success of drama, drama groups, opera companies, ballet groups in Croatia and in these national theatres to let them be praised first because they are superior, indeed. And we can only be happy about it. What's going on in Varazdin? In 1996, the town of Varazdin wanted to get the status of a national house, or HNK, and did not get it. Exactly because these criteria were applied to drama, opera, ballet. The theatre in Varazdin also, if you know or do not know, is the only completed theatre in Croatia, or has a concert hall, has a concert season. Cities like Rijeka, Split, Zadar, Dubrovnik have no concert halls. Varazdin has an excellent chamber ensemble, a Varazdin Chamber Orchestra that really can and should be and will be a Nucleus orchestra of this theatre. Don't be angry with my colleague Matušić from Dubrovnik, but I think the Dubrovnik City Orchestra must work a lot more to really respond to the tasks required of us and even foreign audiences. That's really what I'm saying as a waist and well-intentioned. I think we both know that for many years, however, this orchestra has had one crisis of leadership, including programs, and that it needs to be strongly resisted, and I hope with the new head of conductor that it will be so that this ensemble rises to the level that he knew it would have, absolutely. I also remember Dubrovnik Quartet of Widdock who was one of the top ensembles in his day. So, indeed, theatre activity has changed in many recent decades, and we think that at the centres that also have many needs to be developed by various audiences, meaning both theatres and programs. Not everyone needs to have a white ballet and a chelunk, of course, they can have something else that's specific to their environment. Secondly, the idea of a regional theatre institution task with national status is also an idea that the Ministry of Culture in this meeting strongly supports. This means development and regional access to culture regardless of the county territorial structure. I think that's exactly what my colleague Glavak was talking about yesterday, that the Varazdin Theatre should really be not only the theater of that county but also some others. Even historically I think Osijek and Varazdin cooperated, for a time even the Osijek Theatre and held plays at the Varazdin Theatre, in that long history of the building. Secondly, we also rely on the guidelines of the Creative Europe 2014-2020 EU Programme, where it is recommended that the performance arts, apart from professional production, develop and distribute which are roaming, are spreading to other media, preserving, archiving, documenting production, as well as education. I'll remind you a little bit, here's some information about Varazdin and the theater that we were talking about today. The very history of theatre life goes back a long way in 1637. But the city theater was established in 1915 and it had drama, opera and opera. Since 1945, the theater has been constantly functioning. By 1963, the theatre had drama and opera and a permanent orchestra. Today, it does seem to be a dramatic contemporary repertoire. So we had the works of Croatian writers there, Ivan Bakmaz, Slobodan Šnyder, Ivan Supek, Miljenko Jergovic. The classics, Sophoclo, Molliere, Shakespeare it is constantly on the repertoire of the theatre, but also Central Europe where Varazdin seems to me to be precisely and perfectly positioned. It's Kafka, it's Hoffman,... Molnar, our mole. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, indeed the speciality of repertoires is performed on the dialect, in Caucasian, and that is Hamlet,...a lot of shouting for nothing. Since the 1990s, it seems to me that actors and directors of the performance of the theatre have received over 50 national and other awards and awards. The theatre also has a children's puppet scene, and it seems to me that what is happening today in Varazdin, which is the Varazdin baroque evenings that define this city and through this architectural, or artistic link can truly be an excellent basis for the specificity of the theatre. As far as financing is concerned, it is a painful point for me to find theatre life in Croatia. So, besides the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb, the Ministry of Culture is funding 51% of the financing of theatres with national statutes by the local community, and the Ministry of Culture only participates in the programme section through a well-known annual public call to finance public needs in culture. Unfortunately, for all theatres that are subject to the applicable law and have the status mentioned, which is Split, Rijeka and Osijek, it amounts to less than 6% of the total amount allocated to local communities for their theatres. So the HNK in Varazdin will be funded when it comes to the funds of the Ministry of Culture as well as other theatres with national status means through this annual public call. And I certainly agree that we should start talking about it. There are also some data of the financial type, but I don't think he would be burdening himself with it now, although HNK Split's entire budget is almost 46 million kunas of which the city 36 million kuna maintains or provides. There is the Ministry of Culture present with 2 million kunas in Split Summer and 2 million kuna in software. A million 800 is at Rijeka, a million and 400, a million for the HNK in Osijek. The river has a total budget of 45 million of which the city itself is over 40 million and 270 thousand kuna County. However, I will warn of the case of Osijek and the Osijek Theatre where this division of interest really works, and this would be the same as one of the criteria for giving the theatre status from a region. In Osijek and the city and county are equally involved in funding, and that seems to me close to 12 million each party, which is not the case with the rest of Split or Rijeka. That's one good thing about Osijek. It's not a good thing Osijek got so little money for the program I agree with and I'll think of it, as it's not good for Virovitica either that she got less or for Zadar. But these are the problems we need to talk about. So I believe that really Varazdin needs to be given this trust, and other theatres need to be discussed, waited, seen, valorised and, of course, opened this debate, discussion and discussion and agreement on the funding of the programmes of other theatres. The truth is, when you look at the program in HNK in Zagreb, it is funded with me with 5 million 9...6 million kuna from the Ministry of Culture and about something less than the city of Zagreb means the funds for the program amounting to 12 million kunas without what I would call pay and cold drive... 100 million kuna. As for the urgency of the procedure and the adoption and the amendments and the addition of this law, I would say that it is not conditional on the fact that we are proposing to the HNK to give the status. We have indeed come into a stalemate position relating to the HNK in Zagreb. A lot has already been said on the City Committee on Culture and Media and here in the Parliament. I would just like to remind you of the following, a year ago and more than a year ago he launched the first competition to choose a new HNK in Zagreb that was annulled as next. The next two let's say they did it. The Theatre Council has given its opinion, but I am warning colleagues and colleagues with a surplus and most of the votes for the candidate, respectively. This majority of votes did not include all the art groups, and if you think twice about the three representatives of the art groups, they may also be under a lot of pressure from someone who wants to report for the indent from that house. And one colleague or colleague of your own determined against a candidate for the Indentation Council who, let's say, supported 4:3 was a ratio of not 7:0. And the propos of that number so to solve it immediately, 2 are representatives of the majority owner, i.e. the Ministry of Culture, 2 are representatives of the minority owner, that is the city of Zagreb and 3 are representatives of the theatre itself in this case were representatives of the opera, drama and ballet. Our proposal is that out of those 3.1 of them be also a representative of employees, so-called employees. all employees who are not illogical and I warn the unions of public workers in culture agreed. We had a discussion and a meeting with them and warned them that they would like to comply with Article 164. The labour law put in there an opportunity for other employees to have their own representative. With all due respect, it doesn't have to be an archival, but it can. And he can have some knowledge and some college. It could be the head of accounting if it's from the ranks of all other employees. And that's not bad again. And the Theatre Council is now getting much bigger and more important duties and tasks as the net said and responsibility. So this is about a draft proposal that we want to solve, not a law that is not enforceable, but a law that did not provide for this to happen. When someone put it together, they didn't think that it could happen that two, two sides didn't agree. That's possible, people. Raping a deal is not a democracy. Not even democracy I think the majority owner agrees to... minority owner. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we have come to the position that the applicant has completed his mandate, has ended, so no one has been removed, exactly, counterpart Vuksic says, without us being able to agree on a new indent of the Croatian National Theatre. What the law didn't predict is what if it had no consent and what if the applicant came to the end of the term of office. Two things, whether it's enforceable law or functional, I'm not a lawyer. But we've come to this position. How'd you get it out of her? Well, I think the responsibility has really been accepted by the Ministry of Culture and the Minister of Culture. And that this 26-day situation is resolved. That's right. But I will warn of dilettantism, professionalism, and even sabotage, one person who is up to 1. The 9th could sign a lot of contracts. Yes, I ran the mass of festivals and even Zagreb Philharmonic. And when I left the director of the Philharmonic office on 18 November 2005, he was in March 2006. The Zagreb Philharmonic was visiting Sweden with my signature on the contract. Where is the contract for artists abroad or ours who, today, are performing at the Croatian National Theatre this month. And who could have signed it by 1.9. You think I'm... Sets up August 15th this year or a year ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please, let's be serious because music is a serious business. Tomorrow comes the Vienna Philharmonic in Zagreb, go see what it is, exactly what it is? And what a serious story that is. Therefore, no salaries are questionable for artists, neither are salaries questionable for artists nor at the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb nor in other Theatres. The money, the finances, we have already spoken, we have touched the theatre council, we hold that this law, that is, by amending and supplementing this law, we will allow even the next assembly of the ministry to deal with the crisis that can come with this current law. Seven days of the deal isn't true. The minister of culture and the mayor of Zagreb have a year to discuss a possible candidate. They have a full period of competition that stands at 15 days published, a whole period of 30 days when a decision is to be made. But this man needs to be talked about long before precisely because this man must be responsible for setting something called a four-year term or 8. Well, my people, you know what that means, how many shows it is. How much money is that? So this man has to make a deal, exactly, a year ago. That didn't happen. But you should have seen that coming. But now it is not possible to ask for the responsibility of only one party as it is now in the case of the perpetrator of the duty of the inspector when the Ministry of Culture was ready to accept any proposal from any of the employees of the Croatian National Theatre who can do so under the law. Such a proposal for the city of Zagreb did not come. Six written calls went to the city of Zagreb, three signed by my hand, three of the culture ministers in the last six months to find themselves first in the Ministry of Culture on 27 August, representatives of the city of Zagreb, Ministry of Culture. I am sorry that this dialogue did not continue because I am the first one who is ready to talk about it all the time and find a solution right in the dialogue. But the applicant's duties must be set up because we must allow the ensembles to work normally by artists. You think I'm talking against an artist? I'm still doing that e-mail and calling and I haven't given it up and I won't. Not with, not while I'm doing this duty. As for the group director, i.e. the anasambal whether, opera, drama, ballet, I will remind myself that the statutes and the law were changed at some point in order to enable fellow Lederer when she entered office to replace or replace one of the colleagues who ran the ensemble, an artistic one and did not want to place her mandate at the disposal of what would be fair. We also came here in a bizarre situation that the moment Mrs. Lederer's mandate came out that the term had ended and the director had washed the drama and ballet. So who came up with this, tell me? And, of course, now the acting officer will do the following. The same people who ran the opera, the drama and the ballet so far will name hopefully the performers of duty because they know what's going to happen next three months and four. So you need to be practical. I from my own, truly my perspective and artistic leader, some things I think about in this way the candidate for the performer of duty is also thinking about the intent. And I also hope that these seven days ahead of us that it is possible to reach an agreement with the city of Zagreb, on the name and last name of the perpetrator of the duty of the applicant. And then, hopefully, we'll talk, let's say it now and publicly, it seems to me that we're already actually talking about a new national theatre intent, which we have to choose, we need to get this house centrally to work. I thank everyone for the debates, the suggestions, the thinking. I believe there are a lot of constructive things that really need to be opened up to discussion, debate. And I hope that, at some point, we're going to do it, some kind of theater law that would cover all this trouble and do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49222	I thank the deputy and announce the replicas that are exactly eight. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49223	My dear Deputy Minister, when I mentioned the Osor Music Evenings, I mentioned it in a positive context, I hope that's how you summed it up, that I'm not going any further into it. Very nicely you said you'd need to sit down at the table and arrange, it began only on the 28th after the letters.... So it took a seat at the table, dear deputy minister, before potential favourites who would answer to the ministry or the minister came out on the cover. That's what this is about, not after the opinion of the theatre council, either 5:2, 4:3, you know well that it was 5:2. So, you should have done it before, then you wouldn't have this situation and you wouldn't be in a stalemate position. Now, if someone had 51%, it's an argument for him to cut if the deal can't be, then he's automatically carrying the main responsibility. It can't be 51% given the right to cut in some things without having to bear the main responsibility for it. Otherwise, I'm sorry if I said wrong about Mrs. Banovic's council because she went public, I think she's the President of the Council. Therefore, it is one argument that speaks of shared expert opinions. It is not at all disputed that you in music would know very much about but prima vista and culture in general. It's not a dispute. However, the problem in this law is that we do not have both the second and the third and the fourth views after the public debate and all that was to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49224	Second replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49225	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, you should have reacted, I did not raise any injuries to the Rules of Procedure because I did it once, so I saw a biased body. Mr. Deputy Minister has offended us, we're MPs here, accused me of dilettanteism and uninformedness. You didn't react to that. First of all, the gentleman couldn't insult me because I won't be offended by the Deputy Minister of the Worst Ministry or one of the worst ministries. You keep your lessons, and you can't listen. You have no vision, you have no idea, you've denied anything in any fact. Everything I've been saying is standing behind it and that's right, we can, uninformed. Be careful, you wonder how the European Union recommends the distribution of the programme. Well, that's the '80s, in the '70s, at the end of the day we talked about it, that's what I was talking about. First of all, a good conductor doesn't mean a good manager in culture, a good conductor doesn't mean a knowledgeer of the system of culture, having a vision that you have shown, which you show every day in your ministry. A good football player is not a good coach, you know that as well. So you like to use strong words, and you haven't given a single solution. You diagnosed here. It was a theater in the house, there was nothing else. You still claim what is impossible, you claim that something in the Varazdin theatre will be done that it deserves, doesn't deserve, has no criteria, according to current criteria. One fact you said, maybe some theater doesn't deserve, so do those criteria, and we'll see if the theaters that have national theatre status deserve that status or don't deserve that status. Under that... the criteria that you have now applied is purely foreign, purely fulfilling party tasks whether you are party or not, but the minister is in HNS and it's a party deal, even...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49226	Thank you very much. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49227	Here I am going to finish, even many members of the SDP who said it was so normal that they would raise their voices, normally they would raise their hands because it was a party order.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49228	My colleague Vuksic, I have not responded, the word dilettante is not an insult, a dilettante is the same as an amateur, someone is unprofessionally involved. Therefore, you have now given more insult to the Deputy Minister than he has to you. Let's move on with the replicas, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49229	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, unfortunately, fellow Shipus, you've confirmed everything we've said, so there's no criteria for national theatres, that they're not published anywhere, and you've instructed the reasons why the theatre in Varazdin needs national status. Unfortunately, you've made one mistake earlier, saying about your biography, so I'm going to say my biography so you can mate in that part. Namely, I was the Director of Art School, Professor, I was the Director of Summer Games, also politically removed in 2000, and if you look at the programs that I, my colleague Dešpalj and my colleague Ivancic worked on, then you will agree that these were the best years of the games, from Jehudi Menjuhin to the Israeli Philharmonic..., that I do not list all the programs for you now. I am the current president of the Croatian Society of Music and Dance Pedagogues in the fifth term, with my guitar trio I visited all of Europe and beyond, from Moscow to New York. And that gives me the right to completely challenge you in assessing the flat-rate quality of the Dubrovnik Symphony Orchestra. Namely, the orchestra certainly had ups and downs, but the orchestra was a super orchestra when it was conducted by Lovro Matačić, an extraordinary orchestra. He's a professional body that can be better. If our role models... are philharmonic or Vienna Philharmonic, then no orchestra in Croatia is at that level, it can be improved. But I guarantee it's the Dubrovnik Symphony Orchestra because it works with great conductors and plays repertoire that doesn't play other theatre orchestras that are part of national houses, that it's better orchestra than all these orchestras that work in national houses than all four orchestras that work in national houses. And we can have this expert discussion at any forum, so we'll prove the basis of repertoire, based on the fact that this orchestra is going on. Say Dubrovnik doesn't have a stage, it doesn't have a concert hall. It's only partly true. Dubrovnik is the very stage, Dubrovnik Summer Games, concert season of Dubrovnik Symphony Orchestra Marina Hović theater. [[Intruder Stazić: Time of fellow Matusic!]] My friend Šipush...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49230	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49231	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. You said that the law of 1991 established four national theatres because it took care of territorial equality and regional representation, and in fact this law takes care of it and corrects the injustice against our residents from northwestern Croatia because the inhabitants of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, residents of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, residents of Sibenik-Kninska, Zadar and Split-Dalmatia County, if we look territorially, there are programmes from the national theatre in Split, those from Istria-Primary, Istria, Primorje-Gorski, from the Ličko-Senj County, are the closest those programmes in Rijeka, while, of course, those around Zagreb are the closest ones from Zagreb, Karlovac and Sisak-Moslav County. The inhabitants of Vukovar-Srijemska, Brod-Posaviska, Virovitica-Podravska, Požeško-Slavonska and Brod-Posavina County are closest to the natural programs and the most accessible national theatre in Osijek. The adoption of a new Law on Theatres, which gives the status of the National Theatre both in Varazdin and the inhabitants of Krapina-Zagorska, Varazdinska, Bjelovar-Bilogorska, Međimurje and Koprivnica-Crizevnica County, as well as all others, will make programmes available that will make the acquisition of national status more reliable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49232	Next replica Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49233	Thank you, Vice President. This is clearly based on all these discussions and the final speech of the Deputy Minister, it is obvious that the law is, however, what you are and as a speech to your individual should be more complete. I'll go back to finance. It hurts me and it stings and I think it hurts and it hurts and it hurts and Osijek, and so does Split. And that I don't get it wrong, and as far as I'm concerned, we can talk about all these amendments that have arrived to give us national status. If the waist thinks that all these theaters deserve national status let them have national status only, I don't know what hurts me what that status is and if people are aware of it. If they think they will receive more money from the Croatian budget, they will not receive it. So only the city of Zagreb is funded, these are the minimums, and you said so yourself, only programs are funded. I repeat, I know about the City of Rijeka, that is, our theatre that out of 49 million how total the budget of our theatre is million and 800 comes from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. And I don't know if it's evenly developing cultural activities, or theatre activities in the Republic of Croatia. I'm not so sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49234	Followed by the replica of Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49235	Thank you, Vice President, Deputy Minister. I'd just like to repeat what you said not to forget. You said that the city of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County is so far a unique case in financing the work of the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek. In view of the quality of the work of the programme, you promised to make more efforts to get the funding from the Ministry of Culture to the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek, so here is to keep it recorded from me once again, I thank you for that. But I urge you to seriously consider our amendments. I think we've made arguments for them so that they can be accepted, and then in some intensity of dialogue, I think that certain things can be run in the right direction. And here I repeat once again thank you for saying this, we really expect that such support will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49236	Replica, the respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49237	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Shipush, in his twenty-minute exposure, we've heard a lot of good thesis. However, we have not heard any thesis regarding the observations made here in connection with this law. I'm most surprised that you dispute the value and validity of the decisions, the majority decisions of the council, the theatre council. Then it should be prescribed that they must be unanimous. Since no one contests the majority decisions of the HRT Programme Council, they were all made by the majority. But when it comes to the theatre council, that is the value of such a decision being challenged. You're saying that even the head of accounting can be a member of the theatre council, that he can be, but he doesn't have to be. Could he be head of lighting, could he be head of maintenance, could he be a technician? Of course she can if she votes for the Minister of Culture's proposal. But he can't if he won't vote for such a proposal. What does the deal mean? Who will agree to an agreed solution if there is a way to implement what cannot be agreed upon with their decision. How it is possible that in a year and a half, the minister and the mayor could not have been arranged. I don't know how many times the Minister's called for such a meeting, and now a deal is scheduled within seven days. It all points out that it will be as 51% and that 49% won't decide anything because it's just Bandic, and if he stayed, if he hadn't won the mayor, then it would have been different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49238	And the last replica of Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49239	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, I think it's the right sex. I'd react to something with a replica, but also with a suggestion. I don't think it's wise for anyone in front of the government to call parliamentary representatives a dilettante. Although I am encouraged by the interpretation of our vice president that it has no peorative significance but that it means that they are amateurs, these dilettantes are amateurs and then accordingly it will be my replica. Several of the laws we've received from this ministry's workshop are also dilettaneous works. And no matter what we're cultural dilettants, I'm going to suggest something that I think is dilettaneous under the law, and these are laws from HRT to this House Act. It's not the first time we've passed the law for the sake of one man's needs, we've had the opportunity to see it in the term of this government, but I will warn you that it's dilettaneous to claim that something is legal and legally valid, like your claim yesterday that the integrity of the contract will be determined by this law without any legal procedure. In order for something to be advertised by the worthless contract that you responded to by law on this matter was to be decided by the court. You didn't do it or anyone challenged the contracts, I'm talking about yesterday's point regarding Dubrovnik, so that's the dilettane approach you've applied today when you're passing this House Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49240	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I'd like to thank the Deputy Minister for being an associate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49241	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Theatres, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 470. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments have been submitted, a special table divided by MPs. I'd like a representative of the motionary, the respected deputy minister of Berislav Shipus to be seen. Let's get this straight. Amendment number one of Honorable Representatives of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49242	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49243	There's no esteemed representative. We need to make a statement. Who is for the amendment of the respected representative Damir Caine whom the government does not accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number two respected MPs Ante Kulušić, Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49244	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49245	An explanation, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49246	We believe that the conditions for obtaining the status of the national theatre have not been met, the Croatian National Theatre in Sibenik and the proposal for the establishment of the status of the national theatre has not been submitted and could not have been carried out in the process of valorisation of this theatre.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49247	On behalf of the amendment promoter, Honored Representative Ante Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49248	Well, I am sorry that the conditions have not been met, obviously thank God HNS is not in power as in Varazdin, so there are no conditions, but the Croatian National Theatre in Sibenik was founded long ago in 1870 and is one of the three oldest theatres in Croatia, and it was built with money from citizens without the help of the state and the municipality at that time. The theatre from which Spiro Guberina and Goran Višnić and Ivo Bresan and Pero Mioc and Mate Gamulin and many others came also deserves the fact that Sibenik is originally the oldest Croatian town on the Adriatic, with its cultural and historical heritage, and I believe that Sibenik and Sibenik deserve a national theatre house. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49249	Please state the amendment between MP Ante Kulusic and representative Branka Juričev Martinchev, who does not accept the government. Please, who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to Amendment number three of Honored Representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49250	It's unacceptable. Explanation. We also hold that there are no conditions for obtaining the status of the national theatre from Dubrovnik. The proposal for such a type to determine the status of the national theatre was not submitted and we could not carry out the valorisation process of the theatre.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49251	Thank you very much. Amendment holder, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49252	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's really interesting when a representative of the Ministry of Culture tells you that there are no conditions, conditions that are not prescribed by the Law of Theatres at all. Getting the national status of any theatre is not prescribed by any criteria at all, we could hear it in the debate or any conditions. And that is why it is indeed a couple of cultural shames that will be confirmed by this House that probably the most important national theatre because of the word written down below and created by Marina Holding and its predecessors will not recognise the status of the national theatre. Dubrovnik, which had the foundations of Croatian poetry, dramaturgy and everything else. It's another thing. The very foundations of Croatian language were created in Dubrovnik, the very foundations of all activities in the theatre are in Dubrovnik, and Dubrovnik has conditions. There is also a symphony orchestra, there are also choirs, there is an art school that has raised generations of ballets and ballets, there is also a natural professional theatre whose champions are Milka Podž Kokotović and Mise Martinović. So, generations of actors acting throughout Croatia. And to say that Dubrovnik has no conditions, which are not prescribed by any law, is indeed a cultural disgrace. I expected that there would be more reason in the Ministry of Culture and that this proposal would be withdrawn so that the criteria would be known and that procedures could be known how national theatre status can be obtained. This is how it will turn out that a city in Croatia against which I have no objection, nor against the status of the National Theatre in Varazdin that we understand each other immediately, I am, absolutely in favour of it, but I would support all others if we had the prescribed criteria in the law and if we knew what the procedure for obtaining national theatre status was. After all, the Ministry's Music Council has not given its opinion because its president opposes such an attitude. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49253	Thank you very much. Are you asking for a vote? Please state the amendment of the respected representative Frana Matušić, who is not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number four of the respected representative Josip Djakic's respected deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49254	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49255	The same explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49256	We believe that the same provision contained in the text of the law now proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in fact the proposed amendment is not meaningful.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49257	Thank you very much. Djakic's respected representative is gone, so we'll make a statement. Please state who is for the amendment of the respected representative Djakic, whom the government does not accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, a respected deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49258	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49259	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49260	Explanation. Amendments and additions to the laws to be adopted shall be adopted in order to address certain irregularities of the applicable law and hence its non-functionality. Therefore, it cannot be accepted that, even after the adoption of this law, it is referred to its application.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49261	On behalf of the club, the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49262	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In fact, we're staying on the amendment and we're asking for a vote because the law and the proposal that's there is going to be a lot of deviation. We expect problems at the theatre in Osijek. We therefore expect the vote to be put on this amendment, because on the proposal of the indent, or director, we propose that the statute be adopted with the consent of the founders, or founders with the majority share. Other general acts of theatres, or theatre families, are also adopted on the proposal of the Incident. We therefore consider this to be one help so that we do not get into the problems we have today in Zagreb, tomorrow in Osijek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49263	Please state the amendment number of the five HDSSB Representatives Clubs that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to amendment number six of the same club representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49264	It's unacceptable. So I'll do it again. Amendments and additions to the laws to be passed, I just need to ask you a little bit, Mr. President of the Parliament. I think we skipped. It's number five. Mr. Bubalo read the explanation for this amendment number five, not for number six. And I've already read the explanation for six. So number six now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49265	All right, now he's the number six respected deputy minister. Number six, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49266	The amendments and additions to the laws we're making are just to be, number six. That's number six. My colleague Bubalo responded to number five, I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49267	It's all right. You're the only one who finishes argument six.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49268	Okay. I'll read it one more time. Therefore, amending and supplementing the law is the sixth amendment of the HDSSB Club that is not accepted where procedures are to be initiated under the provisions of the Law on Theatres will be completed under the provisions of the current law. The reasons for not accepting that amendments and amendments to the laws are passed in order to address certain irregularities and the applicable law and thus its non-functionality, therefore it cannot be accepted that after the adoption of this law it is referred to the application of the old one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49269	On behalf of the promoter, the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, the esteemed representative, Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49270	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We hold because there are several competitions, and one of them is in Osijek, that the implementation of the tender should be carried out under the current law. Therefore, we remain on our amendment and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-25-0.u49271	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number six. A HDSSB representative club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much, Deputy Secretary. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's for the final bill? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? What's the score? I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, 25 votes against and 4 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Theatres in the text, as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
