ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55846	Mr. President, thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, we have come to an end about the Consumer Credit Bill proposal. As for the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a legal proposal that we have been working on for a year. Which just shows that we have been working for a year that we have really tried to find compromise solutions for this law, satisfactory solutions for the citizens of Croatia, for individual citizens' initiatives, for the banking system, and at the same time solutions with the National Bank of Croatia which essentially oversees the business of the banking system. For a year, we see that compromises have not been achieved for the simple reason that the banking system is not willing and did not want to participate in the creation of a new law. It is important for this Law to provide some information to try and understand why the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to amend and supplement the Consumer Credits Act. The year 2013 for the government was the year of the fight against indivisibility. Last year, there were 34.7 billion unpaid accounts in the Republic of Croatia. Which meant that we can conclude that individence was problematic for both the economic system and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. A series of amendments to the laws in the economics section resulted in us coming from 44 billion points 7 somewhere this month to 34 billion unpaid accounts recorded. All this shows that additional measures have produced results in the fight against insolvency but unfortunately only in the case of the economic part or in the business of economic operators. Unfortunately, when we talk about citizens' indifference, then we must say that the negative trends continue. So it's just enough to say that in the 3rd month of 2013, the principals in the blockades were 18 billion 750 million. 255,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Data from 31. In 10th, it shows that the blockades are 22 billion and 600, which means 4 billion majors, are free of interest from major blockades and at 290,000 citizens. Which means that the government's desire to achieve a certain reduction in regularity in payments and the possibility of citizens from their incomes was the reason why the Government of Croatia's intention was in some way trying to find a solution between the banking system and the citizens with a view to protecting citizens in business with banks. Why was that important to us? If we analyse 22 billion and 600 million kunas of current citizens' blockades, then we see that the financial sector, which is the banking sector plus the insurance companies in the blockades, has 15.2 billion or 67% of all the blockades, is by the financial system and it is increasingly evident that the implementation of obligations and growth of the liquidity of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The state budget is in blockades with 1.5 billion or 7% of all blocks. Unfortunately, because of the financial sector's blockades, citizens don't even pay their utility services, so the utility block is 1.2 billion or 6%. And then we're adding telecommunications, and then citizens' relations and their blockades and lawyers, and we're going to see that it's another 1.5 billion kunas of blockade. We all go that the basic reason for not paying off financial commitments is, at that point, the non-payment of all other liabilities. In its field of work, the government of the Republic of Croatia has turned to citizens, so it has given the possibility to reprogramme obligations to the state, to write off interest if the principal is paid, so we have to say that we have processed 31900 requests for reprogramme citizens and that the total demands of 2.9 billion citizens have been reported to regulate relations with the country where we have recognised them in some way 1.8 billion, plus 1.1 billion interest. Therefore, when we look at the attitude of the state and citizens, we have tried to make a contribution to that part. This was the reason why we assessed the need for new amendments to the Consumer Credit Act in a way to facilitate the situation in the settlement of financial commitments. What does the law contain, and where do we think there is no dispute over the law? First of all, we estimated that bank experts introduced a series of fees, additional costs, all in order to increase their earnings, without citizens turning through contractual obligations to these small things, and these small things were almost a third of all commitments to banks. This is why we have defined that all future fees must be made very clearly and transparently in the contract, that no additional fees can be agreed, and then we have yet to assess that these are specific relations between citizens and banks, that the finance minister prescribes which these fees can be related to the loan. And to simply limit the bank's ability to income and increase income on account of citizens not understanding what credit and fees are. In that part, we found an agreement of a reluctant and banking system, but agreed that such a solution would still need to be adopted in that part. We also estimated that the lack of communication of the banking system with citizens of the users of banking services and that, for reasons of lack of communication, non-transparent communication, citizens are unfortunately exposed to additional risks and the carrying of all additional risks in credit business, so we simply now have to make sure that each believer has to know in writing all the risks that some legal business with the bank brings to the consumer. And of course, that's when we came to the most sensitive interest issue. Why the most sensitive question? Because simply 290,000 citizens with blocked accounts, somewhere over 650 thousand accounts because apparently that citizens have multiple accounts also blocked, shows that the basic objective of the banking system was to push citizens into the consumer sphere, without analysing whether these citizens were able to service their loans. And all these stories about the economic crisis in Croatia, that many citizens have lost their jobs, followed by pay cuts, all of which is something that we don't think can be justified by the banking system in part of having so high unpaid claims based on credit wars, and we also estimate that there was not enough analysis of the economic capacity of citizens who took these loans. And that is why we believe that what is able to limit the government's maximum interest for the simple reason that the banking system is true can lose its goal then to secure loans under these conditions of interest rates, but this means that a much more serious analysis of every citizen seeking credit will also be made. Many economic theorists who aim at economic growth depended solely on consumption will be against such solutions, but we were aimed at making sure that the level of the interest rate still means the anuities that Croatian citizens can pay, depending on their average incomes. And that's why we're going into every possible definition of the height of the interest rate. We accept that banks can have different funds that they use to pay the citizens. In view of the possibility that even for exchange rate differences, we would then go to define that the average prices of these loans are those that must represent the cost of the bank and that the difference to the banking rate could be a margin. The margin shall not be changed throughout the loan. And we estimate that change can only be at the price of capital. If it is on the European market to move the price of capital on the European market, if it is savings and deposits, then it is a change of interest on deposits. If that's the price of Swiss, then it's a change in the price of Swiss. But the fixed margin remains unchanged. It is a certain risk and banks, because in this fixed margin we also see that risk price of the Republic of Croatia given the decline in credit rating, here we see problems of the bank at the level and difficulties of the collection. Therefore, everything is contained in that margin. Therefore, we estimate that for the entire duration of the credit-price loan, the variable rate can only be in the price of the currency movement chosen as the basis of the loan, and the fixed margin must remain fixed, which means that, the risk of the state, the decline of the state's rating, the problem of the bank's payment, will solve it with its margin and bear part of the risk in the credit business, not all the risk to the citizens of Croatia. Therefore, in that part we insist that in the future each variable interest is divided into two parts, the capital source price plus the bank margin price, where unfortunately it must remain unchanged. And we quite clearly define that in our provisions regarding the amendments and additions to the Consumer Credit Act. In order to avoid discrimination in some ways, because some contracts are concluded earlier then we have obliged the banks to install in that change interest rate on a fixed margin and the variable capital price of the credit source, which means that with any change in the interest rate that the bank will change it will have to apply the new provisions of the Consumer Credit Act. And then we came to the most controversial point around which the banking system triggered the entire avalanche of conflicts in the Republic of Croatia, threats, personal discrimination. Therefore, I would say how much there is no feeling for citizens' problems, how much there is no feeling at all that the continuous rise in the amount of unpaid claims from citizens is and their problem that they did not want to face unlike the Government of the Republic of Croatia but that they had to protect their positions independently of the results and findings that I was talking about at the beginning. This was the reason why the government was left alone in this proposal where we went with a very clear proposal, which is where we suggested that each citizen must be set a new interest rate on those loans that had a 20 per cent rate difference in themselves and that we try to individualise everyone's problem in this way, all in order to sort of share the burden of bad business, bad credits between citizens and banks. And that citizens make exchange rates because they have signed such contracts, because it is a regulation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not deal with. But we have estimated that the interest rate we can try to construct on the models of this solution, and that means trying to get to the margin and the capital price at this point in Swiss if there are certain exchange rates in another currency. A solution that we simply go ahead of you for the simple reason that there was no compromise. A solution that bankers try and constitutionally dispute with the idea that citizens have signed contracts and that our solution means denying the signed obligations of Croatian citizens. I'll go back to that subject. Our goal was also to limit the maximum interest rates. And you have a solution to maximum interest rates, too, in front of you. It's a matter that was quite difficult for the government for a simple reason because when we observe European practice for them it was simple that they determined 7 times the average rate so let's say seven times as easily acceptable. Only the price of capital outside is 0.5, 0.8, 1 and 7 times less 7%. Seven times bigger for Croatia would mean 6.5 times 7 equals 45%. Which means we couldn't come to such a solution. That's what we've been breaking up about for a long time. I have to say there's a certain deal and a compromise. And then we suggested that the highest interest rate be for housing loans averaged in the last year, and on average achieved by some sources will be defined by the National Bank because it is its area of work but we allow a maximum interest of one-third of that average interest rate. Which means banks can move within that one-third above some average interest rate. Which for us means that long-term loans, housing loans could no longer be far more than 7.5, 8% and all depends on how much the average interest rate will be given by the National Bank and how far it has been achieved in the previous year. I repeat, a very risky provision because this could mean reducing bank activity to financing apartments for the simple reason that bank costs can be very high, margins very small and the bank does not have any interest. But at the same time, the interest rate from 8% to 20, 25 years a citizen cannot calculate especially if we take the average income of citizens and their obligations. And that was why we still opted for such a rigorous solution. A solution that was more or less agreed with the National Bank. The National Bank has sent us during these last discussions and certain amendments, so today the Government will set out these amendments after the meeting of the Government, and I believe that the debate will continue, before you, in which decisions the National Bank very clearly decides how it will demonstrate this average interest rate. So these are the technical details that will strengthen this solution that is ahead of you. When we talk about other consumer loans, then our proposal is that the highest interest rate is averaged by sources plus one half. Which means we allow greater differences in the lending of individual banks because we believe that other consumer loans are one year and two years old. So, short-term. Well, in some ways, citizens will be much easier to bear than a slightly higher interest rate. So these are our proposals and solutions, which in these discussions have reached some consensus between the banking system, the National Bank, and we estimate that this is a matter that we will possibly be able to change and all depending on what the economic situation in Croatia will be but also what will be the position of citizens and the heights of their poverty or wealth. One of the problems we also decided to try to solve were overruns on the citizens' current accounts. For the simple reason that in 2013 we had a reverse trend. By 2012, banks had pushed citizens into as much consumption as possible, in as much debt as possible, and in 2013 they started the process of deleveraging. And that means making citizens pay off all their obligations immediately. One of these obligations was overruns which were not clearly defined, so overnight banks gave the order to close the minus and that the amount of minuses to current accounts had to be paid. Very irresponsible, very unserious. We talked about communications, it was phone calls, it was e-mail accounts, etc. It just shows what the level of communication between the banking sector and citizens is. That was the reason why we now have a solution before you that the bank must report to the citizen 30 days before not allowing it to exceed the current account. But also if a citizen cannot return within 30 days that he must, without any additional cost, grant him a 12-month payment and that the citizen then has a decent time to repay his obligations because he has decided not to change his business policy but rather to change his business bank. And we also think it can't change the interest rate, so there's no additional costs no increase in interest rates. And I think that this is how we have made it possible for all those citizens that the bank has decided will no longer tolerate them by overcoming them to settle their obligations to the business banks and I think this is a solution that is in some way acceptable for both the banking system and the citizens. What we still wanted to resolve is the total cost of credit to citizens, and that means interest rates and fees, and in some ways we went to see that consumer loans for housing are 9%, and the other 11% when we talk about total costs. Somewhere with a tight interest at this point would be about 12%. These are about the solutions that we would be offered and offered in this final reading. I'd like to say that during yesterday, the banking system insisted on a new meeting and a new meeting was held last night. I believe that banks have been greatly affected by the work of the Finance Committee and have come with a proposal not to go into any lawsuits, not to dispute any constitutionality of the solution but to propose a solution that we do not have individual solutions for each citizen's costs but rather to go to unique solutions for the simple reason that they consider that a different solution will come from their committees. During today's morning, they submitted their proposal, and the proposal says to establish agreed average prices in Swiss, and they ranged from 4% to 4.2%. And they suggested that we cut that average interest by 30%, which means that the cost of Swiss would move around 2.7 to 2.9%. For a note, that would be a Swiss cost. To note, the current cost of Swiss is about 5.3% when we talk about interest rates. They thus offered a solution that means reducing interest costs by 45% compared to the current solution. The government's proposal cannot be considered, we will try to consider it at the next session, so I think it can mean an acceptable solution because it is a significant contribution to the banking system in part of the problematic loans. It will not mean judicial costs, conflicts, and on the other hand, from 1.1., all of them would be immediately subject to reduced interest. What's the problem with this solution? That all those citizens who have the biggest exchange rate may in some ways have 0.7, 0.8% interest rate higher but all those other citizens who have had fewer will perhaps have slightly higher savings on interest. But they think that unique solutions are far more acceptable than individual solutions. So I suppose the government could agree with this if no one fits the court proceedings, so we don't want this law to be put back in a state of rest until the court problems are resolved, because we think that we already have a deal at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55847	Honorable Ministers, bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55848	Thank you. The effect during this year, and yet it is our opinion that maybe as a government we will deal with the bank's proposal and deliver the amendment before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55849	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We have a few replicas. Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55850	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Minister. You are in all polls the most popular minister in the Croatian government, so I don't want to spoil you and I'm not happy to spoil that pleasure. You have gained this popularity by implementing some of the fiscalisation measures that are justified and now these banking moves or bank moves, in fact, the frustration of the people you have channeled in some way in one hope that these measures will fill the state register and that there will again be prosperity and all the offices, however very quickly we have sobered ourselves from all these false expectations, tomorrow the IMF arrives. But what's my replica of you, you said that you've been making up this law for a year, and that's the problem, Mr. Minister. You've come to power, you've taken over the state in the economic crisis, you should have had a plan ahead of what you're going to do with both the loans and the banks and this and that, and this law you've been making up for a year, I want to say and point to the government's tromitude. It should take you not one term of four years but ten terms of 40 years to get the state out of crisis. And one general trombone of the government, unideabilities and all possible negative aspects of running an active policy have led to one dubiosis of the state that I have to call the IMF practically recognized this government is not able to solve this issue we have to call someone else. And you should have made a decision on the first day to cut 10 billion Croatian deficits, and this was possible in Croatian conditions if you still need some credit, throw yourself into the economy and taxes down that way to drag the state up. And you didn't do it, and now you're here where you are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55851	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55852	Mr. Representative, I'm sorry you're going into political waters, but I won't be in your debt. Two mandates need to be cleared of everything you've destroyed in eight years of your term, two mandates. It's not a problem of income, Mr. Representative. The problem is your unhappiness. You're the ones who haven't solved the shipbuilding, the railroad, the health care, the management. So if you think you can do it in six months then make sure you've been doing it for eight years. For 8 years, you have spent the citizens of Croatia. For eight years you've made them poor and now you have the courage to say it's the wrong government that doesn't work, it's the government's fault they don't know. What are you talking about? Shall we talk about signing collective agreements? It takes us two years. Two years to change them. What do you want? To end all parliamentary procedures and be violent, is that what you want? So that what you've been hurting for eight years. Eight years doesn't work. And remember, it won't be that easy to get out of a crisis for one reason only. Because you haven't known how to run the country in eight years. So let's not go into political waters, let's not. I'll draw you every kuna, every kuna you've destroyed needlessly, all the debts you've left behind. Where's that going? What do you want? Create a fight, circuses? Unresponsible controversy? We're talking about citizens who owe 22 billion. 22 billion. What have you done for these citizens? What did you do? You left them out of work. You've driven everyone out. I can't pay my dues, shall we talk about it? What's this? [[What is this?]] A political debate because the gentleman wanted a political debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55853	Thank you very much, thank you very much. A new replica, a respected representative of Martina Dalic. Please don't do anything from the bench. Dear representative Martina Dalic. ... She's gone? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55854	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, I don't think you just have the need for this kind of tone and this kind of yelling because if we're going to transfer to each other, then there's a lot to go on. There have been different periods that anyone has left to whom, remember the 3rd month and meeting of the late President Racan, you, Church and Cacic in the government. But if we're gonna move it, we're not gonna solve the problem. So I'd like to ask you nicely that those of you who have begun such an argument should give up on her, to discuss the law if you wish. If we don't, then we're gonna have to pretend, but it's not gonna get us anywhere. So much for getting started. Therefore, if you want to have such a discussion, then we can discuss it. If you have received information from your colleague, Maroya, as discussed on the Committee on Finance, then you will see that you have no argument for what you have just said. But I'm saying if we move each other, we can switch. Only colleague Linic's 2008 budget deficit was 0.8% and you can't deny it and you can say whatever you want. That's what it means, and you can't say that something didn't seem to happen. You can't say you inherited the Ministry of Finance in a mess, you can't say that. But far from it. So, what I wanted to say was why I volunteered for the replica, but my time was up, but only one part. I think that the key to this law is the Swiss and that they should have been squeezed by banks before, that the central bank should be more actively involved because all these other parameters you were talking about could in principle agree with the interested parties without a problem. So that's it. And if we cut short, there will be further opportunities for discussion, I would beg you without political bickering and demagogy. You said the liquidity was reduced from 44.7 billion to 34 billion. Is this 13.7 billion paid from an account or are administratively removed blockades and liabilities because some of the procedures of the state administrations [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55855	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55856	Mr. Shuker, don't tell the truth. Slavko Linic has not started a political debate, so please contact your colleagues. Whoever wants a political debate from you will have it from me. Whoever wants to, but don't say I started it. In my opening argument, there was no political debate. None. Therefore, contact your colleagues. Because you understand one thing. I solve the problems of the Republic of Croatia that you left behind. Which you left behind. And that's not what I'm talking about. But if someone had to say then that we're incompetent, that we don't know what we're doing, then I'll just give you a look at the latest IMF statements that talk about... the reforms that were implemented in 2012 and 2013 which you should have done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, for the record, whoever wants to have a political debate will have. My tone is a sign of my nervousness. I'm shocked about morality, where morality is, for eight years, not working and now calling someone else. So, Mr. Shuker, I'm very clear to you, it's going to be the kind of debate you want. As for your, uh... questions, then yes, you must know that the good part of the blockades has been removed from the economy, why? ......... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, no, she's not paid. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Why? Because the state has provided businesses with reprogrammes. Well, instead of blockages, we now have contracts, so businessmen pay their dues. That's number one. And under number two, the pre-nuptial settlements we've established in this House are unanimously giving their results. Unfortunately with the write-off, but there's no obligation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55857	Thank you very much. We've completed the first round of replicas and responses to the replica. Do the rapporteurs of the board of working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to take and report? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the Club of Independent Representatives or the list of Independent Representatives Grubisic and Damir Cain to share time with the club. Dear Representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55858	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It would be good if the ball calmed down and we could go to the scale of this debate, with no raised tones. The dialogue is essential when it comes to discussions in this home but it must be honest and must be free. The incursions of any form of demeanor are not suitable for the subjects we speak of even this home. I have personally experienced, although not as an expert, there are experts who can speak more, but I have experienced this presentation by Mr. Minister very positively and we will support this proposal as independent representatives, honestly, openly and in favour of the citizens themselves who are affected with certain loans, cannot return and it is a great amount of money. But I do have an impression after listening to this exhaustive and honest report in good faith by the minister who wants to bring order into this problem, I have the impression that this is still one spill from the hollow to empty and this will not solve the accumulated problems in which Croatia is located. It is one of the solutions, we welcome it, we will support it, but it is not what Croatia needs, so it would return to our position from the beginning when I came to this Parliament that Croatia needs root changes. I believe that Croatia has enough money to invest and achieve new values and create new jobs, but that money is often spent unintendedly, wastefully. We have loose agencies, we have various commissions, we have managerial contracts, we have a lot of those who get high wages, and they don't do anything, and we should, we have over 550 local administration units that can't finance themselves, and we should get into the reconstruction of the state administration, reducing local self-government units, reducing the county, and even reducing members in this House of Representatives. There are many reserves of money to invest in additional values, for employment, and that needs to be changed. You stated that we are now unpaid accounts of 34 billion and that negative trends continue, that's what the minister himself said. We accept that, and if the depression in the people themselves was measured with these changes being made here, then she wouldn't be optimistic at all. That is why I believe, and in the second part, my colleague Cain will say, that we welcome this trend of change, that we will support it but, while noting that we need root changes in the administration, in the reconstruction of the administration and other aspects that will help us not to need the IMF, that we can handle it ourselves in an appropriate and adequate way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55859	The second part on behalf of the same club is Honored Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55860	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here after a long time most likely will come a full consensus on this law. So it's about this Consumer Credit Act, in a people known as the Swiss law. As Don Grubisic said, it is understandable that we will vote for and for several reasons but before that two or three nice things about banks. On 15 September 2008, it is considered to be the beginning of the biggest financial crisis in the last 80 years. On that very day, the American Investment Bank Lemon Brothers filed a request to launch a bankruptcy procedure and the crisis rocked all over Europe. Many countries, for example. one Denmark, even 80% of its one-year GDP, had to be set aside to resuscitate its banking system. It seems to me that some 3,000 billion euros have been allocated in Europe to resuscitate their banking system. Croatia, as we know, has passed without an earthquake. Clearly, the price was paid by consumers, the economy above all by the very few, I dare say in one word the poverty at which it is all fractured, and when it comes to borrowers, the biggest damage normally or the highest price was paid by those who took the loans in Swiss. In 6 months on the other side of 2013, this year, the profit of 33 Croatian banks fell 40% or 40% less than in the same period last year. That's about 900 million kuna somewhere. Even the gain of 33 Croatian banks is 100 million kunas less than just one Croatian company of T-HT and the man wonders normally why this T-HT was sold as why they were sold, for example, the rescheduled banks. A dozen banks and 2012, 2013 were operating at a loss. Now, we see new administrations or new owners in Croatia in this banking system that they've been doing just as great things by logic until someone gets dark, the other one gets lighted up. And even though I dare say that some logic has saved us from those shocks from the 1990s, running on the counters, etc. etc. Now why should I support this law? Right, the banks will suffer a fall in income. It seems to me that for the last time in the first reading Mr. Minister spoke of some 300, 400 million kuna, the banks are today talking about a loss of 760 million kuna. At this time it's certainly a lot, but the bankers didn't care all these years about Croatia's fate. It could even be said that their greed coincides with the crisis in some way. The worse it went to Croatia, the better it was for some in the administrations. These are not our bankers, and it should be said in Croatia they invented hot water. They only followed the recipes of their mothers, and if that were the case or had been better said, they would not have given bonuses to the bankers. Since the start of the crisis, if I'm not mistaken, 836 million kunas have divided several hundred people who ran Croatian banks. Only on interest since the start of the crisis have they earned 42 billion kuna. Although, as I understand it, Mr Linic and I think this morning's or last night's proposal from the bankers should be very well considered. I would even dare say that I realized that the next day would be more advantageous for those who were saving in Swiss, which is in some way logical and for the damage they suffered than those who were saving in euro. We just need to ask ourselves whether they will be corrected by the injustice that has been done to them so far. One paper said that four management presidents, four of Croatia's largest banks since 2008 had divided 55 million kuna bonuses. Of course, that's what they've paid their taxes on. It's okay. But even after tax, there must be something left. So let me quote, says the biggest bank in the first year of the crisis in 2008 to its leaders 60 people paid 60 million kuna. The next year, when Sanader cried out in the bananas, we paid 57 million kuna for the next year, in order to get the executives a EUR 67 million bonus. The following year 2011 is even worse for Croatia. But that bank pays as much as 73 million for wages, bonuses, while last year, which reduced bonuses in the narrow sense of the word paid even 80 million kuna. A total of 337 million kunas have been paid to the bank since the crisis broke out. That's the 60 people. It's enough to say it's pretty much like that everywhere else. I mentioned that around 838 million kunas were paid bonuses in Croatian banks. I said, they paid taxes on it, but no matter what I said, it stays. Now, what are we supposed to do? Right, without a stable banking system, there's no economic stability. The key to stability among other things is banks. Our banks are now as full as a bat, but the problem is that 80% of citizens have no intention of raising credit anymore because the simple moment is like this. It says it's not working, it's not working, it's not believing in that economic moment, but bonuses are what banks can certainly give up. I agree with the economy is not easy and even the biggest companies record the drop from THT 30.6%, INA-E 58.9%, Petrochemy not to mention, even Adris etc. It's not good, but banks make money on citizens. It's been so since the world and the century, and so it will surely be in the future. Next year, this country, we read now, will have to be in debt for 44 billion kuna. Here's your bank job, you can work with the state, and here's your chance to keep your bonuses. Next year, the state will be in debt for 44 billion kuna. Some banks have embarked on these premises and highly suspicious business. Some Austrian bankers have recently been able to read, even working with criminals in these areas. I won't mention the name of that bank now, but the Austrians themselves are saying that in one of these banks, the biggest crime occurred after World War II. That's enough to say. They collaborated with the worst criminals high-ranking, corrupt politicians, military personnel, secret services. The accounts were kept in this Liechtenstein, etc. And for the end. I'm sure this law that has long been used to grind on the wound to those who have been saving in Swiss, if anything can help at all. He follows the logic of the judgment in Swiss, which unfortunately only affects natural persons, and not legal persons, because it comes from the fact that the one who runs the legal person, I don't know d.o.o. etc. They're just professionals. And I'm asking myself what she's like as a hairdresser who has a D.O.O. and she took a loan in Swiss could suggest where and what opportunities would be in this country, while on the other hand, excuse me, some economics professor or professor of economics at one of the universities, or it doesn't matter where he could certainly imagine what would happen in that one to say the economic and political environment in the Republic of Croatia. And now that professor's gonna get his money back, and that hairdresser's not gonna get his money back, or she's gonna keep paying, I don't know by the conditions, at least how she paid and boredom. But now it's tanging this law, and that's why it needs to be supported. Of course, we're where we are. We are facing a law that corrects a single injustice, but it is a serious moment but I do not believe that this measure simply does not believe that this measure can have any impact on the banking market and that is why the law absolutely needs to be welcomed. And I said once again, the banks will eventually, especially if Croatia has to be in charge of these 44 billion kunas the next day, hopefully without the IMF intervention, they can make a lot of money in the country itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55861	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, a replica of the presentation of the respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55862	Dear President of the Parliament. My colleague Grubisic, you said some positive things here, but you didn't say everything, so I'd supplement you a little bit. We're not going back in time now. The SDP government sold Croatian banks in 2003. She sold Croatian banks without any rules of conduct in Croatia. Then why didn't she determine there was no foreign exchange clause? Then why didn't she use this mind today? It's a late mind of eight, or twelve years now, that sort of repairs, okay. This bill of law has positive elements for which I could raise my hand, but this is no genius, it's a scream, genius is just a scream. I'm not in the kindergarten of the SDP to be impressed by someone's scream. This is the political home, this is a political institution, and we're talking politics. And about what? We're not talking about science. What you said was right that they hired, that there are a lot of clerks, some of whom don't even know what they're doing, etc. I agree with you, for the first time in two years, but you did not say that this government increased the number of officials in Croatia, increased the cost of maintaining them rather than reducing them. This government has led to the fact that it cannot hire a nurse in a hospital that is clearly needed and employs thousands of officials today with millions of expenses for the state administration. She doesn't understand what to do in this country. And some ministers then get angry when someone in this political home is paid to tell them that some minister is angry because someone dared to say that. Oh, please, that's nice. Where did we come from? We are tired of in some way of intellectual terror so that no one in Croatia should say anything other than what someone is conducting that they should think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55863	Thank you very much. There's no response to the replica. Let's go to the next, distinguished representative, Ivan Shuker, the respected representative, Damir Kajin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55864	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. You mentioned last night's meeting with the bankers and perhaps the foundation of what the minister said might be wiser if we had delayed this debate until it was defined. First of all, this law is adopted primarily to help those who have problems in Swiss and should have been portrayed as such. But to be honest, there is always one step left, one thing is not said until the end. What's the lead today for those who have credits in Swiss? Unfortunately for them, the principal remained very high because of these currency risks, due to an increase in the Swiss exchange rate. You cut their interest rate and you do the math, and you'll see what their financial position is going to be. But the best thing to do here is to yell, but I say there are arguments for everyone. Everything can be discussed and everything can be discussed, but I think that finances and figures are an exact thing and that it can be discussed exclusively. So if we're going to introduce a scream and a noise here, we're going to be yelling on the other side with some other numbers. But ultimately believe it will not help Croatian citizens who have loans in Swiss, it will not help this new river of the unemployed and it will not change the poor macroeconomic forecasts of the Republic of Croatia. And I'm saying about that, a bunch of things can be discussed, but it's not good to get numbers out of context. And that minister as a longtime financier knows very well. And if anyone ever pushes numbers into politics, he pushes them. But I don't want to talk politics, nor have we talked about it, but talk about how to help citizens who have loans in Swiss. I think that law is primarily due to them because these other things could easily be arranged both with the National Bank and with the bankers. However, the key problem in the end, and the minister said at the end of his debate, the key problem is that it will be with loans in Swiss that have been raised... Fifty years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55865	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55866	Yes, Mr. Shuker, you weren't talking to me. You were actually... What about me? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I wasn't yelling, I wasn't yelling, so I thought you were replicating others. Here I am, as I said in my discussion, I even think the banks have saved us from one major crisis. But who did they transfer that burden to? First of all to citizens, first of all to the economy and first of all to those at this time who have borrowed in Swiss. A man keeps asking himself why our bankers didn't get along, I understand everything well because of the opportunities in this country, interest with those in the mothers' banks. So, in Italy, Austria, Germany, etc. That's the point. Why, as citizens or small employers or large ones, they still pay a higher price than the others who save in their mothers' banks. So they're loaned. Why didn't they affect their bonuses on the other hand? I said before at the pay phone that somewhere around 850 million kuna from the crisis was divided into 300, 400 managers in 30 Croatian banks. I said that only the presidents of 4 administrations of the largest Croatian banks shared bonuses of 55 million kuna. On average, in those 4.5 years, each member just on the basis of a bonus received at least a million kuna. On interest, our banks have earned 42 billion kunas since the start of the crisis here. And lastly, I will repeat once again that this proposal that banks are offering now regarding the treatment of that Swiss may not be to be rejected. As I understand it, even from today on, those who took the loan in Swiss will be in a better position than those who took loans in euro. But I agree that we need to see what's going on with the principals, and that's actually the point. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, esteemed representative.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55867	HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55868	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues. So here I think a lot of the heated debates that we had in our first reading and extensive public debates here are now in the second reading of this law, but I must say at this point is actually unclear what we are discussing, given that before us the legal text that the minister has announced is in what is important content of this text and what is in fact the greatest point of dispute and debate. Yes, so the minister announced that there is a possibility that the text will change significantly. I think, therefore, that at this point, it is quite difficult to discuss this law, so there is nothing left but focus and concentrate on what is officially and this legislative proposal offers. I would like to remind myself that despite this last announcement that there is room possible, that amendments to this final proposal of the law will be amended, that it is in fact a legal text that has been created for more than 6 months, that the debate and consultation with the public is concluded at the end of May, and that this length of the time period in which this text is sought is changed, at least we at the HDZ club are signalling that even the promoter is not sure about the effectiveness of these solutions because we know when it is necessary and when the proposal is very safe and some solutions very much want to be adopted then these legal procedures go very quickly. However, what is really important is that many of the most important provisions of this law and the big words used to explain the effects that will arise under this law are, in fact, concealing a simple fact, which is that major effects to improve the situation of citizens are announced by significant support to those who are blocked by this law will not achieve and cannot achieve. The minister himself said in the introduction that 290,000 Croatian citizens are in a blockade and spent a lot of time talking about the fact. The fact that 290,000 Croatian citizens are in a blockade means for sure that a good part of these citizens probably ran out of work that they are unable to pay and service their obligations and their accounts neatly. And it is certainly undeniable that these 290,000 citizens deserve support. In the first place, he deserves support and support through economic policy that will bring Croatia out of the crisis, which will bring Croatia into the recovery zone, not economic policy that will continuously lead Croatia towards a deeper and deeper economic downturn. That is why this law for these 290,000 citizens, as many as the minister explains, does not bring significant improvements. It does not bring significant improvements because even if all these citizens had loans in Swiss francs, those who cannot pay their obligations because they have lost their jobs, they cannot, unfortunately, pay them in euros, neither in francs, nor in kuna. That would have made it very often and in the context of this law, and that was much better for demagogue discussions to be a real economic effort to solve problems that prevent Croatian recovery. On the other hand, the Swiss franc loan party has 56 grand. In these 290,000 blocked citizens are certainly a significant part of those who have loans in the euro and those who have housing loans in kuna. And that is the greatest pain of this law. As the promoter has said and said, as some colleagues before me have said, this law, especially if they are passed, and especially if the official proposal becomes provisions mentioned by the minister, will lead indisputable debtors in Swiss francs to a better position than those who have debtors in the euro and kuna. And that's the problem. Ministers, what will be done for debtors who have loans in euro in kunas who are equally not able to repay their loans, who are equally socially threatened because the adoption of this law in its opening provisions is justified by the social threat. And that's what you're talking about, you're talking about exactly these blockades. And the figures I've taken out show that the most incurable and certainly most of these people in the blockades are people who have loans both in kunas and in euro. In the logic of this law, they deserve certain support. As is the question that you must answer at this time. One sure way to do this is to help everyone who is the government and all of us who act in public space in an equal and equal way is to start leading economic policy in a way that will lead Croatia into recovery and that will lead Croatia to growth. For now, unfortunately ever since your government took the lead, trends have been negative. And those trends that have stabilized and those trends that showed positive indications in 2011 are then in deep minus and in deep negative territory. Unfortunately, that's what economic indicators show. Therefore, by accepting the government's good and positive intentions to address the problem of indifference, the problem of citizens' difficulty in serving their obligations, the problem of the number of citizens in the blockade, while accepting this good intention should be said, however, that this law does not make this good intention real. But this good intention can create even greater problems and can create inequality and discrimination among citizens because this law potentially helps and to some extent reduce wars for Swiss French debtors. There's a problem with what's left of the others. Similarly, if the provisions of the laws amending Article 11 or the provisions of the laws governing the way in which the interest rate is to be determined, if they were to be implemented in the way it is registered today, then there is also a real danger for some citizens who have loans in Swiss francs after the implementation of this law that interest actually increases. As likely as this danger may be, it is difficult to assess. However, we have calculations and we have examples that there are persons who have loans in Swiss francs and who have an interest rate which, following this law and these provisions, could now be increased. As a result of the proposed provisions of interest on loans in Swiss francs, it depends on the moment the loan was taken. So for all those who took credit in Swiss francs during and before 2006 there is such a danger. So, not only is this law actually discriminatory compared to those who have loans in francs and in euro in a certain way opens up space to discriminate within the same group of debtors in Swiss francs. I'm sure it wasn't for your own good. I see, Ministers, that speaking of possible new proposals, you are aware that these provisions can cause lawsuits. Because these provisions have a feedback effect. And reverse action is not allowed and is not legally acceptable. I just want to warn you that in the event of reverse action and in the case of legal provisions that ignore such simple and elementary facts, there is a possibility of a lawsuit and we have already seen such lawsuits. Croatian taxpayers have cost very much in recent years decisions that ignored the basic legal principles. I'm talking, for example. on the decisions of the Government of Ivica Racan, after which judicial executions have been paid, the value of which is measured in billions of kuna. Therefore, I think that just those examples from the government that you were vice president and for which, even today, you can come very simply to the data of how much they amounted to and the pay cuts paid against the provisions of the laws and contracts for the abolished allowances, for the protection interest, and the measures are carried out in billions of kunas. That is why I think it is very reasonable for you to consider possible different and alternative ways of formulating this article which will remove any possibility of a lawsuit if such a thing is possible at all. Therefore, I would like to underline once again that in an attempt to explain that these laws bring great benefits to citizens, it is essentially the provisions of this law that lead to the possibility of opening up a series of new and social and economic and legal problems. Legal problems with which taxpayers and citizens will suffer precisely those you care so much about on the surface. It is indisputable and necessary for the government to take care and that the government is leading its policy to benefit and protect people who are socially at risk. However, we believe that government policy must in this case go in favour of those whose daily life is at stake, who cannot perform their life functions in a normal way for themselves and for their family. And that in this case it is not important currency in which they took their loans because such persons, persons who have lost their jobs, who cannot withdraw their accounts, who cannot educate their children, deserve the help of the state both when they have loans in both euro and kuna. The second part of the law that has been discussed is the issue of maximising and limiting the maximum interest rate. The interest rate, I just want to briefly and here repeat what we said and in the first reading, the interest rate cannot be limited administratively. It is a market category, among other things, depends on the cost of borrowing paid by the state and as long as the cost of borrowing paid by our country is as it is, between 3% and 4% higher than the developed countries and as long as the state of our economy is as unfortunately the interest rates will be high. The level of interest rates is regulated by what I said at the beginning, which is an economic policy that will ensure recovery and growth. And finally, one note about the banking system. It is not good to talk about an economic branch in Croatia with this much passion and speak in such a negative context as the banking industry is talking about these days for the following reasons. Banking industry in Croatia has been entrusted by Croatian citizens with their savings and expect banks to manage the savings in a reasonable and rational way that will allow them to be paid interest and their principals to be paid at any time. Croatia's banking system Passive means resources from which Croatian banks lend loans to 14.5% are capital, and 70% are deposits. So when we talk about the banking system...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55869	Bring an end to respected MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55870	I will, Mr. President. When we talk about the banking system then we have to make sure that they manage the savings of our citizens and that they're not just some black boxes, some set of lenders. The problem is the work of the banking industry is much more complex. And finally, in the banking industry, 21730 people were employed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55871	Thank you, too. Now we're going to the replica set. The first replica, honourable representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55872	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I agree with this debate of yours about the negative passions that exist at the moment in the banking sector, but also with any private sector because this is what we are trying to believe and you as a position, especially as a government to stimulate and create competitiveness and a positive climate in relation to entrepreneurship. I disagree with you in the context of the debate that a large number of blockades of citizens and residents have nothing to do with this law, though. Over 8 billion kunas are downs after citizens' overruns, over 8 billion kunas, and over 4 billion kunas are credit cards. So this law clearly regulates the relationships and ways of overrunning the current accounts, or no more of that SMS shock, you have no further right to enter the blockade by the current account. The dignity of creditors or citizens who have a current account that uses a minus this way will be protected, it will be informed, and it will be allowed to ensure, for a year, the possibility of returning the exceeded minus, and that is one of the very important things about the blockades that the minister was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55873	Replicate response, respected representative Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55874	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Djurkovic, I remain in line with the structure, reasons and causes of these blockades that this law will not dominantly change the position of these people because the accounts of the people in the blockade cannot be paid because they have nothing to pay them with. Therefore, in order to help citizens whose accounts in the blockade need to be enabled and open the opportunity to work, they need to open up a perspective that they can find employment because the essence of this problem is that those who are socially endangered and those whose potential for basic life is threatened cannot, unfortunately, serve wars that are neither in the kuna nor in the Swiss franc nor those who are 150 nor those who are 1500. That's what this is about. This law tries to reduce some of these costs in this section of the minuses, but it will not solve the problem it has brought and that holds these blockades. That, I think, is quite clear to you. And so it's our job not to let ourselves be fooled so we can think and convince ourselves that this will solve the problem. We won't. The solution to the problem lies in the recovery of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55875	Thank you, too. A colleague's name is Gjurkovic, please respect that. His own last name Gjurkovic, right. Next replica and respected representative Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55876	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Dalic, I commend the most important part of your debate in that part while you spoke about the law, but this law can solve and it is the content of my replica, only what is the subject of this law. You're especially in this replica, but you've gone a long way before. In this area, the government has some other successes and results. We often talk about them and try to work things out and with the last sentence I agree economic growth that measures in this direction yes. But in this law, I say most of all to the public, etc. about the Swiss but he solves many other problems. First, the current accounts and the rest of the current account. You remember what noise was about restraints and media and every other one. It was a bit similar to the fiscal register and so on, that today all of us would say that this is a good solution and that, through consumer protection and current accounts, not by phone, as my predecessor said, but by 30 days or by consumer credit, we get one sobering and serious. Part two, an important part of this law is these provisions about interest limits. That's what we disagree on. I don't have time in this replica to tell you, but I will say in my individual debate. I think it takes both good and important to feel sorry for each other that way. There's no way I can be bigger than a tight interest, because in that case, we're losing the sense of this ourselves. But the foundation of my replica is what you said about discrimination against users, so credits in Swiss, kunas and euro. Unfortunately, by this law, you said solve this story, and it's up to you to say how. Maybe you can find a solution. With this law, we can't handle it. But what is important and important for the public is that everyone else who came into trouble around the kuna and around the euro came for a variety of reasons, but around the Swiss people, for years, have been paying off their loans to have a major today more than at the beginning of their loan. It's very important to say And I must commend the government's efforts to solve this problem. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] It's not the only government and you know who solves with a lex specialis like that, part of this law... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55877	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55878	Dear fellow Radjenovic, it is unfortunately so and whatever you say and however you try to explain it to those who have loans in the euro and those who have loans in kunas now probably feel pretty stupid because they are not concerned by the bill's proposal. And such discrimination among Croatian citizens is not good and it is not good that it happens in this House. And I repeat once again, the government has every obligation and the government has every intention of protecting and caring and supporting the socially endangered and I believe that this is both the goal and the task of your government. What I can't understand is why in this recognition, who are those who deserve government support only took the currency criterion in which people took the loan. I therefore propose and notice that even among those who have loans in the euro and those who have loans in kuna there are people who are socially endangered and who would also deserve their objective life opportunities to reduce interest in a certain way. I'm skeptical, and I doubt it's possible to do so by administrative measures, and that's why I'm asking the minister. The government always has social policy instruments at its disposal, has budgets, has budget expenditures.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55879	Thank you very much. There'll be more chances because it's eight replicas. Next replica and respected representative Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55880	I thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, here's my esteemed colleague. In the context of this law, you were also talking about the protection of people who have loans in euro. You have determined that this law is directed, so primarily to the protection of persons who have loans in Swiss francs. However, this law also protects people who took loans in euro because they no longer allow for the arbitrary and flat-rate withdrawal of interest rates or those loans. I had a loan in euro in my time, and the bank increased my interest rate and I felt pretty, I would say used. Now it won't be possible anymore. It is true that the effects of this law are most favourable for citizens who have loans in Swiss francs compared to those in euro, but it is natural because they were also those who found themselves in an invisible position. They are the ones who have remained in their kind of strain, and they were necessary to protect them, and I say they are protected by those who have loans in euro but not so much. When I talk about these guys who took credit in Swiss, they get kunas. The banks say they may be related to the Swiss francs but they placed these funds from the savings of citizens who are therefore either tied to the euro or are not linked to anything. They made a huge super profit of 30.40%. If I was supposed to pay back 100,000 kuna first, I now have 140,000 kuna. That without this safeguard clause in Swiss, I couldn't make such a deal. That would be a worthless contract. It would be a green contract. This is a kind of green contract license. Therefore, protection was necessary. With euro luck, it wasn't like that. So there was a minor need for intervention, but that does not mean that intervention was not necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55881	Replicate response, respected representative Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55882	Anyway, thank you, Mr. President, for reminding me to come in. Comrade Pandek, the fact that no interest rate growth will be possible now is unfortunately also one of the illusions that is trying to explain to the citizens in the context of this law, so obviously you have also accepted that illusion. This law explicitly determines that interest, meaning European interest such as Libor, Euribor, vault record or average interest on deposits and margins. I remind you of a fellow interest in Europe and the world, Euribori, Libori and similar are at historical minimums. I was also talking about it during my first reading. Today, under the company and the reasons for the great protection of Croatian citizens from the growth of interest rates, we must also say that such provisions in the law are being built on an automatic mechanism which, when interest in Europe starts to grow, will create a space for the automatic increase in interest rates. And the moment the interest rates in Europe start to grow is the moment Europe begins to recover. Thus, it is wrong to say that now it will not be possible to increase and change interest rates. Of course, they will be able to do that exactly by this automatic mechanism that is beyond the power and influence of each of us because we have put it into law. And if a vault record is selected as a background, then I'm just reminding you that, say, at the beginning of the 7th month, the Ministry of Finance paid 5% of the interest on the vault record for a year and a half, and a year of 0.9%. So you see which vault you chose.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55883	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55884	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Dalić, here I will try to look briefly at some of your words that you have spoken. First of all, I think you chose words. You said this law would not cause major effects and would not cause significant improvements. Still, we expect improvements. With regard to loans in Swiss francs, of course, I agree if the calculations are to show so that there is a danger that some even raise interest rates, however, we cannot deny the fact that the very people who have raised credits in Swiss have come to the most unfavourable position in that time. Is it by mistake, which most people say, or let's just say this, if I may, by tricking the bank, that's a whole other question, but they are in the most unfavourable position, and that's why it's not weird that this law is trying to help these people. You've extended the debate, so you said that, of course, one who doesn't have much can't pay a single interest rate. But it's not the subject of this law because the loan obligation remains, someone will pay for it, someone has to pay for it, so it was the heirs. And just what seems most important to me, and what you didn't say in your debate, that this law regulates two more areas, which is the area of credit compensation. It seems very good to me that the bank will no longer be able to charge a copy of a 20 kuna document or some similar things that come to mind and it is very good with a legal solution to what the cost of the loan is. And another thing when we're talking about insufficient communication, so here's what I'm going to say is, I'm going to be so vividly happy if the next time I walk into a bank, I notice that the pens aren't tied to the spaghetti. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55885	Thank you, too. It's not a replica. ... Did you get that? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Knock so I don't have to intervene. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55886	Dear fellow I always choose words and try to choose words in this House because I think it is a question of elementary culture and honor of speaking in the Croatian Parliament. So speaking of this law, I logically chose the words, and I also spoke the truth. Therefore, it is clear that this law will benefit debtors who have raised loans in Swiss francs or at least one part of them. That can't be challenged. The fact that I don't think it's fair in relation to those who have the euro or kuna, that I think it introduces major legal problems into our system, that I think it signals that legal certainty in us is very questionable, that I think that such provisions as they are now written make feedback is less important. If these provisions are adopted as they are, then the position will be more favourable for them. But I remind you again, there are 56 thousand games in the Swiss franc. The Swiss franc makes up about 30% of all housing loans. Both they and the majority who have loans in other currencies deserve their social status to also be considered and paid attention to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55887	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55888	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, you have opened a very good question in your debate. So, what about those who have loans in euro? Here you should surely congratulate all the citizens who founded the Association "Franak" because by association they managed to draw attention to themselves and at least partially as you say to solve a part of your problem. The other day my wife distracted me that we had a slight payoff disorder. an increase in credit annuity because we have credit to her and me in euro. And really the problem in that part is you definitely asked the question of what about those who have a loan in the euro? Perhaps in this country the only option is to establish an association or some civic initiative to see what citizens need and how they should be helped. And I wanted to ask you as a competent person to maybe answer one more question. When you spoke of Euros and Swiss francs, did you try as a real person of this profession to compare the cost of loans in euro and Swiss francs? Because I have an example of the situation that we have in Swiss credit as a legal person and we're still in a positive relationship with the fact that we had it in euro. I'm not saying that citizens have, they must have been killed and I'm glad they managed to change the law in this part. Any law that goes in favour of citizens, even if one group and a small number, and that helps a little is welcome and should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55889	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55890	Thank you very much. Well, the truth is, my colleague Hrg, so we've all been in the past, and I've had a chance to see the calculations of the parallel wars in the euro and the Swiss franc. And these calculations point to some conclusions. But I think at this point it doesn't make much sense to discuss and to say who in the past paid for what wars, how and who paid for more who paid less, we simply can't change the past. And I also think that this is the way I always try to say that we have to look forward, look for solutions in the time that we are in, but I certainly do not support these solutions to be such that they bring new problems that are greater than the problems we are trying to solve. And that's what I think this law opens. It opens up the possibility that in economic and financial space with all the consequences that this law will bring in a way of doing more problems than we have now, and one of us has confessed and mentioned it himself by the minister because it cannot be ignored because it is a fact, and one of them is that it can simply happen that banks will stop offering housing loans. Is that what we want for our citizens and generations to come? I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55891	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55892	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Dalic, I think the key thing here is to say that the course of Swiss in 2006 was about 4700 at the end of the year, and that the course of Swiss when it reached its peak was 6.6. He is now about 6,160 or so, and so whoever raised 100,000 euros in Swiss it was once 470,000 kuna, today it's 600 and something thousand kuna, and if that's what he's raised to 30 years he's practically paid about 15 thousand euros somewhere for six years, his principal in kuna today is bigger than he was at the beginning. It's the key to the whole story. And this law was supposed to help these people. And that's something that's not at all controversial. But we like to do a lot of politicizing, even though we claim that we don't, but the key thing is that the state is in charge. And we can talk whatever we want that security coefficient or whatever we want to call it in Croatia is continuous between 3 and 3.5%. Before the crisis, let's say the Slovenes had 0.75%. But what bothers me all the time is that at this point the government has a far larger lever than it had to be 1.7. By 1.7, banks' mothers were able to put pressure on the state in various ways after 1.7. The second thing is that Croatia is not honored because it has completed negotiations to join the EU at the rate of interest. And that's something that we here in the High House should all say by ruling and opposition. If we were told for 7 years that our interest rate is like that and because we haven't finished negotiations then at the moment when we finished negotiations they admitted to us that we had implemented reforms, they admitted to us and therefore they needed to reduce our interest rate and that is Mr. Minister what you need to say both you and I and everyone in Croatia because it is Croatian truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55893	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55894	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Shucker, surely you have correctly pointed out the fact of EU membership as a point that should have marked a turning point in the economic and life perspectives of every Croatian citizen. A lot of efforts have been made in the negotiations and in the EU accession process, a lot of political credibility has been made, and many difficult decisions have been made that have not even been made at certain times in favour of the HDZ which has been making them, but because of the need of the state, such coffees have been made. And I think we can proudly say that we have managed to complete the negotiations and open the EU door to Croatia. This government was supposed to continue on that path. However, the first moves that the government made after EU membership have actually been difficult to violate Croatia's credibility as new members have violated Croatia's hard credibility in the political segment, as well as in the economic segment in 2013 all data show that economic results will be far worse than planned. So the government itself said this year the deficit will be over 16 billion kuna. When we warned this spring, then the minister claimed we were scaring the public. And these 16 to 17 billion kunas mean that such a breakthrough of the planned amount never happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55895	Thank you very much. You have more replicas. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55896	And that is why these rates did not fall after EU membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55897	Thank you. And a new replica of the esteemed representative of Hrvoja Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55898	Mr. President, Comrade Dalic. So this is not only a good intention as you said it yourself. This is a concrete legislative proposal that will certainly help and make it easier for debtors to know very well that they welcome and expect this solution anyway. So this is just one of a series of measures that this government is taking and is doing to facilitate the existential problems of all Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55899	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55900	Thank you very much. You told your colleague that this was one of a series of measures that the government is making to facilitate the position of debtors in Swiss francs. Now I'm trying to determine and remember what that sequence is doing. So it occurs to me that this sequence makes a VAT increase of 2%, a zero rate increase of 5%, an announcement... Yes, percentage points, percentage points, announced that as one of the first measures for the resolution of the situation and the situation after Croatia enters the excessive deficit procedure, taxes will rise again. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Increase in electricity prices, increase in energy prices. These are things that come to mind as components of this sequence that you mention. I'm trying to think of some other measures that might be positive. But when I look at the statistics, I see that yesterday there were 50,000 unemployed more than a year ago, that industrial production was in September 4.3% lower than in August, that GDP fell. Therefore, I find it very difficult to identify this series of measures that the government has made to help Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55901	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Boric and a new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55902	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Dalic, you gave a different picture in your discussion than the one we heard from the promoter. She's standing there, too. And I have to say in the beginning that I'm afraid of every law that comes here in a way that presents itself as revolutionary or as some new justice, so here we have singled out a group to which we want to show great care and to sort out all these problems that are bothering them. And for everyone else, let them get along or wait for some new association that will be called the euro or the kuna or it doesn't matter. I think that's a good thing and you've given it a good warning. But here's the story, so here we finally have current accounts. No one can send you any more, no one can send you a text message, so please return the money. And what the state does when it blocks. Do we get a text? Do we get a FINA text saying we're blocked? ... So when is the state due, do we get a text? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I don't. Then there are other rules. Are we allowed to do this in a society where we talk so much or do we want it to be placed on some kind of market, legal basis? So when the state needs them to block you, you have no right to pay off your debt to the wars. Especially not a pensioner who lost even a post office or something where he could turn to someone where he could get to this FINA at all. They take his entire pension. But when you have to return the minus then text but now you'll be able to go to war. I think that justice still needs to put you a little bit different. That's why I don't believe in the great effects of this law even though it can be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55903	Thank you very much for the reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55904	Comrade Boric, the laws that have no effect make no sense to support them. So laws that have no effect and laws that we know in advance that the effect won't have, then I don't think we need to support them. In fact, what I wanted to replicate to you is something that has already appeared several times and what the minister himself mentioned, and that is the question of this communication between the banks and their clients. And it's also also a good-looking example of how they appear that we all use in real life, then in this political life we distort them and make them demagogy. Namely, banks are notifying clients as sms but still need to be objective and say that each of the bank's clients had the opportunity to choose the way the bank would communicate with him. And the bank is that that's what the wider front would communicate with its clients then offer papers, internets, e-mails, text messages. So that's why you should say that text communication is happening, too, and it's probably chosen by those who have received such text messages. And the story is actually around the city that this problem with the way banks communicate with their clients actually came about because one of the finance officials received from his bank text. Probably because before that with that same bank He said he wanted to text him. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55905	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of replicas and responses to the replica. On behalf of the promoter, respected Slavko Linic, Minister of Finance, please welcome the respected ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55906	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, let me look back on some of the club talk. There is no need to be burdened with an amendment that if the government assesses that they will give before the vote you will discuss, we know how the debate on government amendments is going before the law itself. But obviously we've fallen into a bank trap that discusses this law and brings it down to Swiss. And it's not a debate about Swiss, it's a debate about protecting citizens about the self-will of banks. What I have to say is a surprise to me, but here we see how different we are as parties. In Europe consumer protection is very important, protection from the banking sector you can read this morning how many penalties are going to European banks for incorrect business. Yes, Europe punishes banks, it will punish these in Croatia if they behave the same way. So we have entered Europe, it is normal for the European Commission, the European Council, the European Parliament to protect consumers from banks in Europe. In Croatia, we differ. The government, the coalition, most in the Parliament thinks the same thing. HDZ Club doesn't think so. The banks are in danger. That's what I figured out from exposure. So I want to go back again, this law is called the Consumer Protection Act, but through the Consumer Credit Act. According to what we're saying here, there will be no more will to determine the fees. That's to avoid saying, we're not going to say that that 1/3 credit costs were and that you had expenses that had nothing to do with closed credit contracts. This is about the maximum interest rate. As you can see, HDZ is worried there will be no more credit. No, gentlemen, no, each of you in Croatia who is creditworthy to go to the European Bank, to our neighbouring regions, will go, will be in charge because they will have their collaterals, will have their own safety, but we will no longer allow too much interest costs because that is why we talked about the figures. If we have 10, 11, 12% interest rate, answer me who will repay the loan in 30 years at such an interest rate. Yeah, that's the government's job. That's what we've brought a limit to. So if the banks in Croatia won't credit elsewhere they will because you can move throughout the domestic market, which is the European market. And here it is very clear, we want to protect citizens from the excessive interest rate and we want to maximise those interest rates. It's the most important provision in this law. And we also want to stop madness from pushing citizens into consumption without any restrictions, without any control, and then we have accumulated losses. Therefore, the law speaks of how citizens are protected and there is no telling whether they are Swiss, whether they are Euros, whether they are kunas, no, they are all tried... and we are dealing with citizens, not Swiss. It's a fundamental feature of this law. We're only saying about a formula that doesn't talk about Swiss people, it's talking about 20% devaluations, 20% of the growth rate differences, but it can be tomorrow and the euro, it can be the Norwegian crown, the dollar. Yeah, we're talking about them, about those who go over 20%. You'll let me, everyone's inside, everyone, all the possible debts and currencies that citizens can have, but that's where we put the limit. I was expecting if you were showing so much concern...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55907	Thank you. Thank you very much, Minister. We have replicas. The first replica and respected representative of Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55908	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, it is not true that this law protects citizens from the will of banks because it defines the way in which a variable interest rate is determined. The way in which a variable interest rate is established is already established by the existing law, Article 11a of the existing law, which also mentions the risk premium of the Republic of Croatia as an integral part of the existing law. I wouldn't go further into techniques about this risk premium, but it's actually one of the key issues and the problems of this change. Mr. Minister, it is not the solution for Croatian citizens to go to European countries to seek loans because there is a Croatian banking system there is a banking system in which 21700 Croatian citizens work, so there are their families. So I object that any industry operating in Croatia is spoken of in such a scary way because it is economically irrational. And as for 20% of the exchange rate difference, we haven't talked about it, but what is and how these 20% are determined. And what about 19.9 for example, so that 20% is an arbitral number that is determined is not known in which way but obviously if it's 19.9 then nothing, and the law doesn't say anything about what happens when the foreign currency rate weakens. What happens then? What will happen when the course of a particularly Swiss franc weakens and then the banks raise interest rates so much that they compensate for all existing losses and should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55909	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected Finance Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55910	I'm talking about the quality of this law, and I made it very clear what we're regulating. You haven't looked back on one word. You tried to say that the maximum interest rates will cause Croatia's citizens to get no credit, and I'm ordering you all get credits because your market is no longer just a Croatian market. Your market is all over Europe, and the banking system in Croatia needs to be competitive. He needs to be competitive and he needs to protect the citizens. And no one will go to Europe at that moment. So what I'm saying is don't scare the citizens. This law will protect you from too much interest and from the banking system if it is irresponsible. If he's competitive, you won't have to go to Europe. But otherwise you'll all be able to borrow, you'll all be able to get interest as acceptable but you won't be slaves. That's what we're different about. And that is the important difference between the government's proposal and the protection of the Croatian banking system which has not shown enough responsibility, has not shown and we differ. HDZ stands in defense of the banking system with everything, all the findings we've heard from that banking system that hasn't shown enough cooperation on this law. And maybe it's my responsibility to waste too much time communicating with that. But it's okay, we can be guilty of it, but at least we're different in something. The protection of citizens and government concerns that banks are correct in their relations in the banking system. It's this bill of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55911	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55912	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I don't understand why you want to bring this debate down to black and white. You yourself admitted in your final section that this was how you talked to the bankers and that it came in gray. So, this debate is not black and white at all, and no one in HDZ nor in replicas, nor in the debate, Dalic said that HDZ is afraid that banks are threatened, but we simply warned of some things, gave our arguments. You can and cannot agree with them. It's also a purely rhetorical question to you, not a political question, and don't realize it's politicizing. If you said you promised that Croatian citizens could go all over Europe and charge themselves at lower interest rates, then why don't you do it and don't charge the state at lower interest rates. So these are the facts, Mr. Minister. And we can fight here, blame each other as much as we want. However, we have the reality that we have. And the debate on behalf of the club and all the debates here that are going to be in this section are going towards us giving our opinion, perhaps to come up with a better and even better solution. Well, you yourself have to admit that you and the interest rate and this and that didn't have a lot of problems, either in agreement with the banking sector or with anyone. There was a compromise very soon. This 20% extreme question is whether it's going to happen. But don't forget that the Croatian state has fallen on some exchange rate differences for the bonds it issued in Japan in 2002 for almost $25 million because the course fell. So you have some extreme stuff. But let's talk about the law, not about being against citizens and protecting banks, and someone protecting citizens and against banks is. Let's talk about this law that if any anomalies happen to try to prevent them and let's see how we can really help the citizens in Swiss. Is this a reduction in interest rate real help If their principal is five years older than she was when we took the loan. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55913	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55914	Well, in the HDZ club debate, I didn't notice any suggestions, no suggestions. In fact, grades don't need anything like that. I look back at the debate I heard, not the senses, nothing else. So, if we had any debate on the law itself, let's try to determine what the problem is with these provisions of the law. So, I haven't heard any problem with the height of the maximum interest, or the problem with the tight interest, or the question of what with the fees, I haven't heard any remarks about the overrun on the current accounts. So that's the law. I haven't heard anything about that. No, we hear citizens' imbalances because we treat those citizens who have devaluations, who have exchange rates above 20% that it's unfair that we want to take care of them. That's what we're estimating. We estimate that the banking system is the one that is offended, injured. In that communication, we were irresponsible, we don't protect them, we scare the citizens. You're afraid they won't be in charge of Croatia, because the maximum interest is regulated. So I'm just looking back at the debates that are ahead of us. However, I would be held if you suggested that the average interest without any growth be the maximum interest, I would be happy. I'd be happy if you suggested that the current account and the overrun be back in two years. Yeah, I didn't hear anything about it. And the same thing when we finally talk about overruns in an account that are not subject to interest that's the subject of some other debate, so we're going to be in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55915	Thank you very much. We will now continue the debate and the next speaker will be on behalf of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55916	Here is Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with co-workers, MPs and MPs. We at the HDSSB club have provided support regardless of what we are in opposition to all those solutions, the legislative solutions for which we have assessed that they are in the interest of Croatian citizens and in the interest of Croatian society. We have also criticised and criticised everything we believe is not in the interest of Croatian citizens and does not contribute to the improvement of Croatian citizens or Croatian society. From the beginning, so even before this law appeared we as a club and as a political party supported the general initiative that Croatian citizens who are overindebted, who are over-indebted with very high interest, different tools try to help overcome this recession period in which today is the Croatian State. And as we have provided support when it comes to a pre-profit settlement because we also felt that the responsible state must assume certain methods of responsibility for the fate of tens of thousands of people who have been threatened with loss of business and, in practice, the failure of several segments of the Croatian economy, and in the case of the Consumer Credit Act, our support is present. So, total on the idea. When it comes to this pre-fashion deal, we are also calling on you to continue to amend and supplement the law as soon as possible, because what we are now facing and it is evident that certain debtors through related societies are pumping up fictitious claims. And that's a serious problem now. We have several large debtors who are currently inflating claims through tied societies and in fact intend to free themselves of debt, what they owe to the debtors and keep ownership structure through these fictitious claims. I note that it is not only a matter of accepting or rejecting these claims made through related societies but also of counterfeiting and invoices that are not criminal acts. Therefore, I think that there is an additional need in that part to actually be sharpened and see not only that some claims are accepted or not accepted but that they are done by what some societies are expressing. And in order to further sharpen the tools for these claims that are beginning to arise through the Pre-demand settlement Act. We have the State's Attorney's Office, and we have the State's audit, so some other competent authorities might be able to deal with this claim that's been made. And even when it comes to the pre-profit settlement of our grief in Požega-Slavon County and especially in the cities of Lipik and Pakrac the fact that it was rejected, we rejected the pre-fashion deal for ZRC Lipik where the Ministry of Finance represented the Croatian government rejected the plan since we had a letter of intent from an English investor. We don't know, there's no explanation, and if there's nothing else, it'd be good for such rejections to give a broader explanation publicly to present itself to the interested public. Because it's actually a public interest, it was that there was a potential investor, that the state was by far the greatest believer and tomorrow or the day after that ZRC Lipik went into bankruptcy states at best in the next 10 years would charge a few million through real estate sales. And I say there was a letter from a potential investor about investment. Therefore, I think that such events, which are in debt of 400 and some million kunas, I think that there should only be more than notice that a proposal has been rejected or accepted in the Prophets' Assembly. Now let me get back to this law. So we do not, in any case, consider banks operating in the region of the Republic of Croatia to be neither opponents nor enemies nor entrepreneurs nor citizens. These banks are a necessary partner for both the state and business and Croatian citizens. The realisation of profits is their perfectly legitimate right and we really have nothing against their actions or their employees or their profits. But what we all notice is that the problem, that the problem is that, with regard to the bank and the citizens, is that David is simply there in the face of Goliath and the establishment of some contractual obligations between the two so-called so-called. "partner" is very there is actually this David of ours in a very unfavourable position. Therefore, what this law may still have some added measures that need to actually balance this relationship and put in a better position for one who makes a deal with the bank. We welcome those measures in the law relating to the transfer of a certain burden on the costs of the Swiss franc's appreciation in the previous period to banks. We also welcome the definition of instruments for determining interest rates. We also welcome the limitation of the maximum interest rate on consumer loans and the increased liability of banks to define the costs and instruments to determine the interest rates. What seems a little strange to us is the amendment proposal. So there are two amendments that should be held today at a meeting of the Government that have not been delivered to us as representatives, which relate precisely to the amendments and additions to this law. If I can print them on the Croatian Parliament's website in PDF and we are holding a debate today, it is somewhat illogical, perhaps this debate should have been moved another day. So it's about two very important amendments that I'm guessing when you finance ministers give to the government that you kind of agreed to them. So these two amendments refer to the following. The first amendment refers to detimulating the conversion of the rest of the credit into a less risky currency, in fact, that amendment will force those who had loans in Swiss francs to make the conversion of credit and that they cannot remain in Swiss francs. And the second amendment that comes to the government today, and I tell all of us is available on the websites but is not in the Croatian Parliament, which I do not like, which refers to defining the maximum allowable interest rates on consumer loans. Therefore, in the 5th month announcements this year, the maximum allowed interest rate on housing loans would be one percentage point above the average rate published by the CNB in the annual report. After that, we have in this bill that the maximum interest rate on housing loans will be one third of the amount of that average interest rate published by the CNB in its annual report. In this proposal in the Government that will be today, we have a new definition of the maximum interest rate on housing loans where the maximum allowed interest rates on housing loans are defined as the average weighted interest rates on the credits granted in the Republic of Croatia for each of the currencies increased by one-third. So for especially these three groups of credit products loans in Swiss francs, euro loans and kuna loans. Will this weighted interest rate to be published by the CNB be equal to that average interest rate of 5.37 as published by the CNB in the 2012 report? We'll see about that. I'm afraid it's going to be much bigger, it's going to be different for each of these three loan groups because here we knew what we were voting for. So when it comes to this present proposal, we voted that the maximum housing loan can also be the maximum allowed interest rate can be maximum by one third higher than 5.37 as much as it was in the HNB 2012 report, which determined the maximum interest rate for housing loans at around 7.14. I no longer know what we're voting on with this proposal, and I personally have no idea how much these rates will be published by the CNB, and I'm afraid there's no trust in the CNB, and I'm afraid that these average weighted interest rates will be significantly higher than what they published in the 2012 report and will then be bitten by a donkey wolf. I hope that's not the way it's gonna be. We, as a club, have also given one amendment, that amendment has not yet been received. In the framework of the Rules of Procedure, given that we had to give the amendment only we can give an amendment to those articles that change, we have put it as Article 11.d, although we do not really mind if the Proposer accepts it on which we would be very grateful to install or process it in any other article if possible. And our amendment referred to the following as payment of the loan. So at this point, all banks usually only offer through consumer credit payments in annuities. It is our proposal to allow consumers or consumers of consumer credits to offer them banks on the same terms, at the same rate of payment either through anunities or wars. For those of you who don't know what it's about just to say briefly what it's about. So annuity if the monthly war is 100 euros per month for 100 months then figuratively in the 1st month you will pay off 1 euro of capital and 99 euros of interest, in the 2nd month of 2 euros of principal and 98eur of interest, so there will be a sequence of payments to the anuities. In the course of payments to the war, the principal amount to be paid has been divided equally throughout the credit repayment period. So it's a payment to the wars at the same interest rate, and the interest is calculated differently. She's the highest in the first month and she's slowly shrinking through payment. The advantage of this model is that one who repays a loan at the same interest rate by paying for a war in the total amount pays for a lower amount of credit added and, on the other hand, that equally pays for the principal which is not the case by paying on annuities. And if there's a period where there's a possibility of early repayment of the loan in payments to the wars, he's paid off more honestly than he's ever taken. The negativity of paying off to war is certainly that the first war is the biggest war against this first war is determined by the credit ability, so it is greater first wars are greater than all those average wars in annuities. However, the idea of the amendment is simply to put into a level playing field for banks to commit themselves to offering citizens both the possibility of paying off loans under the same conditions, so it is further a matter of agreement and whether the conditions that a citizen must meet are met so that such credit can be raised in the first place and the way they will repay it. Second, that this model is applied retrogradely and that all other credit users are allowed for the remaining amount of the principal if they were not allowed to allow the bank to choose whether or not the remaining amounts of credit will be paid through annuities or wars. We think that this can be done without any more significant problems, and that in a certain part of the citizens it could help to pay off loans better. That's a suggestion. I say we would be grateful if it was possible to take it even if not in this article 11d in any other article. We had to propose it as 11.d due to business restrictions. As for the notice by HUB of the Croatian Banks Association that it will lose or lose around 760 million kuna should be noted that the net interest income of banks, hence the net interest income of banks, according to the CNB report last year was 10 billion 570 million kuna. So they will out of these 10 billion and 570 million kunas if they lose 700 million kuna by applying this law, it is 6% to 7% of their net income. Afterwards, reservations, expenses and others are refused, and a profit comes in terms of banks shown 2 billion and 740 million kunas in the past year. So we think that banks will certainly endure, that these changes will help citizens, but we are not sure what the goal is and what is the reason why the proposal for maximum interest rates is further worsening. We think that this present proposal was in the interest of the consumer rather than that proposal that we see today will be in the government. In any case, as far as the HDSSB club is concerned, we generally support the idea of helping citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55917	Thank you very much. We have three replicas on your exhibit. The first is the respected representative of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55918	My colleague Đurović, you are very professional, even though you were a doctor, a surgeon like me, talking about consumer loans, about the relationship between credit-user banks, and clearly the Government of the Republic of Croatia. However, I must point out that what you have said in some ways is that it is essential that the Croatian National Bank maintains the exchange rate only in relation to the euro and not in relation to other currencies. And that's because all the savings run and shows in euros. You're actually protecting yourself, protecting the banks, not the citizens, not the people. That's why bonding with another currency is actually more risky or risky. The banks know that too, the Croatian National Bank knows that, but not all citizens know that. Why is the Croatian National Bank allowed to risk banks, or to raise loans in other currencies? So, citizens are pretty under-informed about it, but those who need to worry about it and know everything are actually a little secret. That this is what I am told and some news from the field where citizens are being informed now, before this debate on banks, anonymous tip-offs from banks whose committees or debtors are on the loans they fear, scare citizens about the change that will result from the arrival or adoption of this legislative proposal. These notices are not signed, no one has signed them, they even say that the documents, that this document contains confidential information, we suggest that you treat them in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55919	Thank you very much. Here will be answered by the distinguished representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55920	Thank you. Yeah. At this point, when it comes to the Swiss franc at this point, it is estimated that there will be some milder or stronger depreciation of the Swiss franc, so it would be interesting whether these banks, which were lending in Swiss francs 10 years ago, would be willing to give today at the same interest rate as the same credit. That would be interesting and I don't think they'd be ready. In any case, once again I say, banks have their legitimate interests, it is up to us, and business interests, so it is up to us, we are the ones who have to regulate relations in such a way that Croatian citizens really do not be cut goods. And that if someone had raised, or sheep for a haircut, if someone had raised a housing loan and paid it off for the next 30 years for their apartment, it's already that real estate, new real estate, we see that real estate fell by 20, 30% the value of real estate. And these people are sick of being... Real estate was actually cheaper than it was when they took out the loan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Em's interest on housing loans further increased and if more credit in the Swiss franc and also currency, so the currency actually boosted the war, his salary fell, the recession was long-term. It is therefore our responsibility for both the Government and the Croatian Parliament to actually act to provide Croatian citizens with some kind of fairer and more sustainable situation because the total Croatian society and Croatian citizens are absolutely overindebted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55921	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55922	Thank you very much. You told your colleague Đurovic that everything was in the interest of a healthy banking system. Of course, I'm the last one to allow the stability of the banking system to be compromised, but also the first to stand up to anyone, even if the banking system threatens the dignity of man and the existence of man. And that's what's happening. This bill was exclusively created as a phenomenon of so-called law. The Swiss franc and I understand the desire to help, and will certainly help those in charge and future in charge but will not solve the essential problem. Namely, the Swiss franc and the foreign exchange clause is common, it protects against currency risk but when it comes to the Swiss franc the bank had nothing to protect itself from. They don't have Swiss francs, they don't have risks. So it's not a currency clause, it's a speculative clause. These loans could have tied up equally, it would have been almost the same as if they had tied them either in Swiss francs or at the price of Swiss chocolate Milka. The banks have neither Swiss nor Swiss francs. That's why the CNB had to prevent a speculative clause. The regulatory body must be preventive. But it's gone. They allowed it to become lifeless, to become inadmissible, to become immoral, to become moral. That's inadmissible. But they also allowed the banks to borrow only three companies with five billion kunas that were completely non-chargeable and thus endangered the entire rest and these in Swiss francs. I understand anyone who has difficulties but is still easier to be a banker in Croatia than an entrepreneur and is easier to be a banker than a credit user in banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55923	Thank you very much. The respected representative Drazen Djurovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55924	I agree with you in this debate. In the end, we see that the CNB practically didn't give at all... Neither this, nor the public debate, let alone the initiator of any solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have the Croatian National Bank both under the previous governor and under the current governor who does not participate in any way in solving this problem of the Croatian state. This monetary authority is neither more serious about recession nor showing any desire. So she runs a conservative, very conservative policy. This conservativeism is primarily reflected in the protection of its own interests by the bank itself and in the interests of all other banks, and this more or less ends the role of the CNB. So he does not participate at all as a lever of the Croatian state, let alone as some developmental lever or lever that might notice that actually whoever fills this entire banking industry are actually Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurship, not banks. They don't charge banks, they fill. So I'd like to take it personally, we had a discussion about the CNB report late in the evening a few days ago. So is this the time when the discussion of the CNB and, of course, when the governor of the CNB cannot find time to come to the Croatian Parliament once a year? It also speaks of how much this governor of the CNB actually holds to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55925	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the respected representative of Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55926	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Djurovic, you said in the opening part of your debate that you had no objection to banks making profits, so that is their legal right. I agree with you. It is indeed their legal right, but that is why they were founded. But isn't it unusual for banks in Croatia to make a high profit, and on the other hand their domicile bank, the mother banks in their domicile states, such as Intesa Sao Paolo or Unicredit, so the mothers of our two largest banks in Zagreb and Privredna make their losses. So the losses are also made by banks in our environment, in Serbia, for example, in BiH. We're the only ones who wonder what's been going on here lately, the bank's profits have been going down for the last year. So there can't be good banks if it's an economy and it's hard for citizens. Finally, the mandatory relationship law says that all the negative risk of a job cannot fall on the back of just one contractual party. In this particular case, when we talk about loans in Swiss only on the back of our citizens, i.e. the user of credit. So this risk problem must be shared, and this is exactly what this legislative proposal is about to address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55927	Thank you very much. They will respond to the replica, the respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55928	I think we totally agree. I wanted to say something else, and it seems to me that the minister doesn't really resist enough of the pressures that have occurred because he actually reternated from 5 months to today, and instead of the maximum interest rate being as announced as a 1% point of credit from the one that the CNB has shown for housing loans, we've come to 1/3 of the CNB's report, so now we're coming to the government's amendment to 1/3 of the average weighted interest rates separately for contracts in kunas without currency clauses in euro, Swiss francs. I am therefore afraid that the very interests of the banking industry are being reduced, and on the other hand we all know, and we can all be very easily convinced that these average interest rates in the Republic of Croatia are twice as much as in the European Union countries, but there is no need to exculpate the CNB and those instruments and those costs and everything that the CNB has actually additionally set up in these banks and, in some ways, slowly and it actually pushes them towards higher interest rates with its own measures. That's why I said that this CNB has to participate, too. He's not a separate facility. He took a very significant part in both forming and creating these interest rates through these burdens that he actually sets before the banks. That is why it would be good for the CNB to say what it thinks it actually helps to reduce the total interest rates for Croatian citizens. And as far as HDSSB's Club of Representatives is concerned, we would have been most fortunate to have remained exactly on that original idea that the maximum interest rate on housing loans would be only a 1% point above the average of which the CNB shows in its report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55929	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the respected Finance Minister Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55930	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a brief review of the club's debate. We are pleased that you have accepted the solutions that are proposed in the amendments and additions to the Law itself. What will be the reason for the changes and the addition is to clarify our relations with the National Bank because the data that speak about the average interest rates achieved must nevertheless be provided by the National Bank. What we're going to do is we're going to give you very clear information that is the average rate achieved in the last year so there's no question of how much this difference is compared to what was published in the latest CNB report. They will therefore be responsible for the data, they collect them, and they are the only ones who are relevant to publicly publish that data. That's why we accepted that formula. The amendment will be divided during the day because the cabinet session is over, but we will discuss it in the vote itself so that we will then have more opportunities to declare the amendment, acceptance or refusal so that we have enough time to discuss it in that part. We're kind of trying to protect citizens in relation to the banking system here. It is a practice of the European Union, and as you can see, this is already in our mandate a second amendment to the law where we are tightening the relationship between or controlling the relationship between banks and citizens. If he had been correct and quality, these amendments would not have happened. But as I can see, the basic problem is interest, interest control, some interest reduction if the devaluation above 20% is insufficient. Yes, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not only changed the consumer credit law, so I remind you that we have changed the rule of blocking accounts. If you remember, 100% of citizens' income could have been blocked, yes. 100%, because it's in court decisions, and it's also in the contracts of bankers who set the clause to grant approval to block 100 percent of it was common practice. The finance ministry has changed that provision over the past years, so we said it could be blocked to give one third independently of the signed contracts and the court rulings could only apply to one third. Therefore, two-thirds of the income cannot be taken away from citizens because they need it for some way of life and the rest. It's also a decision to protect the citizens from signing because they were forced to sign it, and they were forced to sign it. Let's move on. I repeat, the state has processed a huge number of demands and we have refinanced the citizens' debts according to the state budget, and we have written off a good portion of the interest. But the new Bill on Profit Tax will make you see that we allow banks to base their tax base as a deductible item all write-offs towards citizens and those written-offs that the National Bank imposes on them as risky payments to the economy. Once again, we give up income in the state budget and in favour of banks only to reduce its claims, in order to unreal claims write off to make it easier for citizens, and at that moment it is also a deductible item for them to pay less taxes. We didn't sleep. We solve that part, too. And we are convinced that a good part of the claims that are unrealistic, uncharging banks will write off to use that convenience and reduce their tax liability, and that is again the contribution of the state. It is again the contribution of citizens to sort of paying those who can't pay for problems. All of these are measures that are in some way aimed at resolving the indifference of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55931	Thank you very much. Here's your exposure. It's caused a few replicas. The first is those respected MPs, Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55932	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I would like to correct your incorrect claim and it concerns the question of determining the height and income that can be blocked. Therefore, the regulation and the law establishing the amount of income that cannot be blocked has been established by the Law on the conduct of money. By virtue of the Act on the implementation of the financial assets transferred in FINA, a regulation was adopted establishing in early 2011 that one third of the salary was excluded from the implementation and that maternity benefits, social assistance and similar special income were excluded from the application. Therefore, if we are already talking about the protection of citizens and the clear definition that banks cannot carry out the total salaries and special, special incomes that citizens receive, then it is settled before your term of office. And as for the reservation of low-cost banks as a tax deduction, that provision has always existed and there is also no innovation introduced by your government. This is a question of international accounting standards and how banks determine profits everywhere in the world and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55933	Thank you very much. The respected Minister Slavko Linic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55934	What do you say? As you can see, the HDZ government has handled everything. But then you have to explain to me why the banks blocked the full income of citizens and on the basis of social contributions. Why? Because citizens have signed a contract that's a license to block their assets. So your provisions weren't applied at all, they weren't applied, they were lettered on paper, but the characteristics of HDZ were that what it was on paper was not implemented. It's not... My dear Madam Representative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what I'm saying is very clear. Not to complete changes in 2012 we gave protection to both pensioners and citizens and said very clearly that no signature can derivate those rules. Yeah, it was brought in in 2012 but it doesn't matter. I'll be glad to say it another time and what you've been through. Speaking of international standards. No, no one is allowed to write off as a deductible item for paying taxes. This is what we now offer to do to banks because obligations must be paid to the total results achieved, and the write-offs are the problem of each individual legal entity. So it's something that's only being negotiated at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55935	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55936	Thank you very much. Minister Linic, you were also talking about the role of the CNB. But it should be distinguished when it is the role of the CNB when it comes to the Swiss franc and the bonding of credit in the Swiss franc compared to all others. In fact, by binding credit to the Swiss francs, both banks and committees are at risk, credit users. But it's not a commercial risk, it's not a business risk. It's a speculative risk. It also endangers the banking system. The protection of the CNB is the elimination of speculation and risk from the banking system. She had to prevent it and still has to ban the lending in Swiss francs because there are no Swiss francs in effect, no passive, no savings, no exist. What are they, what are they protecting themselves from? From something that doesn't exist. Where are the Swiss francs? There's no word in the CNB's report on them. It's a virtual category, by the way. That is why it is the intention of the CNB, which has seconded everything that has happened negatively and thus brought and threatened the lives of many business bank committees to introduce the euro as soon as possible and to cover everything that has been done and wrongly done. But it's not snowing to cover the hill, it's also the CNB that doesn't want to introduce the euro to make it an economic purpose, but to cover the tracks. But they won't be able to cover them, and eventually they'll see what their role was in everything and especially in the Swiss franc. And I ask you, as Minister of Finance, to intervene and influence in the future to negotiate in a currency that is not available. Let them announce how effective Swiss francs are in Croatian currency. And they'd ban it if they'd made a deal with Milka. They'd ban it, right now, because it would be inadmissible. It's the same as I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55937	Thank you very much. The respected Minister Slavko Linic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55938	I have to agree with your discussion, the Swiss francs introduced some banks to get as many committees as possible and to sell a product that was somewhat risky. All the experts in the banks knew what the risks were, they knew. They tried with the National Bank and stopped the product because they estimated it would bring damage to both the banking system and the citizens. The National Bank didn't do anything, it's true. And at that moment when you're offering a better product, so you don't run out of profits, you don't run out of committees, you don't run out of profits, they're all on their way to offering that product. It was basically all a risk to the burden of citizens. And what was then the problem was that they also lifted their interest margins when they had already taken damage to the burden of the citizens. Yeah, the National Bank was supposed to do something that we can agree on. She didn't, she put a bad product on the market. Who pays the price? Citizens of Croatia and a good part of the economy, good part. In all of this, the government is now trying to find certain solutions. We don't stick to drunk Swiss because we say such a bad product can turn up again. We stick to the 20% devaluation provision. Is that a good provision? Well, I see no one suggested anything else. It could have been 30% and 10%, that it was some kind of measure that we took to protect and propose it with this law. We'll see if she's okay. But that's why there's no HDZ debate that doesn't need to worry. If the National Bank isn't, this government has to.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55939	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55940	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Listen to fellow Linic at the time when the finance minister took her for the right to criticise something that the CNB did or did not God touch the banks then it was blasphemous and even from this part of the assembly. And that's when the Swiss expansion started. I'm glad that we agreed in the first part that I, as a minister from this booth, warned that anything that is extremely high and low tomorrow could cause problems. However, what I would like to say is that everyone in some segment of work when he discovered certain anomalies at the banks was trying to solve it. Therefore, all those contracts that until the entry into force of the Executive Act had that it could practically be completed the full amount had ceased to apply. But you remember that at a time and that former state couldn't make more than a third of the salary for anything. And as far as booking for bad bills is concerned, they're the cost. And they've always been according to the IRS. And when you look at CNB controls in business banks if some loan supply, real estate is not at the level at which the bank showed it at a far lower amount and changes the bank's balance on that basis. You know as well as I do, that many banks have changed balances year after year. So, if you're doing it with some special law, you're still strengthening the IRS squad, that's okay. However, I am still a supporter of what I was saying and when I spoke about the write-off of interest and reprogrammes, etc. That is why we introduced the OIB to see a blood image of Croatian citizens and Croatian companies. I'm an opponent to write off someone who has property, he's not a social case. The government needs to intervene in the case of a social programme, so to the one who is at risk of life and its existence, then the government needs to react. However, if someone has property, let’s not disrupt the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55941	The respected Minister Slavko Linic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55942	The law as a law is written for all Croatian citizens, so we have given each citizen the opportunity to settle his obligations to the Republic of Croatia when we talk about their tax debts. Their tax debts relate mostly to closed trades. There is no charge for one-off tax. Closed turns, failed. Therefore, the question remains whether or not they want to close the debt to the state? We estimate that one of the ideas was the write-off of interest to make it easier. We weren't looking, and there's no real estate censorship in there, there isn't one. When we talk about other citizens who were not craftsmen, the majority refers to unpaid real estate taxes. They sell, they don't pay taxes, they buy so if they were bonders, they don't pay taxes. Yes, and in that part we went to regulate their obligation to pay. And it wasn't a real estate criterion, it wasn't. She could have been. But there's something else, at this point the Tax Administration is doing well with the OIBs, putting them into function and acquisition of property. And that means we try to see if the citizens asking for a write-off, whether the citizen who's an entrepreneur goes into a pre-war deal is creating an asset he didn't pay taxes on. So thanks to the system that you started, we've completed it completely, we're slowly getting a complete blood count of every taxpayer. The person who paid taxes on his incomes can sleep peacefully and create property. Very restless one who illegally without payment acquired any property. Therefore, through the second law, we will resolve tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55943	Thank you very much. The last replica will be the esteemed representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55944	Thank you. Mr. Minister, when it came to the CNB when it was voted on the election of the new governor of the CNB we voted abstentionally the only one I remember and then we felt that the Labourists were against saying then we felt that the simple continuation of that coffee policy was as monetary as it was led would not allow this legislative executive authority to leave Croatia out of recession. The full responsibility of you, your government and your majority is not only then the choice of governors but also the way the CNB function and all those criticisms that we share together sometimes in the functioning of the CNB, of course, no man in any political party can change everything, so that the president of that party is also, let alone when he is not president of that party. However, simply you can and we can change something with this law but I still think that the gravity of some other things should be thrown right at the CNB and that not all ways of leading the monetary policy can be avoided from the responsibility of the CNB. Will you be prepared for your term of office I do not know, as your predecessors were not prepared for their term of office with the previous governor? I hope that at least you will push some change when it comes to the way the CNB works and Croatian monetary policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55945	Thank you very much. Here will be answered by the Honorable Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55946	Thank you very much. Our legal system is very clear, fully independent of the CNB when it comes to monetary policy and supervision of the banking system, and in that part, the fiscal government, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is not involved. I wouldn't want to talk about human resources and choices. Less or more of the good part of the CNB Act is fully in line with European legislation and this independence is something that no one in the jurisdiction of the fiscal authority can touch. This is why we deal only with consumer loans, interest and bank labour costs linked to citizens. We can't even deal with economic operators because it's economic operators who have to protect themselves, unlike citizens. Everything else is the full independence of the National Bank. At this point, we need to understand that the National Bank has its own strong controller, which is the European Central Bank, which will try very hard to reconcile all the relations between the national banks, so I believe that certain gaps that are at the Swiss level can be freely concluded will be very careful not to happen. Therefore, by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we still want to be separate from monetary policy and their responsibility is that it means respect for the laws that we have passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55947	Thank you very much. We will now continue the debate, and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSU, the distinguished representative, Željko Šemper, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55948	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Consumer Credit Act is an extremely important law for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. It will ultimately regulate the business relationship between creditors and creditors in a fairer, more moral and fairer way. In particular, this applies to the protection of a weaker partner on the user of credit that will receive additional protection, and when taking credit, better informed with possible risks that follow any borrowing of citizens. In this relationship, it has been shown that citizens have always drawn a thicker end, although part of them are responsible for excessive borrowing that should still be in line with the expected revenues. For years on the financial market, there has been a stronger law, and these are certainly banks on the occasion of various loans. In particular, it is expressed in most long-term loans with... interest rates based on the bank's internal rules in order to pour the glass on loans in Swiss francs and wild exchange rates. There was no less problem with approval, especially after the suspension of the current accounts of citizens, so-called citizens. minuses that amounted to up to three salaries. All of this resulted in the difficult situation of citizens with the inability to repay loans and a large number of blocked accounts and as many as 21 billion kunas of outstanding liabilities. To me, it was always a big mystery why the CNB accepted the Swiss franc next to the euro and next to the kuna in the first place. Just before the crisis, especially after 2005, there was a large expansion policy and the incentive of banks that opened the door wide with their credit lines, not taking too much care of the possible risks of citizens but also of the risks of the banks themselves. Credits were particularly taken lightly in Swiss because at that time it seemed acceptable and very favourable and did not take too much into account that each taking a loan was risky. In the last 15 years, citizens have become over-indebted because real estate prices have gone to the sky and today we have 30% more housing units than the number of households. In addition to these credit lines, a large number of citizens, especially pensioners, used the current account minuses for paying directorial or mere survival. Not by returning credit wars to problems come banks that in such crisis situations only protect their own interests, abolish or reduce surpluses in the current accounts of citizens. And that's why these amendments to the law will come in handy because they go in favor of the weaker, unprotected Contracting Parties, which are our citizens. And according to the applicable law, a number of provisions are regulated by the relationship between the bank and the debtors but there was little real information at both the time of the loan and the loan, especially when the debtor is in trouble and cannot fulfil his obligation to repay the loan in time. These amendments and additions to the laws of the states have the right and obligation to intervene this problematic area and thus protect their citizens, especially when a large number of citizens are affected by what is seen by the number of 680,000 blocked accounts. The amendments prohibit the introduction of new fees after the conclusion of a loan agreement where the finance minister will further define the amount of that fee. In this way, it avoids the possibility of the credentials to additionally raise the credit price and generate extra profits for themselves. The believer is now obliged to warn the consumer by written written of the risks with a change in bankruptcy or a change in interest rate. In the case where a variable interest rate is agreed, the parameters that can be used to change the agreed interest rate must be precisely defined. It is also very important in this provision to apply to contracts concluded prior to the entry into force of this Act where no parameters for changing the interest rate have been defined. These parameters, fixed margins and interest-use periods shall not be greater than the initial in the case of foreign currency growth of more than 20% compared to domestic currency. In this way, citizens who have been threatened by the growth of interest rates, the growth of exchange rates and various increased fees and now banks are being protected, the creditors are taking over part of the burden and the overall crisis. Of course, these amendments and additions to the laws are caused by strong bank resistance, the Association of the Banks of the Republic of Croatia, and even these days the European Banking Federation, based in Brussels, also appeared. The analysis and warning of the loss of banks are shown, it is thought only of its own profit and forgets about the rule of law of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have been exposed to the self-will of the believers all these years. The real truth is the banks won't lose their profits. He'll just shrink a little bit. The purpose of this law is justified because it is to remove the observed irregularities and the unfair position of consumers in loans with a variable interest rate that depended on the will of the stronger parties to the contract, which are, of course, always banks. For household credit users, a maximum allowable interest rate shall be determined which shall not be more than an average interest rate on approved housing loans per currency in the Republic of Croatia increased by one-third. It is similar in consumer loans where the average interest rate can be increased by half. Thus, the average interest rate determines and publishes the Croatian National Bank on its website. In this way, these provisions of this law protect citizens from the excessive growth of interest rates, especially in over-indebted, long-term borrowing to address housing needs. There is a particular need for State intervention because the average interest rate in euro area countries is 3.35% while in the Republic of Croatia there is 5.37%. And that is where we should move because we are a member of the European Union and regardless of our crisis for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to feel that membership in the European Union. Lately, there have been a lot of stories about allowed overruns in the current account that have been the only way for citizens to pay the directors and other needs of their family. The Bank is now obliged to inform the consumer of the reduction or elimination of the permitted minus and to allow the consumer without any additional cost of payment of the amount in 12 monthly meals and interest rates applicable to the permitted overrun on the current account. It is the business policy of banks that consciously offered down to a minimum of up to three months’ wages, not taking into account risks for those debtors but not for their business. In the end, I believe, and we see this from the report of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget that this law deals with only one group of citizens and those who took loans in Swiss francs. We wonder what about citizens who took loans in euros or kunas and lost their jobs, stayed on small pensions and are also in the same difficult situation. This country should regulate other social policy measures how to help all socially endangered citizens. This is where Croatia can be viewed in neighbouring Hungary, which these days, we listened to on TV last night, have adopted a series of social policy measures that facilitate the difficult situation of its citizens as a result of similar problems of consumer lending. And the trail of this morning's news from Minister Linic about the bank's proposal raises the question of what will be done after we have passed this law and implemented it and that the bank's proposal shows that it is more favourable for citizens and also applies to loans probably in all currencies. In view of a number of solutions and improvements in the status of debtors, this law will support this law by the Croatian Party of Pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55949	Thank you very much. Since, and here it is, I was just about to say we don't have a replica, but he answered the word of the Honorable Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55950	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As the club mostly referred to the provision regarding the 20% effects of devaluation of individual currencies then I will once again try to take a purely numerical look at why we opted for that provision. From CNB data published somewhere in the 6th month of this year, loans in Swiss francs that record devaluation above 20% are only 30% of total loans. 70% is in other currencies. Total mortgages based on housing loans are slightly more than 4 billion kunas. The Swiss in the blockade are 2.3 billion, unlike others that are only 1.3 billion for the euro, the rest of the currency remains. What does that show? This shows that the effects are negative based on the exchange rate so strong that the blockades are 2.5 times larger in those where there are negative effects of exchange rate differences. 2.5 times larger. This is why we felt it was necessary to introduce this additional clause, that additional protection to enable in some way the citizens who suffer from the impact of exchange rates to have the possibility that the interest that attracted them to this would be lower than those currently accounting for banking systems. There's been a lot of debate here about it counter-constitutionally, new uncertainty, new problems, new costs for taxpayers. Yes, these were all messages from the banking system, they strongly resisted this solution because we found that this solution would mean about 300 and some million less profits next year. Nothing they retroactively pay, but in the next year, the name of the Swiss will be 300 million less. This is where you heard a fellow Caine reading how much the annual bonuses to the managers paid. Twice as much as this savings, twice as much. Now I'm asking what it is to worry about profits on behalf of 300 million of these measures that will mean savings, and at the same time management fees are 800 million. Yeah, we're talking about it, and here we're trying to tell what the responsibility of the entire banking system is that they haven't dealt with it by their own measures. The state shouldn't have intervened. I even point out that part of the banking system has implemented these measures. What I can say, as you can see, banks have decided to give suggestions and come closer to this solution, and that will be their proposal. There won't be any constitutional charges, there won't be any such charges I'd say unconstitutional. So far, we've been intimidated by it, intimidated, and as you can see, part of the parliamentary representatives and clubs think it's a questionable measure, and now we see that the banking system has accepted that we put these measures together and that there won't be a lawsuit. What does that mean? It's important to be active, it's important to simply offer solutions and ask for a solution. So I believe that until the vote we will be able to discuss their proposal, agree it because we do not need judicial circuses or lawsuits or instability, but they are not produced by the Government but by all those who resisted these solutions. And remember, double the profits next year will be on account of this compared to what managers pay themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55951	Thank you very much. We are continuing the debate, so on behalf of the HNS Representatives Club, the word will now be taken by the respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55952	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So on behalf of the HNS Club, at the beginning of the debate, I want to essentially highlight certain numbers that are relevant and related to this Consumer Credit Act and are important, from these discussions that we have had so far, most of which are related to the banking system. The first thing to say is that we have one of the most stable banking financial systems in Europe, i.e. in the European Union, that capital adequateness is a sensitivity to the risks and losses of the largest in Croatian banks and that we are the most stable ones there, so we have had the least earthquakes in the financial system and that this segment of responsibility for monetary policy has done well and the entire banking system. Secondly, that 60% of the source of funds in banks, sources of domestic resources, or deposits and instruments of the money market, and that dependence or dependence on the foreign part of the source is only about 18%. I say that purely in the sense that it has and that this law will have a certain impact on the stability of the financial system which clearly says that it should not. Profitability was a matter of banks, so we can talk about concrete figures. So in 2008, the net profit of the bank is 4.6 billion. 2009 3.2. In 2010, net profits of 3.7 billion. 2011 is 3.7. 2012 2.7 billion kuna. It should, of course, be said that when we talk about banks and profitability, we must say that they are not in a good relationship with European banks. So, regardless of the amount of profits that dominate naturally in the Croatian financial sector, we must generally say that return capital is half of what they have in European countries. Therefore, the figures are exact, the facts are so, and when we talk about the banking system, we have to say that their profitability, or return on capital, is about 5%, and that's half of what's in the EU, so we always have to talk about numbers with respect and we need to talk about a certain financial industry. What's also important, which is that absolutely except for the stability that I'm trying to demonstrate, of course, on behalf of the club and it's clear that the stability of the financial system is. It should be said that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have exceptional confidence in Croatian banks and that basically deposits in Croatian banks are growing, and that, let's say, deposits according to the latest data are about 777 billion kunas, what in other currencies in Croatian banks is showing this stability and trust, of course, what will continue to last. What is equally important to refer to when we talk about this law as to what it refers to and what the numbers are and what the users of this final bill are. So I've already discussed it in the replica, and that's about the minuses in the current accounts. So here we have about $8.4 billion directly related to this law. Credit cards credits 3.8 billion kuna and housing loans. So it's 61 billion kuna of housing loans, of which the euro is 56 billion kuna, and about the Swiss franc 21 billion kuna, by talking about the Swiss franc then we're talking about some 56,000 credit parties. Of course it doesn't have to be 56,000 users, some users have one or two loans but we are talking about numbers, amounts and a law that applies exceptionally to a large number of citizens. It also has great importance in their status as existential in terms of the possibility of returning, helping to adequately and expediently address what minuses in current accounts, in a way that does not give them extra presses in terms of fees and interest. And then, of course, on behalf of the club, I move on to that final bill of law, which is crucial both in the introduction and continuously spoken by the Minister of Finance on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Proposer. So, what's important is I have to repeat that the notice fee was lifted last year by law, let's not forget. It is forgotten that the same matter was extremely important in terms of consumer protection and the reduction of profits or extra profits however you want in many industries not only financially. This also introduces a ban on the introduction of additional credit charges. Once you receive a loan, there is no longer a possibility that the banking system will give you compensation, and you know that the fees have become one good bank income that goes from 15 to 20% of total income. That's not small. An obligation is introduced in accordance with which the believer is obliged to warn consumers about the risks associated with exchange of rates, change of interest rates, and the loss of income from the consumer itself. So everything must be public, transparent and educational what is extremely important. We in this bill of course have been discussed and discussed and there will be amendments to the way they will be dealt with in essence, a constant debate over Swiss people. However, the debate on how old credit relations are regulated. Well, there have been some debates and comments that this should also be graduated, and even in terms of whether, given the profession, someone was able to know that he was at great risk of what was discussed and suggested that there was the biggest way in which the bankers sold and represented loans in Swiss, and that's the incompetence of the citizens and the attempt to sell the product to a perfidan so as to say how to attract them, and that in fact people don't know what they're all expecting. This law prevents it. Therefore, it is clear that one part of the loans that are currently in force are not in line with the Law on Mandatory Relations from Articles 270 to 272. and that it is clear that it is the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to react and that by entering into the law of certain regulations and obligations to introduce in these contracts clauses that will be protected by the consumer, i.e. what we have so far cannot happen is that most entrepreneurs, meaning to legal persons, there was also a variable interest rate in lending and, of course, it will always be, however, most often in most cases, more than 99% of the cases of legal persons were linked to certain reference interest rates. Unlike credit in citizens where it was not related to reference interest rates but to bank estimates, market conditions, etc. And that's what's important about what this law is about, and that's what's important about what this law has to pass for all those contracts that are in force at the moment, and it's questionable whether they're valid under the Mandatory Relations Act. And every contract that exists, and we know that we have changed laws and many participants and not only on the market in the economy and natural persons in relations with legal persons or with the public sector are going to work and work on contract annexes that comply with certain laws that promote and protect citizens and protect consumers. Therefore, the debate that this is just about Swiss is not. This is one of the segments that is extremely important to citizens in general. I think that all the amounts I said and expressed on behalf of the club that are normally available on the websites or HUB or the CNB show how important this law is in the right sense for the protection of citizens, for transparency and in a way that banks themselves with their own reactions and after a session of the Committee on Budgets and Finance where they realized that no pressures and entry in part of the political debates were helpful, but they realized that they were also aware that what is most important in that moral and ethical professional sense they were wrong and that they are now talking to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, however, in order for this to end in court, rather than to bring the most favourable law in the interests of the citizens but also the interest of Croatian banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55953	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party, the following will be taken by the respected representative Mladen Novak on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55954	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Although this law has arrived too late for some because they have fallen into such difficulties that it is difficult to see any exit in any case we welcome the government's insistence or specifically the Ministry of Finance to end the self-will of bankers. In the current legal variant, all the risk of lending even though the contractual relationship belongs to only one party, which is the debtor of the consumer, i.e. the citizen. I must admit that the ministry's position, or the minister in conflict with the bankers, was quite surprising because there was some common practice, not only with us but also in the world and in Europe, that the ruling politicians were taking over the owners of capital, in this case to the bankers, so let's say this is a fairly resolved view for any praise at least from the perspective of the Croatian Labourists. Considering that, for example, the minister announced the sale of HPB and Croatia insurance at a time when it is most unfavourable, when it is most harmful for the state because it is a crisis and it is usually not such a sale that makes this relationship with bankers even more surprising to be honest. Anyway, we welcome him to a small fence. I am afraid that the final part of Mr Linic's opening statement to the minister is whether it is a sign of giving in to the banking lobby, or the Bank's Association, or I hope that they have not convinced or made any additional pressures that are not quite so visible that you will find some compromise solution that will ultimately result from giving up the original proposal so that citizens do not feel the positive effects of what is imagined. I also agree with the fact that this law cannot solve all problems, but frankly no law can solve all problems, so I think it is small and unserious in such a way to put it into the debate itself. Because every law only solves what area he deals with. Among other things, Minister Linic noted in the opening statement that banks did not want to take part in the risk, i.e. to bear part of the consequences. Well, frankly, they didn't have to and why would anyone do anything if they didn't have to. It's illusory to expect a team before it's bankers who have a basic job, a basic sense of making money on interest, making money on these loans. I don't see why anyone would expect some compassion for the citizens on their part, provided they're not forced to. Someone mentioned, I think more speakers mentioned, but I think the last Mr. Shucker, interest in the home states of these banks. So I will remind you of food price reductions, when we enter the EU from 1.7. So there are indications there are no more customs duties, the food prices will surely go down. Why would they go down there? So they make a profit on it, I don't see any reason why someone would if they weren't pressured by something why would they go with a cut in their profits? It is illusory to expect that someone will show good faith only because he is aware that it is difficult for citizens. If you don't find some modeality or motivate him or press him to do it, I don't think we can expect anything else. I must admit that I was also interested in the quote of my colleagues Shuker on the reduction of the interest rate by entering the EU that we received this promise, or an unspoken promise that there is room for the Croatian government and the ministry to do something about it? I would be glad if there was an opportunity to hear the answer to that question, or it's just one of the things that stays in the air, but the thesis that you ministers have said is used for political purposes when discussing such laws. I have to trip a little bit to this law, or I'm no longer alone with myself to talk about the proposal that we received or this proposal that went through today because it's mentioned in that original proposal are standard terms when it comes to Swiss what are standard conditions. I don't think there's any such thing as at least one of the ones I talked to I didn't get any answers. In this new proposal that has passed today, the government is writing terms and conditions. If this applies what was agreed on today in the Government, in my opinion, but I'm not an economist and I don't consider myself professional but as a layman if I read it then it's illegal again. It is because of these agreed terms that if I understood correctly, one of the reasons why these amendments to the law were just these agreed terms. Someone mentioned today I think someone on this side mentioned the Law on Mandatory Relations and that it's actually the opposite if I'm not mistaken, I think the article of the 272nd Law in which these conditions are not specified. So I think that this is on the trail of what I suggested at the outset that I have a certain amount of caution that there are indications from this statement of yours that there has been a significant drop in the bankers after all. I don't know if it's appropriate, but as a layman, it got into my eyes in article 5 if I'm not wrong to talk about a housing loan, so I'm asking a layman's question. Is there a possibility that in that part mortgage credit is not a good part of people, but all mortgages are actually real estate, and I think that there's a possibility that these two categories can be evened out? I'm not an expert, I'm not asking those professions a pure layman's question, so I expect you won't need me right now but you'll answer that, too. I have to look back at another debate, given that here from this pay phone we've had the opportunity to hear from the government or the government, we've had the opportunity to hear and those who think differently who have set as their goal the protection of citizens, or the possibility that they might in some way be compensated for what they've already been punished, but here we've had the opportunity to hear in my opinion and the views of the banking lobby. So in one part of the debate, don't forget that there are 21,000 employees in the banking sector. That sounded to me like what it was a threat that those 21 thousand employees could possibly be out of a job. It's such a demagogy that it can't be bigger. If they're going to lose their jobs, they're going to lose something else, not because of a change in this law, and it's certainly not in any relationship with each other. What's questionable about these changes are bonuses to managers, and if someone's speaking from the banking lobby, then they're talking to that motive, not the motive for protecting 21,000 employees. The fear that there will be no credit if such a law passes, and frankly if we are only sentenced to loans that will rob us of all that we have in these conditions, then we don't need them. And if we keep our mouths shut, then what are we here for? Just one more comment on your exposure to the CNB and the governor of the CNB. I understand this one of yours I'm going to say a courteous attitude about everyone doing their job, it's all wonderful and wonderful. I'm not much of a fan of you, although it's not a criticism, I don't glorify you as someone else. But I think you're extremely correct and you're one of the ministers who's almost every time here when it comes to his law. When it comes to the governor of the Croatian National Bank, we asked the board to show up there with a man, to ask him a question, to see him at the end of the day. No way. The other night, a report from the Croatian National Bank, no way. His apparition here in the Parliament is just like that of some other apparitions. What kind of relationship is that to the Parliament? What kind of relationship is that to this country anyway? And according to what you said not to touch each other, so to be honest, who chose the governor of the Croatian National Bank? So who did, who could if the ruling majority didn't vote? That part of your responsibility should also be taken over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55955	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. The first is the respected representative of Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55956	Thank you very much. Col. Novak, you spoke well of the fact that in the promotion of the referendum, we spoke of entering the European Union that it was written that it would cost to say in such a simple dictionary all the items, that there would be food prices lower because there are therefore duty-free imports of most products. But that didn't happen. We witness every day all those who go shopping, shopping, how... Shopping, it's IN now to say, is that, that it's quite different. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm wondering, like me, it's not related to this subject, but in your debate, did you say what happened? After all, we had duty-free imports of meat into the Republic of Croatia, so 0% of customs and before we entered the European Union. When I asked the Government who got the importer and with what quotas I only got the list of importers but not the quotas who imported the meat and how much he actually earned on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55957	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Mladen Novak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55958	Thank you very much. Well, buddy, it's actually, you're right it was more common in the media but today it's mentioned in the debates, so that's why I listed it. But in my opinion, that is proof of what Croatian Labourists have been saying all this time. There's no self-regulatory market. And that's one mantra that's imposed, and I won't be bad enough to tell a hundred times a repeated lie becomes true and associate with someone else. But unfortunately, it has become a practice, and it is not the only case that something is constantly going through the media and through discussions that is spoken as an unquestioned act which is actually more than questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55959	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected MPs Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55960	Thank you very much. You colleagues, Novak, were saying how much I understand on behalf of the Croatian Labour Labour Party. So from this debate of yours, I conclude that you actually want to change your party's name into a party of work but without workers in the banking sector. Yes, and of those 21 thousand 800 people should be kept in check when the law is passed. Because it's too late to be a general after the battle. Well, in a few years, then we'll have a debate and why this problem has arisen and why that problem has arisen. And one of the objective and logical consequences of this law can also be the number of employees in the banking system. Because you know how to maintain profit? So you cut costs. And in that case, both work and those who work there could be on the list of those costs. That's all I want to warn you. And that's what this assembly has to say and what we need to know. And if that's the case, and this isn't about any lobbying interests, I'm going to remind you of one example of another law. In late 2011, this Parliament abolished a special telecom tax. Then it was also interpreted as being of great lobbying interests and the new government as soon as it came, it was one of its first moves to restore the law. As opposed to lobbying interests. It took exactly six months for the SDP to renegotiate the law. Because in those six months, he realized how and how and where they generate and maintain jobs. Among other things, big corporations like this. That's why it takes less demagogy for a colleague, Novak, to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55961	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Novak will respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55962	Thank you very much. I have to admit that the only thing I agree with is this closing sentence needs less demagogy because when you start taking care of the workers, then I'm really sick of it. When I spoke of your concern for 21 thousand and you completed me now and 800 employees in the banking sector, I also said that it was demagogy on your part. Because you don't care about these workers, you care about the bonuses that managers make. That's where you found your interest. It's a win-win from the banks. I definitely don't see a single calculation to cut and get a reduction in the number of employees. But in order for these bonuses to be reduced, it certainly could. After all, that would lead to justice. Here's a colleague who gave me information that he's profit-based in the banking sector of 130 476 kuna, so that data speaks for itself enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55963	Thank you very much. The next replica will be the respected representative of Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55964	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, colleagues, bonuses in the private sector are necessary, legitimate, recommended, based on work, results of work, and that's good. It would be good for the public sector to have good stimulation and distillation so that efficiency would be good in any case. When we talk about bonuses in the banking sector, so it's legitimate within the private sector to determine what and how, in what way but that's why our role as a government is as a proposing, us who pass laws to prevent these bonuses from being either a burden on citizens or as an extra profit or as illegal contracts, illegal contracts, to use user ignorance to make extra money, to be like a monopoly. So bonuses as bonuses are quite legitimate and recommended when they are the result of the work, and that is why it is our role, and that is why this law is to prevent not bonuses but to prevent illegalities against citizens, to protect citizens and in fact this law is a bonus for citizens because it will ensure that they are less taken from credit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55965	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mladen Novak will respond not to the replica, but he will obviously answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55966	Thank you very much. Well, buddy, right now I'm not sure exactly what the chairman is saying, whether this was or if you didn't understand me or if you just wanted to confirm what I said. At no point did I dispute the right to do so, but the thing is that if there is what you later said, if there is, if the conditions of harm to the citizens, conditional damage to the citizens, contracts that are harmful to the citizens, then in the end, you have actually convinced in your own words what I was saying from below. I don't see any difference in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55967	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, he will again take the floor of the esteemed Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55968	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The proposal and the CNB and the proposal for banks, which refers to one of the average interest rates reached, which will be the basis for calculating the maximum and interest rates on housing loans and interest rates on consumer loans, will be very clear in its explanation with tables so that you can know exactly what these amounts are. Likewise, when we talk about the bank's proposal regarding a possible solution to all loans that are above 20% exchange rate differences, we will also give all the tables so that we can very clearly identify and what will be the basis for calculating the maximum and what it will look like, and we will also determine that in this section about the exchange rate difference above 20% or briefly the Swiss wording. So the amendments will be very clear, we will discuss them before the voting process itself, each of you will be able to have opportunities to make themselves clear and I believe that they will remain on the trail of these solutions that are here. When we talk about a possible solution common to the banking sector, the government estimates that it is still more acceptable that if we find ourselves on this solution we have no delay in applying the law because then there are no lawsuits, then all the stories about this being unconstitutional, unfounded, to go backwards, to destabilise the system are falling away, and that means that since 1.1, there is a far more favourable interest for all those who suffer on exchange rates. Therefore, all the stories that were slowly going to fall into the water and I believe that we will have full application of the law, and that is why we think it is smarter to go like this than to create uncertainty if this proposal is challenging because at that moment we are entering court proceedings, and we know that judicial proceedings can also be a standstill of law in application, and I think it is important for us to allow citizens all these applications. When we talk about mortgage loans, they're housing loans and it's an important purpose. As it is ensured, whether or not some real estate and the rest is not relevant, therefore mortgage loans are also subject to these regulations and in that part it will be fully covered and it is covered. I see we've come here to discuss what a state is, and what a citizen they are. And then we have to understand that the purpose of this law is that a citizen who is not creditworthy does not enter credit risks. We demand far greater responsibility from the banking system because it is normal for the bank to assess the ability of someone to give it to, we cannot give it and whether it will go credit to someone who is unable to repay the loan. When we talk about Croatia then we need to know we can still get a loan, but our business was so successful that we created by the end of this year 190 billion kuna loans. That Croatia has never returned a kuna in the past 23 years, that most of us pay off with a new loan for deficits, we increase credits, everything we do, we do on credit. Yes, it's Croatia. Croatia has a negative score, too. When creditors judge us, they think it's not wise to give, so they give us very high interest. Why? So if something goes wrong towards Croatia, at least it will be charged through higher interest. These are risks and therefore Croatia does not have or will have a more favourable interest. What we're doing now, but obviously we've never learned what 200 billion kuna credit means and where we burned it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55969	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55970	Thank you very much, Minister. Well, since I took this as your reference to my debate, either I overheard it or you didn't look back at the conversation. Since I mentioned her and I in the debate, I don't see why we're prescribing a commitment to conversation. After all, he will again now offer him less interest. He signed the contract under that, then he must transfer the loan to another currency where far more unfavourable conditions are. Is that it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55971	Minister Linic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55972	Thank you very much. And you know for a fact that here we try to define the interest rate only for those loans that are above 20% with exchange rate differences. At the time when these loans are dropped to 19.9 as the party is today spoken has the right to... that risky category of credit in another which the bank offers him or will return to the old interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, there will be an option for citizens to choose one or the interest will be lower.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55973	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. And now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Ivo Jelusic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55974	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We heard here today, and also the previous days and months since the debate on this law, different opinions, statements, proposals, which is logical. Different interests, different opinions. Each person represents his own interests, and then he gives his opinions accordingly. And our interest, the interest of the government and this parliamentary majority is quite simple and our interest and our goal to protect citizens from the will of banks and to bring citizens into a more equal position than they've ever been to banks. Others have different interests and different goals, and we can understand that, but we do not have to agree with them. We understand the interests of the bank, but we agree with them, we understand the interests of some here in the Parliament who protect the interests of the banks, but we don't agree with them either. And that citizens are in an unfavourable and unfair position with regard to banks, I think it is more or less clear to all of them, and especially to those citizens who are in such a position. An example works. A man is in charge of francs, he is in charge of francs, banks are usually not in charge of francs, but are usually in euro or in dollars. There's a huge exchange rate difference that stays with banks, a citizen's salary. And what happens in the end? Yes, after a few years of paying off an annuity involving both interest and principal interest, it was said in Kunski that his principal was higher, that his debt was higher than when he started paying off. Turns out that money that the citizen was giving away the money. I say it wasn't thrown, but it was transferred, transferred from the citizens' accounts to the accounts of wealthy banks, to the accounts of wealthy managers and bank owners. Is that fair? Is that fair? We believe it isn't, and that's why we want to pass this law. So, not to transfer money from the pockets of poor citizens to the accounts of wealthy bankers, wealthy bank owners and wealthy managers because they have enough money. You don't have to rub a fat goose's neck! And from the poor citizens. This government has so far made a series of legislative proposals through which it wants to promote its economic policy, and it often comes down to the rule of law, to introduce order and justice. And this law is on the verge of introducing order and justice. To list some examples of how we introduced the Fiscalization Act, that the tax must be paid by all, that we have introduced order in paying taxes, that one cannot pay one, the other cannot pay. Therefore, order and righteousness were lacking in this country. Why has it been fueled for years that there is no order and justice now I don't want to talk about it, but we want to change it, and we want to change it with our economic policy measures and the laws that we are making and one is on that track. They say there will be a threat to freedom of entrepreneurship, a game of competition, we cannot interfere with the relationship between customers and banks, etc. If it's a game of competition, if freedom of entrepreneurship and a game of competition we bring down on who's stronger to push and that you can do whatever you want whoever's stronger so that they can do what they want, then we're against such a neoliberal concept and we'll fight it. I think it's precisely the job of the state to be a relationship regulator, in economic relations. When there's a population imbalance in economic relations, and here it comes. One lives too well, the other lives extremely badly, and there is no dispute about it. So we want to protect the citizens, but not against the banks. This isn't about the banks. This is aimed only at introducing more how to say order and balance. In the long run, this probably doesn't work for the banks either, because that's what banks will do when they end up exhausting citizens and the economy to the limit. Who's he gonna work with, who's he gonna live with? Unless they're going to close their banks and wait for a permanent recovery to come back online. I understand the Association of Banks that opposes it, I understand the Association of Banks from Europe, which came a warning two, three days ago. Although some have interpreted this, a warning came from Europe, Brussels or already as they said. It is not a warning from any Europe, not from any Brussels, but from the professional Association of Banks of Interest Groups, which gathers rich banks and protects financial capital, anything else. Therefore, they defend their interests, we defend the interests of citizens. Therefore, we don't always need things, so let's not always have subjective mentality as soon as something comes which is western or north of our borders is immediately from Europe, so we're scared. Even when it comes from a professional organization that's a product of large capital and we're not their protectors. Therefore, we will protect the citizens because the citizens chose us to protect them. We are not protectors of large capital, and we have no idea that we are protecting them. Those who think they need to protect the bankers and the big capital to choose from, we won't do it. They say it's not a practice in the EU to do this. It always likes to call for practice in the EU, but it is not a practice in the EU to make housing loans this expensive. The practice in the EU is that housing loans are about 3%, 3.5% interest, and with us 5.5%, 6%, 7%. The practice in the EU is that entrepreneurial credits for development are at a level of 1.5%, 2%, top 3%, and with us 7%, 8% and 10%. It's a practice in Europe. I am in favour of equating ourselves with practice in Europe but in all segments when it comes to it, but not only in those who fit the banks and who don't fit the citizens. We've heard here even today I think from the HDZ order that people are afraid that the banks won't finance anymore and it won't pay them off if we pass this bill it'll be too little money, it won't finance them. Well, they don't have to. There are a few solutions. First, we are now in the EU, if we are able to go to credit, that's what Minister Linic was talking about, we can go to another bank, we don't have to who's based here in Croatia. That's one thing. Secondly, and that's the highlight of cynicism, he says they don't get paid here so they won't give credit to our citizens. Now I don't understand how it's not worth lending to our citizen at 5% or 7%, and it's worth giving in Europe in other countries by 2% or 3%. Yeah, that makes sense to me. How can it be 7 less than 2? The only way to do that is to justify the interest of the banker. But there's no healthy logic to it. And it's the same capital that we understand each other. They say it's our banks have more expensive entry capital. It's the same capital. It's the same capital, same owners because the owners of these banks are more or less all the same. To me unknown but behind the ownership and our banks, I say and think the banks that are based in Croatia as much as they are ours, have our name and work with our people, but the capital is foreign. It's the same capital. How is it paid to place funds in Germany or Austria with 2% and in Croatia not with 5% or 6%? They say, yes, but you're a high-risk country. Well, gentlemen, darlings, we will also be a high-risk country until the end of time if we continue to be treated like this. When he gives you a 10% interest loan, that credit is risky because it's hard to pay, because it's a huge interest. Because you pay more interest than the chief. But when they give you 2%, it's not a risk. And we'll be risky as long as they give us such credits. I stand against it. Enough to be risky, and we just want to get even with the rest of us in Europe. That's what we want, and that's what we need to insist on, and that's what we're looking for. So, I get the feeling that he's deliberately trying to make us risky and keep us at risk, because as long as you're risky, then he can push you well with high interest. That's what needs to be said out loud and clear. Of course, banks have been extremely nice so far, and when someone's really nice, it's hard when you take some of that away from them. It's like every day when you come home from work, you bring chocolate to which it may not have the right but one day when you don't bring it, it's the problem. It's kind of a situation with our banks right now. They've had too much, they've lived too well, and now that you're trying to get them a little bit of that, that's the problem. And of course they've been fine so far. So they had high profits from shareholders of these banks who were mostly out there, bank managers who were our people, but in the service of foreign banks and foreign capital, they lived very well and the citizens suffered. Otherwise, it's always been that way. The profile is private, and when there's a problem, then the problems get socialized. And when the bank, for example. comes into trouble as long as it was a good profit he went to the shareholders and when they get into trouble then the state has to save and pay the citizens and pay the savings, etc., or look for a way to get rid of it. Well, I guess a lot with that kind of behavior, too. How long ago there was injustice until a year ago we had in the provisions of this same law that the citizens of the minority were in a slave-owned relationship with the banks. When you took the loan, you couldn't get out of it. And if you want to get out of it, and if you want to pay him off early because you found a more favourable source of funds, you were still punished for it, you had to pay for it. So you couldn't just walk out. And that's what we even had. That's what we did a year ago, but it's just talking about how much the banks were boasting in their work. Therefore, we want only more order and righteousness. We don't drive banks into loss like some people want to say, but we want to contain their greed and we want them to eventually plan in the long run. Because if their policy was, and it could be said that it was short-term high-interest shocks, take as much as possible, get out of the citizens and the economy as much as you can, and then the citizens will get into a situation that they can no longer take credit because they can't pay it under those conditions and then they'll slowly settle down and wait for a new opportunity when citizens come back into a situation that they're a little stronger and they'll re-emergent. At least this government won't get away with it. He won't be able to do it anymore. So we're going to set the criteria where the gauges can move that interest so that the banks don't earn the loss they want to do and cry around here, they won't be lost. If they are in losses, they will be in losses because of their irrational business making the wrong business decisions, so they have placed risk credits, etc. and the citizens will not be lost and with interest from the loans 4, 5 or 6% with it cannot be lost but simply there will be no surplus that they have had so far and it hurts them. We understand that they're in pain, but it's hurt us so far, and now we've found the cure, and I hope that we will continue on this drug. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55975	Thank you very much. We have two replicas and then we'll have one break after that. So the first replica is the respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55976	Thank you. Here's a colleague I would agree with a good part of your debate specifically as to the position you've expressed, whether these amendments of the law and all the goals you've pointed out, I'm not sure, but in any case with the positions you'd agree, and I wish we had been as strict in the law as we were in showing our positions. But I guess the political reality and relationship of the forces that are being set define the final position the government has taken by defining the final proposal to amend and supplement the Consumer Credit Act. I would point out what you said, I hope that then your club will also support the amendment that we have given to allow credit users to choose whether to repay credit to annuities or wars. We think that for a good round of users it would also be one quality that has not been allowed to them so far during the repayment of the loan. So I hope that it will also be recognized in your club as something that if it is installed in the Consumer Credit Act, it does not represent a direct cost to banks but it opens up the possibility for credit users to define in agreement with the bank that credit payment model that could be significantly more favourable for them on their incomes, they could actually pay less interest in total than they pay loans only in annuities today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55977	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Jelusic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55978	My dear colleague, I am pleased that you agree in principle with this law and that you support what the government is doing in the interest of citizens that you too support. I don't understand, though, some others here in the constituencies that don't support even then when the government is doing well, even though what we're doing is not the first time but the second time. So this is the second amendment and addition of this law, and we are secondly correcting the law passed by the HDZ government because we have seen that it is not good and that it is not in the citizens' interest. I'm glad when part of the opposition supports it, I'd be happy to support it and that part of the opposition that he made before such provisions that were not favourable to the citizens, but unfortunately I don't see that that's the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55979	Thank you. We will now hear the replica of the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55980	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Jelusic, I refer to a part of your debate, but the part where you say we protect citizens, we protect citizens, etc. The more you protect them, the harder it gets every day, and that shows data even the finance minister hasn't hidden. And your number of blockeds has increased by 35,000 and 4 billion in only 6 months. So you were protecting them and they're getting harder. They're completely out of operation with those 35,000 new non-operational ones. It reminds me of that commercial that we can see on Croatian Autoclub TV, the man drives, the car breaks down a little bit but he was in driving condition and then he fixed it and just when he thought he was being fixed by the explosion. He's in that commercial, then he's calling the hack. In this reality, the Ministry of Finance calls the IMF, it's a protection, and we'll see how it ends in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55981	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55982	Thank you very much. It's a treat for me when HDZ says this. Those who have just been built in such a position, and now all we are doing is trying to get the citizens and the state out of the situation of the invisible situation in which the HDZ government has brought the HDZ government into the previous two mandates. So these problems that you're talking about and what the public is talking about aren't since yesterday. They're all more or less inherited. It is true that the debt of the state is large and here we all say that we are in big trouble, but out of 190 billion debt of the state, 60 billion is the result of the last three years of your reign for 60 years, we have looked at EUROSTAT's data accordingly. So as with the citizens, all the problems that we are discussing today... the citizens' duties have arisen from the period when you were in power. You didn't see that the citizens were in trouble or you didn't want to see it, but either way, it doesn't justify you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55983	Thank you very much. We will now take a break until three o'clock when we will continue and then, on behalf of the government, will take the word first of all, Prime Minister Slavko Linic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55984	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. Finance Minister Slavko Linic reported on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55985	Very short on the SDP Club debate. All proposals that really seek to resolve the quality of relations between citizens and the banking system believe that this and those previous discussions and proposals and already confirmed laws improve the position of Croatian citizens compared to the banking system. And I also believe that in the future we will have a far more responsible relationship with the banking system in part of the placement of funds. Because what is worrying when we observe the work area of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is indeed the enormous debt of the citizens of Croatia towards the financial sector. 67% of debts to the financial sector are due and other debts. Regardless of the state's claim, but what's worrying is that the debt of citizens is growing by municipal services. Thus, water is not paid, electricity is not paid, rent is not paid or housing costs are not paid if we take gas and everything else. All of this shows that just an increased credit activity for the purpose of raising consumption has now been the reason for such enormous indifference. That she is now and the reason that the simple system of billing becomes compromised. Because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to protect two-thirds of the salary of citizens because it is below the standard, below the minimum anyone can live on, and let alone one three-member or four-member family. Therefore, this is one measure where we just want to limit payments, influence that banks are very careful because if the maximum interest is very low at the moment the bank in that interest does not have reserves for unpaid loans, written off debt per loan. Which means they must not calculate in their interest the additional risks they have calculated so far and all in order to collect on interest and others cover the risks of investments in individual loans. So we believe that with this measure we are slowly introducing certain order, I believe that these individual solutions will also increase the charges of the banking system itself. Because the banks themselves estimate that if these high exchange rate loans are reduced and compensated, they will in some way enable citizens to service their obligations more regularly. And basically what will eventually lose on the interest that should be lower on these specific loans is evident that the banking system is counting on a slightly higher charge, a better charge, so they estimate that significant impacts on their profits and should not have. We believe that, with this last proposal, we have now covered the area of consumer protection in part of our relationship with financial institutions, but we also believe that payments towards uncontrolled consumption will be significantly reduced. And that is what unfortunately will not have a positive impact when we talk about economic growth but it is essential that economic growth is based on an increase in exports, on an increase in investment rather than on unreal and inexplicable consumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55986	I thank the ministers on behalf of the SDSS Club, a respected colleague of Mile Horvat will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55987	Mr. Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We at the Independent Democratic Party Club will in any case support this legislative proposal. I'm also just going to say a sentence at the beginning, and I think the good thing was this civil initiative called the Franak Association, which kind of opened this whole thing up. Not reducing, of course, the proposing initiative, that is, the ministry to sort this thing out. But we have to say that these people started talking about this problem loudly and openly long before everyone else. In any case, this law will be discussed differently by bank experts, it will discuss differently from us who are not in that branch and I when I say some of our vision of this problem in any case, I risk entering a zone where some people know a lot more and maybe they'd say some things better. In any case, it is the general conclusion that banks have acted and acted in any case within the framework of the permitted, or within the current regulatory framework and, of course, so should be and, of course, in this whole public debate in the opening section of this law, the position of the banking sector is absolutely clear and I am not surprised at them. Perhaps if I were a representative of the banking sector with a situation like this today, I would be a advocate of such a firm relationship with such legal solutions. In any case, as a club, we experienced this legal text and this debate as an attempt to normly adapt the policy of the banking sector to the real life of the Republic of Croatia. I said that experts, experts should absolutely talk about it, but we citizens who are hit by all kinds of monetary policies and even these, we feel that there is something wrong and that there is a need to make things right, so I'm going to say a few things, so I'm going to refer to just some of the key things that we've assessed to be the basic element of this legislative proposal. There are primarily fees, fees used by banks during our business that we characterized when we analyzed as a certain type of parafiscal income or the collection of various fees that go on the burden of citizens. I will only read here an example from a particular bank, so submitting a proposal to write down the delete, which includes the cost of converting 118 kuna, making an appeal to the citizens' conclusion costing 235 kuna, changing the agreed terms, so when the banks want to change the terms of the contract when they extend the deadline, when changing interest costs the citizens 300 kuna, further any extension and using the payment deadline is 2% to value, and mainly that's about 200 kuna somewhere. Various reports, notifications, credit warnings, the issue of a depravity at the request of a citizen costs him 100 kuna, the cancellation of the contract costs him 100 kuna, the particularly requested extract of the credit situation also costs, the cost of protests, lawsuits etc., etc. There are more masses of these fees that we could read here, that go on the burden of citizens. In this legal solution, this possibility, as far as I understand it, is quite restrictively set, so the banks will no longer have the opportunity to burden the citizens with these huge parafiscal charges they call a variety of kinds of fees. Finally, it would be good to see how much that amount is in some amount of money acquired in an average credit arrangement through the duration of that credit arrangement on the basis of these and such compensations. The next thing that's key here in the legal text is interest rates. It is the basic component of every credit relationship and the very interest relationship in residential loans that says that in the European Union interest is on a residential loan somewhere around 3.35% average compared to the same situation in the Republic of Croatia where this interest rate 5.37 gives us enough rights to ask and reason enough to ask and imagine the position of citizens in the Republic of Croatia in relation to the same citizen in the European Union. Also, when we talk about interest, we should say something and the formula for calculating these interest rates. It is said here, and I think that de facto in life should be that this new formula that we are now offered here by this legal solution should be first and foremost clear for citizens, i.e. for the users of credit because it is some basis for an open credit relationship between the bank and the users. Because we can theoretically here, but in life it means that an ordinary man reaches out for credit when he's mostly having a hard time, when he's in some kind of trouble and then he goes to the bank and asks for credit and accepts everything he's offered then, just to get a certain amount of money that can save him at that point and often happens that people don't pay attention to what's not visible in certain conditions of that relationship. Therefore, this interest rate by us should also be the formula for calculating the interest rate above all must be quite, quite clear and transparent to all citizens. Therefore, one question follows the vault record as a component of this formula whether it is clearly explained enough and whether other than that of the expert part of the people who know what the vault records are as a component and interest rates, these formulas will actually be to calculate the interest rate whether it will be clear and wider to the users, i.e. the citizens who expect to get through this debate a clear picture of what awaits them in the future in terms of some interest rate. The next question we are interested in is mortgage loans. This is where housing and consumer loans are processed, so the interest of this legal solution is residential and consumer loans. Why are mortgage loans not processed when we know that in the global global recession today on the world market and back three years mainly caused unfavourable mortgage loans. In any event, when it comes to unfavourable mortgage loans, it is necessary to say a few things and to attach to these negative effects of the Executive Act, i.e. the very conduct of mortgage loans. It's something you could talk about the same way. Of course, it's not the subject of this debate, but when it comes to mortgage loans, there should be some accounting to be made about it. The next thing you know in this law, one of the key things is liquid accounts. It's a very important thing to us. Why? Because for an ordinary citizen the business over the current account is... So the way of life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You almost don't have a family that doesn't have a current account, doesn't have two, three cards, works in a way that transfers money from one card to another and survives from first to first. And the very fact that the bank could say at some point no longer have the right to this minus, tomorrow return it led to the desperate position of an ordinary man. So the solution that you've offered here is that it's allowed, or abolished minus possible to return to the next 12 wars is a very good solution, for us an acceptable solution, and we think that for citizens in practice it will be a rescue in such situations. We think there is something to be said here about the Croatian National Bank. My colleagues were saying something about it, and I'm going to say here some of our vision of it, these major financial institutions. The Croatian National Bank has received a key role here, so it should form an average interest rate based on this legal solution, which will be the basis for civil obligations in this credit relationship. One question is raised, and these discussions today raise the question why the Croatian National Bank has so far been passive in resolving this, these situations, why it has not previously been involved in the debate over this bill and why it continues to have such a firm position on the side of banking policies that have forced us to go into this legal solution. I will also say something here about the Croatian National Bank policy, because in all countries, developed countries, a major role in solving economic crises and recessions is played by central banks or central financial institutions. Thus, I would like to remind myself of the founding act of federal reserves, so the US Central Bank is among the basic tasks of taking measures for full employment of workers, i.e. citizens of the United States. Central banks have had a significant impact on the level of interest rates of business banks through the height of the escontaneous rate, so since the emergence of recession and the global crisis of the central bank significantly reduced the escontaneous rates so that the US Federal Reserve applied an escont rate of 1% since the third month of 2013. The European Central Bank rate is 0.05%, the Czech Republic 0.05%, Romania 1.25, Hungary 4.75, and the Croatian National Bank is 7%. It should also be said here in the context of this, that foreign banks have continued to lower interest rates by carefully observing developments in the economy lately, so in the euro area these interest rates were 1.28%, in the UK 1.53. At the beginning of 2013, light rates were in the Austrian environment 2.22%, in Germany 1 and a half, and in Croatia they were 3.72%. And then we're talking about the endangered profits of our banking institutions. If this legal solution is accepted, they may be smaller. I have no doubt that this profit will not be less, but it will still be so measured by billions of kunas, so the bank's profits were in 2008. 4.6 billion kuna, 2009. 3.4 billion kuna, in 2011 somewhere over 3 billion, some say 3.7 billion kuna. That's the data they're talking about. Among other things, I am not talking about some other aspects of the fact that a certain order and this legal text that the ministry is going with today I think is on track to introduce a completely different, more normal relationship into this matter and in this problem. And finally something about the legal basis for implementing this law. So one general rule, because we hear that the disputes of the implementation of these legal provisions are based on, therefore, calling on the Law on Mandatory Relations. The general rule is, therefore, one general postulate of the pacta sum servanda means contracts must be applied. However, we also know in theory and in practice that contracts do not apply if the character of the credentials is contrary to the interests of the parties, whether one, whether the other and whether both sides. This is clearly about the fact that the long-term back-to-back practice of banking institutions, through a variety of deviations from basic contracts, marred the basic interest of the customer's party by increasing the interest rate and increasing and relations of parity in currencies. Therefore, there is no criticism that mandatory relations do not allow contract contracts to be corrected. In addition, some countries in the environment, judicial institutions of some countries in the environment have already brought legal arguments in the sense that such contracts are harmful and break up and allow users to receive damages through various private lawsuits and litigation and get completely different credit agreements. For that reason I think this law is good, we support it. But we think that in a good part of the provisions and prevent any future litigation in these credit relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55988	Thank you. The Republic will be presented by a respected colleague, Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55989	Thank you very much. Comrade Horvat, I'm glad she's no longer pure heresy to mention the CNB in this House. And finally see her real role in everything that's going on. I have commented on this bill earlier in a way that I am the last to allow the destabilization of the financial system, and the first to rise up against those who threaten human lives. This law will help all credit users of banks and will not compromise the banking system. The currency clause is normal, but in Croatian case only compared to the euro because the system is eurorated maximum. It is not logical that the currency clause is placed on the Japanese yen, on the crown, on the Australian dollar, on the Swiss franc because there are no such currencies in the banking system. I would therefore ask and suggest that it be included in this bill of the clause prohibiting the exchange clause, the currency risk to defend against those currencies that are not in the banking system. And since it helps us all to be in the first place and in the only place Croatian people and Croatian man then this law should be supported under such a condition and I will personally support it because I will not allow the present time or future time to remind us of that famous story about Diogene when with a candle in broad daylight he sought out a man in Athens. Where did this man get lost in Croatia? We'll protect him. And a man should be protected at risk and the minister would beg to include a clause to prohibit binding into currency he does not have. It has to be, it's speculation, it's a risk. It's jeopardizing the banking system! And if that turns on, we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55990	Time's up. The reply to the replica will now be given by a respected colleague of Mile Horvat, whom I ask that we do not decrypt the second time gesture if you want to respond to the replica lift the yellow tile.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55991	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55992	Answer now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55993	Thank you. In any case, I am glad that you will support this bill. It means that we are approximately on the trail of the same thought, we are on the same line that we need to help hundreds of thousands of people of the Republic of Croatia who, at one point, are in charge of certain conditions that have turned out to be very unfavourable for them, even if they were executed. Of course the CNB needs to be discussed, so there is no question here about how it works and how the main financial institution should function. Well, in all serious countries, we're talking about a major financial institution. Without doubting your expertise, I fully support your proposal to introduce this clause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55994	We're done discussing clubs. Finance Minister Slavko Linic called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55995	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A brief review of the club's exposure. We repeat the question of loans and mortgage insurance is not a question of housing loans. So they're housing loans and they're also covered by this law. It's just a kind of insurance and it's not a type of credit. Therefore, consumer loans and housing are all types of loans regardless of how the loan is covered. Therefore, to clear up doubts and in some ways do not have to doubt whether this part is covered or not. As far as your other suggestions are concerned, the debate is over now. If they are translated into certain amendments, we will try to clarify your suggestions and eventually see if any of these amendments can or cannot be accepted. I would also like to point out clearly whether or not we can or can not correct certain interest rates in view of the concluded contracts. The government's view was, however, to assess in that section that it was the citizens who were all the negative sides of the bad product, bearing a bad loan that we could share by virtue of the Law on Mandatory Relations. And that's why we suggested a clause that says very clearly that we protect those citizens who have exchange rates greater than 20%. It is precisely aware that this is not counter-constitutional and that we who must somehow protect citizens as consumers try to offer certain solutions in that part. I believe that by the time the law is passed, we will have a harmonised position with the banking system, and then any dilemmas about whether or not we will have legal problems. Because for the government, the law is not constitutionally asked, nor is it morally questioned, and therefore we believe that we will receive support in the Parliament. There remains a question of exchange rate differences and these doubts whether the executive authority is involved in exchange for exchange rate differences. The exchange rate differences problem, the problem of currency clauses is the area of monetary government action. And in that part would be a problem in this law to include any solutions. Although I think this debate with the National Bank can also go into debate about currency risks and whether to allow loans to be negotiated in some currencies. So let's take one of the new banks that works here are some Russian banks that also have a currency that I don't know how they're going to go up and it's obvious that when we look at these discussions, it wouldn't be directed to close contracts in those currencies, even if they're interest-stimulated because they're too high risks, risks that we know that only the consumer, citizen, the credit user can carry them. We agree that this is something that should not be allowed until the currency in Croatia is no longer used there is no more savings in it, etc. These are all suggestions that I believe very much monetary authority can accept and that it is very important that some of these discussions go towards monetary authority. But it's hard for us to make that mistake through this law right now and try part of the monetary policy, part of the solution that must be given by the monetary authority we're embezzling in this law. We'll hear about the amendments themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55996	I thank the ministers. At your presentation, we have a single replica of the esteemed colleague Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55997	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, I deliberately mentioned the currency clause because banks have made much more income on the basis of exchange rates than on the basis of basic interest rates when it comes to granting loans related to the Swiss franc. And that's the problem, that problem has to be said enough. Will the CNB say what he would have to say because it is the task of the CNB to prevent speculation and indifference and something that is undesirable and harmful to both the banking system and the client and whoever is using the credit. It's harmful, proven, the CNB must, but if the CNB won't because it's independent of national interests and social interests then someone has to intervene, and it's the only government. I don't mind doing it to the CNB though it's his job, he has to do it but then it completes my pleasure to raise your hand to such a law and to protect that poor man from unpleasant, sudden accidents, and the exchange rate difference is an accident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55998	The replica matches Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u55999	It would not be good if at this point the government was trying to enter the domain of monetary policy and we are still assessing that monetary government has the opportunity to solve this problem. The biggest part of the doubt that often falls at these moments is whether the really charged exchange rate differences were also bank liabilities at their rates. Therefore, if the bank had indeed had 100 kuna exchange rates and charged 100 kuna then the bank had no income on exchange rate differences and then it is acceptable that the creditor in that part had such monetary policy to bear the exchange rate differences. Whether that's right or not, the only answer he can give is the National Bank. The National Bank knows very clearly every business bank in which the currencies were in charge, how many exchange rate differences they had, and also knows how much they were charged. Therefore, in one of the reports, the National Bank can clear our doubts that there is really no doubt about the banking system or the National Bank's data. So let's get all that information and we'll discuss the problem next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56000	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate and I give my word to my colleague, Peter Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56001	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. During the debate on clubs, there was a lot of words about all the details of this law on possible consequences positive, negative, there were conflicting opinions that were normal in a democratic society in one Parliament about whether this law would achieve objectives or other dilemmas whether and in what way the banks would be aware of some area that would be questionable. By reading the explanations of this law and its provisions and actually referring to the life practice that we all know, more or less most of us in life have had the opportunity to be in debt to the bank and to raise a loan for this or that, the question is, how is it possible that here today at 11 months 2013, we are discussing this? How could it have taken us so many years to react to something that was completely obvious and completely clear? There was a hypothesis this morning that the only reason why this law was passed by the Franak Association and the problem with changing interest rates on loans in Swiss francs, and actually if even that episode were put aside, there were hard and fat reasons. If we want to establish a fair society, a responsible society, a transparent society to pass such a law and to put things in order. It is an amazing fact that banks had the full freedom to create interest rates when changing rates. If there were no clear parameters that determine to what extent, under certain circumstances, the bank may make certain changes to the damages of the debtor. We allowed Croatia to enter the consumer society club and to raise consumer credits in this way. The final sequence of 21 billion kunas in the responsibility of Croatian citizens. The ultimate coincidence for banks, large or small, but constant profits measured in billions of kunas over the past 10 years. And then of course, we all use tricks, so we Google a little before these discussions, and then we read some articles, and then you come up with one piece of information that says bank profits in 2011 are 4.7 billion kuna. I'm no expert in judging whether it's big or small enough but amazingly in the same region our first neighbours in the recession circumstances of the bank in Slovenia are hoarding up losses. How is it possible that in Slovenia because of the recession, they accumulate losses and still record billions of kunas in Croatia? At the expense of the rights of Croatian citizens who had a contractual relationship with banks. At the expense of that right. How is it possible that we have allowed so many years of functioning in this way and that someone has not previously reacted and protected Croatian citizens in a completely elementary, simple logic that this type of risk should still be shared in a contractual relationship. Crying over the fate of banks, so we all know about God that all mechanisms have banks to secure their loans. We all know what the security coefficients are, or what the ratios are. We know they don't lend loans in a way that says mortgage 1:1. That the ratios were 2:1, 3:1 and that the banks did not fail regardless of the recession, regardless of the problems they are experiencing, unlike the banks of all Croatian citizens, especially these 267, I think thousands with blocked accounts. It's been years, banks have good score and what kind of score Croatian citizens have, the kind of policy they have in the past 10 years, 12 years regardless of parties and options or government. I'm not alluding to the individual responsibility of any government but to say in general what have we afforded our people? We've allowed them to be denied equality and fair party and that's the responsibility of politics. Why did I apostrophe in my exposure to this and not get into the details? The details were explained by the others. But there are more of these things in Croatian society. The other day there was a debate on the report from the Competition Protection Agency, which she presented to us in the report that she punished some of the bus drivers in Međimurje and some 7.8 bakers in Osijek and the cartels are shaking the Croatian agricultural sector. Completely open without fear and without complexes. Even through the PR agencies, they also make press releases following agreements which conflict with the provisions of the Competition Act. And that's what Croatian politics has watched for many years and no one has talked about it. There are ladies and gentlemen more. And there's still work ahead of him to clean up things like that. So no matter what the big one gets mixed up, don't let the ministers lose your dick. Go ahead. You don't need a poster of fate or telecommunications companies. Unfortunately, we had to withdraw that law. I defended him on behalf of the CNS, and I claim we should have left that law. But we had to pull him out for political reasons, unfortunately. There's no fear for banks, no fear for big corporations. Nothing will happen to them. They've built a system of their own protection very well over time and all the conjectures of potentially harmful to each other in a small relationship. If we seek to be a fair social state, the state of transparent processes and procedures, then only such laws and efforts by the executive authority and Parliament's decisions have the basis. If we ignore it, I'm afraid few of us will be able to shave their consciences in a few years' time in front of the mirror. You have my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56002	We have a single line reported, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56003	My colleague Baranovic, I agree with everything that you have said, so here, just before I walked through the hallway, I looked at the inscription that says here, you would have Ante Starčević, which says that the man who deserves to be a representative of the people must know or know the aspirations and desires of his constituents, so those who chose him and all the people. So, both your debate and what he told us 100 years ago, Ante Starcevic is actually what, in some ways, only this law brings. If we were to compare this law to the one which Mr. Prime Minister Orban made to banks that are much sharper and when they threatened to leave Hungary, so by leaving Hungary, he said, go, go, go, if you do not get out of Hungary freely. They didn't leave, no one left Hungary. There is therefore room for and measure and additional measures to force this people not to engage in debt slavery as it has so far been for the banking sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56004	The replica corresponds to the respected Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56005	Dear colleague Grubisic, you've noticed some things, we rarely agree with you and I, but here today seems to be the case. The capital had never lost itself along the way, world wars were going on and Switzerland was always calm. Because capital always knew how to protect itself. And we here in this House are paid to be realistic about this capital, because it is necessary, to be correct to it but primarily to protect the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, many policy set have forgotten these over the past 20 years. And I take it as my right to sometimes, from time to time in parliamentary debates, all the colleagues and colleagues I respect regardless of parties and political options remind us that it is our duty. I hope we'll take more care of it in the future and not bow down to a golden calf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56006	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It is next, dear colleague Hrvoje Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56007	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, ministers with a deputy, colleagues and fellow MPs. So related to existential problems that users have with the currency clause in francs. Unfortunately, many of my friends and acquaintances have this problem. I must say that during the previous period, the consumer was in no way legally protected from the will of the other party, the stronger the contracting parties or the bank, and was fully burdened with change and exchange rates and interest. Therefore, there were no rules, or conditions that must be met so that banks could change and increase the interest rate. The banks simply sent a notice on the amount of larger, new interest rates and the new annuity of the loan. I note that in these cases, the moss is about buying the first real estate, not some luxury, and this purchase protects every regulated country from this kind of behavior, because the transaction has been realised precisely to solve a housing issue, which is actually a fundamental existential human need. At the same time, in times of the increase in the course of francs, interest rates increase for all who are from everyone's point of view, especially those who regularly pay, and who have all the necessary collateral so as to guarantee, mortgages, real estate insurance and similar unreasonablely increase the credit price. Thus, a part of the users who regularly paid for the anuities also put them in a position that they could no longer do so. It is also very questionable from which sources the bank has placed loans, since the credit is usually placed from the savings of citizens, which in most cases in the euro, partly in kunas, and probably the banks gave credits precisely from these funds, the loans tied to the Swiss franc and the increase in exchange rates and interest demanded a return of significantly larger annuities, as if physically it had to return the Swiss franc itself. This resulted in an unfair extra profit on the benefit of credit users. In this case, it is hundreds of millions of kunas paid to banks by credit users as the difference between the contract and the current annuity in kunas. This money would have probably not gone to banks in particular to meet the basic needs of life, increase the quality of life, increase the index of retail trade, help manufacturers and traders and collect taxes increase the inflow into the state budget to better finance both health and education and pensions and everything else. So this is how money remained as an extra profit to banks that sent these funds to their home banks in other countries where they do not treat their clients in this way, even on the contrary, the interest rates in their countries of origin are three times less. These types of loans were offered by almost all banks in Croatia except smaller banks which do not have a large share in such loans, and now allow colleagues from the Finance Committee to hear a concrete example, so I will repeat it here, I think it is a good opportunity. So where in this real example, because of the rise in interest and exchange rates, the current annuity is 68% higher than the initial one. So a loan was raised with a currency clause in francs of 67,000 francs at the time of payment of 25 years. A kuna equivalent of 500 000 kuna was paid as the principal credit where, of course, the credit user Frank had not seen physically. After six years of increased war payments, the user paid the bank a share of the principal and interest amounting to 250,000 kuna, of course which is most of the interest. With today's day, now that's what's particularly interesting, after six years of paying off the principal interest-free loan is 600,000 kuna, so after six years of paying off an increase of 100,000 kuna. This means that after the paid half of the original principal in kunas, the user is not a smaller principal but is even 20% larger than the time when he started his loan payment six years ago. And it's important to say that the user still has 19 years left to repay the loan. To me personally, and to people who have credits in francs, this relationship is more like interest rather than a regulated credit relationship in the rule of law. I note that real estate cannot be sold even for the return of most of the principal, so that there is no other solution for the user than that the state intervenes exactly as it does this change of law. The users of the loan were also important to say, on several occasions, complaining to banks, writing letters, going there in person, and talking about this really once illogical bank behaviour, but unfortunately they never got an overwhelming answer about what was actually going on. So in case the bank due to non-payments, here's what happened to many, seized real estate at best will be sold possibly for half the value, let's say often for a third given the situation. So the credit user's going down the money he's already paid. Its debt remains from the difference in the sale price of the principal loan and, of course, what is the worst version of many has happened and has been brought to remain on the street. So there's no real estate, but that's why there's a loss of money and he still has a very, very large amount of credit to pay. Of course this law should be supported, I support it because I think it is really useful and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56008	Thank you. The replica was reported by Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56009	Thank you very much. Comrade Neklic, you spoke of this particular case that you cited and detailed in your presentation. In fact, it only says that banks have made a lot more money on the exchange rate, on the Swiss exchange rate differences than on interest. That is exactly what Mr. Maric has said second time in today's replicas. When you talk about extra profits, you said banks, namely bank profits last year, in 2012, there were 2 billion and 740 million kunas, and 21,000 people were employed in banking. So when we divide it, so 2 billion and 740 million with 21,000 employees turns out to be paid by one employee and by a cleaning lady and by a clerk and by a reference and by every 130476 kuna. But who's handing out bonuses? It's not the cleaning lady, it's not the maid, it's the manager. The fear of this law is precisely fear for their bonuses, nothing else. And the state, Ministry of Finance, the Croatian National Bank, could have found some other instrument along with this law that we said we would accept and we would raise our hand for it, not to sell the Croatian Post Bank. Therefore, the Croatian Post Bank may have been able to serve as an instrument that would eventually be opposed to other banks rather than to show some kind of a different business. Either the Croatian National Bank or who is in charge, I do not know exactly that the interest in these banks cannot be greater if it is in Germany 3% or 2% in Croatia cannot be greater than 1% more than it is in Germany for the same bank. I won't speak the names of the banks. But here we are, as you said, interest is two or three times greater than in the home countries from which these banks originate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56010	The replica corresponds to a colleague of Hrvoja Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56011	My colleague Grubisic, so here I am really glad that we agree, the problem is evident and precisely because the problem is so and clearly important to support this law, to adopt, to adopt and to try to help people who are in trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56012	We continue with an individual debate that Igor Radenovic also applied for.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56013	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's the debate slowly entering the ever calmer waters which always pleases me, but even more glad to go further and further towards consensus, i.e.. as according to the support of this law. And the more I read the debates of my colleagues, especially on behalf of the clubs, but here's this individual debate, it seems to me that we're getting closer and closer to the goal and we're actually coming to a common position that this law needs to be passed independently on what this law means to say we're fixing for the second time this year. If he needs it and we're fixing it for the third time, and it's clearly necessary. It may not be the happiest solution to discuss without being sure, at least that's how it was before noon, which is the contents of this counter-proposal to say so to the banks and these amendments. In the meantime, we all managed to actually see more or less of the amendment and in fact the counter-proposal of the bank, which the minister said, in a way, announced that it could be adopted, so that we know more or less what we're talking about, so maybe this example and the debate that has been going on for a year and the minister's willingness to come here and the night before he agrees to a particular compromise, and the government as a whole, is talking about how much will, desire and effort has been put into this law and how much readiness and on compromise... to pass this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The resistances that have existed all these years are too high to speak. There were probably a lot of those under the table. Only the minister and his associates know that when they wrote that law. There were a lot of those media outlets, and we know what budgets they have available and have stakeholders at their disposal today. It was and I say a lot of pressure from stakeholders. Someone also mentioned the last hour and the European Federation of Banks' interesting association, so I didn't. I'm a little emotional, I'm not sure if I'm happy that there's still a compromise proposal and that as things stand now, the law will be enforceable without these threats, uncertainty and constitutional lawsuits, etc. Or perhaps sad that this compromise could not have happened before, i.e. that banks have failed to wake up before and accept their responsibility on the one hand and for the present, and on the other hand to think long-term about their position. In fact, we often say that banks in Croatia are in foreign ownership. They are foreign owned but they are still Croatian banks, they still have Croatian management. We've known people for many years at the head of these banks. Some of them were senior officials in the former Croatian governments, and I would expect you to let me say a little bit more responsibility here and here and as people and feelings for social justice and views, given that they performed these important social functions and responsibilities. Therefore, where this country is going and that all of us together with it have a common future but also responsibility for its operation. We talk a lot in this assembly as much as this government tried and did and built around discharging the economy, so now I don't list all the reasons in that direction, all the moves in that direction. This move goes in favour of the citizens, for the benefit of the citizens in charge. We said 22 billion stands above them. Four are basic, let me just have a few sentences, so four basic groups of changes in this law. So these are the changes over the amount of fees, about current accounts, about the limit of interest for the future and this highest one, the most debate is about it which actually led to the sharing of risks over future loans, and in fact for this period of boredom, so on the famous Swiss. As far as the current accounts are concerned, I was reminded by this atmosphere as much as the one around the fiscal registers when all the media went up about us destroying both production and employment on the one hand, and on the other hand that we're going to go down to the bottom to all the citizens. Let's remember the title, it's not today's electronics problem to list what's been said in those days, so that today here in this assembly we can unisonly discuss that the restriction on current accounts is i.e. rules of the game that are introduced around current accounts a far better solution than that cowboy style to say that which existed before that you, overnight of a certain bank, not everything, we always have to break it apart, there were both more correct and less correct banks but I'm saying that overnight someone can cut you off from the current account. A solution you can now say but written within 30 days. If you don't have to offer under the same conditions a year's consumer credit, I think it's a correct solution. As regards the fee, it was also agreed to protect the weaker, unilateral decisions very often changed 4.2 billion if I'm not mistaken we had a recent report from the CNB 4.2 billion is the total income of the union income of banks by fees, which is about one fifth of their core business. So, interest income, interest income. Which is a really big amount. I think we're gonna have a hard time finding that comparison. And someone said there and the bank's profits are about 4.7 billion, so they're practically not the size of a comparison. They're not causally related, but they're at a height somewhere. Therefore, the amount of the compensation is almost equal to the profits made by the banks in the previous year. As for the interest rate limits, there were certain critical tones here. I think we've reached a good solution here, a double fuse. Therefore, the average interest rate and with these amendments is defined for these three currency groups compared to the average method determined by the CNB twice a year. One third higher for housing loans and half for consumer loans, and with another fuse that the effective interest rate cannot be greater than 3% must actually be at least 3% lower than the tensile and minimum 1% for consumers. In today's conditions, when it's 12% tight, it means that the maximum interest for residents could be 9% and for consumers 11%. And allow a few sentences, therefore, and about this most important one. The media's most interesting topic, obviously, is that there are existing contracts in Swiss. When we had the first reading of the law, I also said that we would have to reach some compromise solution that certainly not everyone would be pleased with. But undoubtedly, it was even a dilemma whether or not we need this law, but I think that here's my colleague Nejdić before me is with this living example, and there's a lot of such living examples, proved and proved that this law was obviously needed because as much as we defend any other arguments but really logical argument if you pay for something full of six or seven years and then your principal is bigger than before that something fat is wrong and that you have to change it. Now, everyone is responsible for this situation. It was five, six years ago, everyone was a little snooze about everything, so I agree with those views that there was a certain responsibility and a certain citizen. That's when those loans were lower. But there was also the CNB, and there were a lot of critical voices about it. I'm not going to talk about the government's behavioral behaviors at least as important as that, but also. But also in the banks themselves. And I'm going to connect to the housing savings that are coming to us soon. Namely, we know that certain banks have their housing savings under their control, and very often they have been sent from these housing savings, take incentives from these same referents take incentives and move here to Swiss, we will allow you more etc., etc. With regard to exposure to currency risk, therefore, a lot has been said here and I join my colleagues, especially my colleague Maric is persistent about it if we can encourage the fourth pillar of power to be more determined on this side, I would also be happy about it. What do you say to the conclusion? This government obviously has courage and has the determination to enter all gray zones, in all need to make moves, to pass laws like I said if it should be two three times a year that will improve the position of weaker ones on the market and that will allow what is particularly important to enable an even market match both banks themselves and regulate market relations. Let's not forget, here's my time at the end, not all the banks if we're already on the subject of Swiss people equally guilty to say so. Many large banks, banks that had their mothers abroad, have withdrawn these loans, many banks that are slightly smaller and which only operate on the Croatian market or on a significantly narrow market have less impact weights and have far less impact on these loans and have not brought their clients into the situation they have brought them into. Here's the conclusion again, the law is needed and as things stand, I hope it will be adopted by a great majority if not unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56014	Thank you. Boro Grubisic again called for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56015	Thank you very much. I will begin my colleague Rajedenovic, a respected colleague of Radjenovic's, from the end. In fact, it could be said that the government has the courage to deal with this problem by withdrawing the amendment proposed in Articles 3 and 4 of the final draft of the law. Then you could really say it with full right. This way it might just be part of it. Secondly, you spoke of a consensus in this High House of all parties regarding this law, but I neither see nor believe in this consensus. We've seen exhibitions and debates on this side of the HDZ about how they see the thing, I wouldn't want to interpret their surveillance and their views on it. But I remember the surveillance and attitudes of their prime minister from a few years ago, who is now not elsewhere, is not so much in the public eye that in the appeals of the banks that have swept this Croatian people and the Swiss citizens, he appealed here I am sending the appeal to the banks not to do so, which they clearly never listened to. You also talked about these banks of ours, and with foreign property are our people in management positions. It's true, and these people of ours would be acting like scales of these foreign banks, but they don't care about the state of society or the state. This is what bothers Croatia, and I would say the moral disorder is the lack of one morale both business and human. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56016	Igor Radjenović corresponds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56017	Thank you. Thank you first to those who reminded me because I asked... to answer the reply to the line. I asked for the amendment you're looking for. Well, I understand, dear colleague Grubisic, I understand that you are somewhat less pleased about this amendment, although I personally think that ha hear art policy... law-making. This is obviously a solution that is in some way harmonised if I understand the Minister well and with the CNB and this is what we can achieve at this time and what is not in my opinion is not such a step back from the original intended solution and would not want to suggest to you because you yourself will decide both personally and in the name of the club and it would not be a key reason for me to give up on the support of this law if all others satisfy you. As far as the consensus is concerned, I've actually realized that you're thinking about that side of the assembly, that there's a lot of other ways to say different thinking, dissonant tones. It's not the only point around which maybe there's no agreement that doesn't have to be bad because we're all used to parties being monolithic and everyone thinking the same thing, but I think it's good that people have their own thoughts, and of course clubs have to conclude and make common conclusions and adopt common views. They were not fully uniform today, but I heard and listened more to those who followed this law, and I heard and many colleagues from HDZ who spoke affirmably under this law, and Mrs. Dalic made those criticisms she made on behalf of the HDZ Club in another direction. where she was critical and where she was showing dissatisfaction, she was not talking about the subject of this law but about some general solution to this justice, so I told her in the replica that this law could only be said to be the subject of this law, not beyond that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56018	A counterpart, Drazen Djurovic, also applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56019	Thank you. So here's a colleague has a study of the Institute of Public Finance which was made at Wüstenrot's housing savings company that is more of a point concerning these next points of the agenda, but in that analysis it's interesting that they also made an analysis of the average interest rates paid by Wustenrot to the resident savings company and there is, therefore, from that analysis of the Institute of Public Finance an average weighted interest rate on loans in 2012. 4.89%. So it's about the rate we're waiting to find out what it's going to be, and then we're going to kind of retroactively find out at what limits the prescribed rates are going to move in the light of this amendment regarding the government. During the period 2001 to 6 months 2013, the average weighted interest rate in Wüstenrot residential savings bank in the period from 12 years was 5.01. Both rates are significantly lower than the average interest rate that the CNB has shown in the past few years as the average interest rate per housing loan paid in the Republic of Croatia. So obviously the interest in the housing savings is lower than the total interest paid in the banks. I once again and we fear that these interest rates that are shown will be so high when added for another third that the impact of the restrictive measures will not be achieved at all. And that's why it would be good if we knew before the vote what the interest rates are, so in which values we speak and what we will then vote on as a limit of the maximum interest rates for both housing and other consumer loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56020	Igor Radjenović corresponds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56021	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That an esteemed colleague this will probably be a topic at the next point if I'm not mistaken, today we're also talking about housing savings, and the management you've provided accurate data that the average there is lower especially for at Wüstenrot. Well, that's my main argument and there it was, I say there's going to be a chance to talk about it, but when you look at housing savings and I'm going to mention it again at Wüstenrot and I'm going to advertise because it's a good housing savings facility and you're only looking at that housing savings system in the way it's set up, and you should survive if other housing savings would, and I'm not going to mention the worst ones following that and that kind of system then our housing savings system could work. And that's why it's a good solution that we have in this bill that for a year we all stand by and see what and how we can achieve through the housing system and encourage the economy itself to build to help young families but also get a cheaper loan and what's very important to get credit in kunas. These other savings that I say, and I said that, and in my debate, they were doing something a little weaker that they wanted in the past years and those greater incentives and they talked to their clients in a way that they could transfer them to regular loans, and then they would go to Swiss and they would fool those people at the time when the credits in Switzerland were given, you know that then the choice was lower interest rates and everything was easier to get a bigger credit. It's a subject we obviously need to discuss. But I'm saying, once again, housing savings that if they're on Wustenrot's level. As far as your subject is concerned, the minister has promised that we will until the vote and get these tables,... The state of the Croatian National Bank so I believe it will be easier for your club to decide then and I hope it will decide. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56022	We continue with an individual debate, so I give my word to my colleague Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56023	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, let me say something about the Consumer Credit Act. The fact is and the truth is Croatia is a country that lives and survives on credit. Croatian citizens, the majority of Croatian citizens also live on loan and for the payment of loans. Most of them on those big deadlines for 20, 30 years because they were certain possibilities. We heard today that the Croatian banking system is also very, very stable among the most stable in the European Union. In two years, only two smaller banks fell, Credo Bank, the Bank Center. Some have lost there in those banks a certain amount. We also know of some local self-governments that have lost 20 million and 30 million of their own deposits. Those who ran those banks, some are in criminal proceedings, some are partners of the state because it's kind of a rule in the Republic of Croatia that if you owe 2, 3, 10, 100 million kuna, a billion then you're a partner, if you owe 1,000, 1500 kuna, 2000 then we block you nicely so you pay it and we all talk about worries. What happened in a few or two years? The number of citizens who lost their jobs somewhere around 60,000, which was somewhere in February last year, was 60,000 more than in 2011. Today, on today, there are 11 thousand more than last year on the same day. The number of blocked accounts, we heard today only 6 months out of 255 grand in the 3rd month at 290 thousand in the 10th month from 18.4 billion to 22.6 billion almost means... thousands of citizens more, 4 billion kunas more in just 6 months when we're talking about blockades. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we compare it to 31. 1. In 2012, there were 211 thousand 234 citizens in the blockade and 13.2 billion blockades, which means that in two years, the number of blocked by 79 thousand and the number of blockades, i.e. The size of the 9.4 billion kuna blockade. But we also have the other side that the deposits of the citizens in the banks are growing, armed with savings based on 160 billion kuna. And the recession. So what's the problem? Do we and the Parliament have parliamentary representatives, do we have a loan? We've got him I think almost everyone. What made us have a loan? Now that's the question and the beginning of all the problems we're talking about today. I took my credit in a time that was marked as a time of economic growth, investment, a strong construction sector, should have, living in a tourist resort invested, so we chose the models and ways of the bank in which we would do it. The credit I've taken since 2005 and I haven't thought about how it's going to be 2013. The state is stable, the finances are stable, the investments are going, everything is kind of complicated. Did other citizens do that? I believe so. In the period 2000 to 2008, I thought of it as normal, let us remember this boom of construction, numerous buildings, apartments, houses, buying real estate apartments, cars and everything else. However, in 2008, the financial sector crisis across the world in developed countries, in developed societies, changes the absolute relationship both towards loans and towards the economy and to the lives of each individual. And the successful ones weren't immune to it, and it got to them. The stronger the crisis, and we can see that in this country it hasn't even touched the bottom yet, the more the citizens have problems. If someone is then 2005, '06. In the family he had incomes of ten thousand kunas he had normalized himself to that amount and believed it would last. He took a loan of two, three thousand kunas to the war, five thousand kuna, believing that he could repay it within a certain time limit. 10, 15, 20 years, 30 years. Is that a people thing? I don't think so. But there's been a problem, we see the number of unemployed growing. We have families with ten thousand kunas, today they may have five, and the loan remains the same, either two or three or five thousand kunas. People get in trouble. That's why we don't need to be surprised by the number of blocked accounts because there's a major and basic cause. It's not that the citizens don't want to pay, the citizens just can't pay. Many say in good times they've taken credit in these bad times, unfortunately, it's hard or I can't return it at all. I have a loan in euros. In a way, in a house that was freed from credit, I myself became a tenant with a good decent war where, let's say, in Zagreb, I could rent a big apartment, but who is to blame for it. Did I make a mistake? That's probably what every citizen asks today. Is this what the state did to me, did she lead me to it? And that's the question, maybe it is and maybe it isn't. But we believed that it would be stable, so we took on the long term. And of course, what's going on? You take the loan, after 6-7 years of paying off that loan, you pay 10% of the principal and 40% of the interest. Why aren't we responding in that segment? Why don't we get the banks to evenly schedule it? We can't. And their cost won't be less then, I believe it won't. What are they afraid of? Should we get back before credit time, not make enough money? I think you should think about it, too, because that's what most loans are for. You're welcome to pay off the interest first, and when you get there somewhere at 10 or 15, then you have the right to return the rest, but we're fully charged. What else is going on with those payments? Early payment fees, why so high? Why don't banks want to sign off on mortgages five months after you've paid off your loan? They don't just want to. When you sign up in two days, when you need to sign up and you're blocked for 5-6 months as a free citizen to have your property and they don't want to, and that's where we can react. Unfortunately, we're not responding. What we pay for every day, and we don't even have the right to ask questions or to ask questions or not to object. Just some of the benefits we pay or costs on our gross income: income tax, tax, pension contributions, contributions to health care, excise duty on alcohol, excise duty on tobacco, excise duty on coffee, excise duty on gasoline, special fees on the construction of highways, taxes on water, fees on development, fees on renewable energy sources, electricity consumption, utility fee, taxes on cars, taxes on forest fruits, radio frequency fee, tv subscription, fixed phone connection subscription, land-water tax. We paid for everything, and we don't have any favors, and then 25% of VAT on every bought item, on every provided or received service, we pay for it, all of it, plus all these fees in the bank. Can the state react there? You got it. Why won't they? I don't know. And in the end, just something about a group that also exists, which calls itself "Touchy." It's a group of people, especially from the coastal and island parts that took loans right in Europe in some kind of cooperatives, in a way that the same ones were carried in bags, in suitcases, that today they have a lot of problems, that they've been taken away from real estate, that they've come into a relationship where they can't even pay off, they're trying to fight alone, they don't see a way out. Why isn't the state taking care of them? I see that this group is already somewhere at 20 grand. In my place, dozens of people are afraid of how they're gonna run out of real estate. How did you get in on this? He says there's a bank, he's got his mark, now we hear no one knows what bank it is anymore. The money drove across the border in the suitcases. What now, where was the CNB? The CNB has accepted and some of these loans have registered, but a large part of these loans are not registered and we are as a group, a large group of people in a major problem. This law unfortunately does not touch them and does not solve the minuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56024	Thank you very much. We're moving on to replicas now. First, it will be replicated by Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56025	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague. I'll start with the last thing you mentioned. You mentioned some parafiscal accusations and the state can, and it won't react, it's absolutely not true. This government has reacted greatly and abolished many parafiscal accusations and has abolished them. But let's go back to this example of yours. You said credit rates of two or three thousand kunas, so there's a lot of smaller apartments, that there's been an increase in the number of unemployed, which is the fact that the smaller incomes were per household or that they came from 10,000 to 5,000, that really all stands. But what you forgot to mention, and you said the loan remained the same, we're talking about Swiss, didn't stay the same. You've heard a colleague named Nekic and an example. I know many families whose war is precisely because of the Swiss of 3,000 kunas that they've domesticated have gone in a few months to 5000 kuna. I know it's kind of casual what I just said, but it's about your size. What's the problem? You mentioned that the CNB might not have been doing his job. I personally think the government didn't protect its citizens then either. The government didn't protect its citizens, if the citizens were naive and they were and they were all of us, or most of us, someone was yelling that there wasn't, we have some loans, they're often tied to Swiss, and we know what we're talking about. This government, apart from abolishing parafiscal intrusions, is really trying to make life easier for these citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56026	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56027	Thank you very much. My colleague Tomic, perhaps I said in my debate, means she hasn't changed but it's irrelevant too much means it's probably changing in Swiss, and it's changing in euro today. So today the course is historically the highest and all of us who are in euro are now paying, say, as opposed to 6 or 7 months 200 or 300 kuna, depending on the height of the war more. But my God, that's it. As for parafiscal duties, I don't know whether to call them parafiscal but there are certain fees and we don't get any service for them, and we have to pay them and pay them and none of these 20 that I've listed. Is there any reduction, so I don't think they are, all excise duties are more or less higher, all excise duties, the contribution to health care is somewhat smaller but not paid by the one who gets paid but by the employer, I can accept it. All these other charges that the state has an impact on are higher, so now we're raising the electricity price again because some fee has increased again. So that's the problem. And I think there's a space and we often talk about it here, that one part of the fee, and this one for the radio frequency, if we've talked about HAKOM, they have 100 million extras and they're putting up with that money, so let's talk and at least let's help make their costs smaller.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56028	The second line is Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56029	Thank you. Well, you mentioned exactly what happens when you pay off an anunnity that you pay off for years of credit, and then when you look at the payment plan that after a few years of paying off your loans, you didn't practically pay off any of the principals. And if you have any cash for early payment, you're practically at the start of payment for the principal. That's why we've just proposed an amendment to impose a commitment on banks to offer loans and payments in the wars as an equal model of paying off loans to banks. It is not ideal because of the size of those initial wars, however, it is much more just because the principal is equal in all the payments wars so that after some time payment each user feels significantly that he has already paid the principal. And the total amount paid through payments to wars is less than through repayment through anaities and at the same interest rate. Therefore, if the user of the borrower can withstand and is creditworthy then I think it would be at least fair to make it actually an equal payment to the wars which was the model of whether it was early in the 1990s. But in the last ten years, 15 years has simply disappeared and more or less annuity payments are there today. And as for bank behavior, I think that all of us, each of us or many of us, could show a whole series of examples of how banks behave arrogantly, arrogantly towards users. There is a Law on Mandatory Relations. But where is the Law on Mandatory Relations when it comes to individual users? Very far away, and where the CNB is just which it also has, there is a possibility of little regulation of bank behaviour and without the Law on Mandatory Relations. As an example, I'm going to say that banks, let's say, in 2007 for the same product group, determine that the interest on housing loans is 7%, 5 years later that 6 and a half percent, 5 years later is 5%. but does not change interest rates for those users of the same credit product before. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56030	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56031	Thank you very much. My colleague Đurić, I agree with you and I think you should think that way. The bank at the start of the loan will not be damaged. She if she'll be 20 years old you'll have the same interest you have right now, but let us at least pay off a piece of the principal. Because a lot of people could save themselves that way. However, I say while you pay off after 10 years only 20% of this loan and pay almost 100% of the interest you are simply unable again. You're returning 210 000 euros to 100,000 euros. Surely, citizens in other EU countries never do, and we are surprised that they are more developed or better, but unfortunately we are spending their capital. That's a fact. What they're earning, we're in debt, and we're spending what they're earning. Yeah, through credit. ... It is also possible to talk about it, but we are both in phase as a state and as individuals to spend unfortunately other people's profits. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56032	The third line is from counterpart Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56033	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Boric, you haven't talked much about the law, you've been pretty critical of the banks and their behaviour quite surprised why banks have listed a few cases where it's incorrect. And from your speech, it would be as if the banks had started acting like this on January 1st, 2012, when the Government of Zoran Milanovic sat down, and we hadn't noticed before, so you said I'd do all these bad things, so you said, you used a style figure we don't react to. Well, this is exactly the law we're responding to, and in this term, we're reacting for the second time, and we're reacting to this law in a way that, therefore, we're proposing, and I believe that we're all going to support it together, and we're proposing that foreign-cost fees, that bank fees be tied to the real cost they have. So then we introduce a mandatory written warning to change interest rate and currency, so we're talking about changing interest rate. So the fixed part and the variable part, so we prescribe the margin. So through this law this change of course we return the Swiss to it I won't, so we prescribe the maximum interest rate we said which can be, so we tie that maximum interest rate to an effective interest rate, so we're talking about current bills to offer a payment plan etc. etc. As for the general part, here's to having another 30 seconds, so I'm going to repeat what more or less your dear colleague Tomic told you. So we're working on unloading the economy. 2% of health care, parafiscal imposes, pre-debt settlements to fight liquidity, and then about paying taxes that you call tax presses, and perhaps the best example are fiscal cashiers. About a general arrangement of the state when Mr Milanovic said so it is not very well understood, but I think it is very clear to all well-intentioned and visible what this government is doing, that we are doing the state at all and that we are really doing it. So it's not true we're not responding. We react with a full heart, and that's how we'll proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56034	And this replica corresponds to colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56035	In my debate, I spoke about what I believe lives almost 90 percent of people today. They have a problem and I was talking about the way they might have gotten into that problem. I may not have hit every single one of them, but I also warned of a group that is also in trouble, and unfortunately this law won't help them, it won't help them. And the group itself realizes that it has no support or state, that it has no support or judicial authorities and is trying to find its own way to some truth. Now, what she did is what the government did is that in the period 2000 to 2008, there was an expansion of credit and credit and at that time the largest number of Croatian citizens was in debt and he created something with these money. He was either buying real estate or movable property or certain items. A small number of them I believe raised loans to spend and spend on luxury. And it was seen as a need and that's what's normal in the world. I'm in charge today, so 20 years from now, let's say 20 years back to what I created today. Now, did the one in 2004 or 2003 or 2002 know what would happen in 2013? I believe it's neither 2008 nor 2011. Those who began to be in debt in 2009, 2010 are much, much less because they realized that time was unstable and that today we unfortunately have a completely halted construction sector, in Primorje, no one is building anything on the islands even though there may be money. What the Law on legalization of illegal objects, which certain new rules, which fear of investing all the money ended up being seen in deposits because deposits grow, especially after the season and we see what Croatian citizens then do in fear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56036	We're going to hear another replica of Ivan Shuker's colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56037	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Boric, you said the state could react. In this case and this point of the agenda, the state is a very flexible term. But when we come down to who can react, then most of the story falls to an institution that was once blasphemous to say in this House that something was wrong or that something was wrong. But it's very interesting that we here today speak all the time in Swiss loans. No one got a loan in Swiss francs but got a loan in Swiss francs. And I've said it a few times in this assembly. So, as Minister of Finance, I warned the citizens that there were certain traps hiding there. But what's crucial and that's when every year the control of the CNB of business banks was carried out, then it was necessary to see if they really were those loans they gave in Swiss were they in charge, did they have so many Swiss? And if we had that information, then all these arguments would simply be neither would they exist. Because there is no man here in this House who will not side with Croatian citizens. And that's, and I'm going to say something about that later when I speak in my individual debate, the key thing. Because look at your colleagues and colleagues at the moment of the euro-price trade mark was about 7.5 kuna, and the price of the dollar was 8.12. And today you have a situation because of the various circumstances of the monetary policy of the United States that today is the exchange rate of $5.6 kuna and the exchange rate is 7.59 kuna. Now look what happened. However, it is our happiness that the state was not in debt in dollars, and somehow the tradition of the German brand and the euro has kept us for this. Therefore, it is clear exactly who should have reacted, but I repeat not once I got on this side of the assembly on my nose when I dared mention any CNB. Therefore, I am glad that today’s situation is such that it can be said that everyone is doing their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56038	Time. Minister Slavko Linic has now re-applyed to the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56039	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I report to an individual debate only regarding the operation of illegal credit institutions. Saying the state doesn't do anything then maybe I'm sorry we're not talking about it anymore. One of the major moves for the Ministry of Finance was when we returned to work on the domestic market by abolishing customs duties at the western customs borders. At this point, knowing the huge problems caused by Croatian citizens who were engaged in illegal work are completely under investigation. And lawyers who were dealing money, carrying money, pushing citizens and giving them under their noses the signature of a mortgage agreement. And we're also trying to find the responsibilities of the notaries who were just pronouncing the signatures, and we know that neither of them were allowed to sign. The illegal savings banks, however, did not get any legality, no license and could not operate in Croatia. But the haughtiness of some people who call themselves entrepreneurs is the reason that they didn't sit in the car of Croatian citizens and at least take them to Austria to close jobs there and there to confirm the notebooks there that lawyers were writing contracts but were doing it illegally in Croatia. The Ministry of Finance is processing all of them, and we're going to try to take away everyone's license. But the truth is, the Ministry of Finance also struggles to make a clear decision that all these contracts have been made in Croatia and without licenses are declared void and that all Croatian citizens' obligations have been annulled by the foundation of invalidity. Unfortunately, it's not the Executive Authority's business. It's the judicial authorities. But we will create all preconditions whatever was done in Croatia and if the citizen has not crossed the border of Croatia will be declared void. And that, unfortunately, with a somewhat longer procedure because it's a judicial procedure, it really ensures that his assets don't fail. Because it wasn't just those bad contracts that were cheating contracts. The money has already been taken away at the award, the smaller amounts and everything else have been given. This is why the Ministry of Finance is very serious about this and we want to sanction those who participated in this because it was a dirty illegal business and to return all their property to the citizens. This may take a while for the judiciary to be there, but the citizens will be protected by their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56040	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. I give a word to my esteemed colleague, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56041	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary and Mr. Assistant Minister. I've started my discussion on the board and I'm going to start today because I haven't yet received an answer from the minister, has there been an agreement between the government and the banks? And I said that this key provision, along with all these provisions that I will talk about later, about solving the problem of citizens in charge of Swiss francs, reminds them of two ditches and if the government and the banks are not agreeing on, unfortunately, it may happen that it should snap and that what the minister said several times today may happen, and then unfortunately, there is finally there, so I can even say an easy predictable outcome, which will eventually eventually be paid by Croatian citizens. And that may be why, and I am glad that the debate has now come into calmer waters for the simple reason that when we talk about banks about Croatian citizens' loans then through these three banking crises and during some time Croatian citizens have certain traumas and good luck and the commission of Croatian citizens has returned to business banks. However, what I would like to say is some kind of credit expansion that was created there about 10, 11 years ago when it was seen that Croatia would start negotiations with the EU when capital began to arrive and when money appeared at a given moment in the Croatian market as the cheapest goods to come and all those who placed it competed in how they would invent the way that money was placed in Croatia. Why? Because even then, although it was historically low interest rates in both the world and Croatia, the interest rate in Croatia was a relatively safe source of profit. And the second thing, given the standard of Croatian citizens, to economic growth which was 4.5% on everything that happened in the Republic of Croatia, all these loans did not reveal any uncertainty and that the bank would find themselves in the problems in which citizens are present. And they showed up there somewhere in 2005 at a significant amount in Swiss. Personally then, as minister here is that colleague Linic can confirm because for many years we have been in different functions a little bit on the one hand warning citizens that something that is extremely high and extremely low is dangerous. Unfortunately, people when they want to buy something when the interest rate is lower by 2 or 3 percentage points at that point, they should say it honestly and openly. Each of us thinks so, and every citizen is more logical to take what is cheaper and so, unfortunately, people are in charge, and everything was well regrettable until the course of the franc at the time of the financial economic crisis in the world for this reason or for that reason just exploded. He came from about £4.70 last year to nearly 7 kuna, almost 7 kuna. And now you look at the one in charge, so he didn't owe himself in Swiss, but only the Swiss were the currency base, so 470,000 kuna was suddenly owed to him by the principal who jumped to 700 thousand kuna. And now you can do that exhibition with interest rates as much as you want, because if the interest rate was what I know 2 or 3 so she jumped to 4 or 5 and you re-cut it to 3% that big difference in the principal, unfortunately you can't reduce it. Because if it's a 100 thousand Swiss franc loan on average, it's back to, say, three, three, three, five thousand francs a year, so you can imagine that in five years it's back fifteen thousand. But when you turned these other 85 on the new course you were far longer than... so that's true why someone didn't want to react? And that's why I said today that when we take things out of the context of time and space, then it seems a lot different. Today, both the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by being in EU status that we are not under the status of being blackmailed about the negotiations of this or that has much stronger leverage and by pressing against the banks of certain things. These are facts of truth that cannot be ignored here. The CNB is also slowly coming out of the lap to control this High House. Well, you remember when we passed this HNB Act how controversial was only that provision that had to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament. How many times have they returned this law to us from Brussels because practically the CNB wanted to remove completely from the control of this High House, it is practically in Frankfurt and there is a deal with all the central banks. And now you see that it is also proposed to create some kind of banking union and that one institution will control all the banks that are in the euro area but will watch what happens to banks that are outside the euro area. So these are facts that neither we nor we should run from. And what is proposed in this law is not disputed to be with banks if there is a possibility and defines compensation and to define a minus citizen. It's the only thing that we have to understand about citizens, too, is that no one went hohstapleing them and luxury to the minus. Perhaps some percentage of the irresponsible did so, but all the rest of them unfortunately went because they could not settle their obligations. And that minus has unfortunately become a way of surviving in the Republic of Croatia and all of our citizens are using it regardless of whether they belong to the left or right political option, unfortunately they all live in the same environment and use it equally. If banks want to turn it into some kind of loan for a year with a favourable interest, the logical thing is that citizens will accept it. But why did the citizens go to that minus on the current account or minus on the cards? Because they couldn't get any short-term credit, because if they got an interest rate, they'd have been right around their necks. And that was why this happened. Nothing happened by accident. Today, the situation in the Republic of Croatia is slightly different, some things can be discussed today. We should also not ignore the maximum interest on housing loans and consumer loans. The amount the state owes the key to everything. And I'm talking about that security coefficient not for the first time in this house. I think he's in Croatia somewhere between 3 and 3.5 now, don't you, Mr. Minister? Three years ago, Slovenia was 0.75 and Croatia was 3.5. Now look practically at the start Slovenians paid almost 2.65, 2.75%-to-point lower interest rate than the Republic of Croatia. and today when someone is in charge of the state starts from those 3.5 and then is built and comes to 6, 6,5, 7 as far as it comes but then everyone uses it to practically use it as some kind of reference size by which they will also get loans from Croatian citizens and Croatian businesses tomorrow. And so when we talk about all this together, this cannot be derived from the context of that time and the space in which it happens. It is simply a measure that, if the minister succeeds in agreeing with the banks for these interest rates he spoke of at the end of his exhibit this morning, it is a measure that solves the problems of those who are in charge of the Swiss francs in the past. But one real question arises, what about all those citizens who, for one reason or another, cannot repay their loans in the future. So that's the same problem, it's a matter of social policy. It can't be solved by this law. But what I said on the occasion, and that's what I said today in the replica in the morning, when it came to the law on the write-off of interest and credit reprogramme, I'm the opponent of signing off to someone and helping out who has the property and can pay. It is not social policy, it is not the social case, unfortunately in Croatia we have too many who are unable to risk the life of them and their families returning that loan. And these are the topics, colleagues and colleagues we were supposed to discuss here today. And then probably the debate would be different. But I'm saying, two key things and two key paper we couldn't get on the board or here today, and that's how many Swiss banks in Croatia have bought and it's a basis for them to place credits in Swiss. And if that's what the CNB says, then those for what they bought have the right to account for that exchange rate difference. But if they weren't buying Swiss, they'd just take the Swiss for a plate, then it's just a loan. And then they have no reason to do this. But Mr. Minister, because this law deserves consensus, it's not at all controversial, but if we get these answers, and if we say what we're going to do with those who won't be able to repay credit in euros tomorrow. Because I repeat, all our members and our members and your sympathies and our sympathies are unfortunately the same boiler. And who's gonna be crazy about helping these people? No one. But let's not make a mistake, because I repeat unfortunately every minister of finance knows it well no matter what political options, there's how much he's paid a billion and based lawsuits for some things that have been signed or maybe haven't been assessed what's going to happen in the future. And maybe if we had so directed the debate that when we talk about these four, five things that this law makes, it probably wouldn't be a lot... It wouldn't be a lot of noise, because I think just one sentence, please, just this problem doesn't deserve it because when we talk about our citizens' problems, then I think there's just no time for politics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56042	Now we move on to replicas that are exactly 7. The first one will be brought out by Ivo Jell-O.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56043	Comrade Shuker, you are in your debate, and you have begun to argue that if I can call it that between the banks and this government you treat as a conflict between two goats on a hill that will make the citizens suffer. You're scaring the citizens and putting us in the same position as the malts are threatening the dangers of both us and the banks to the citizens, and it's really not right because if anyone stands up in this part of the citizens' interests, then it's this government with this law. So, it's not right to put us in the same level as the banks and to scare the citizens of both the banks and this government when it's true and visible, although it's hard for you to admit that this government and these laws are just trying to protect the citizens from the will of the banks as it has been so far. Why didn't your government do it until now, that's your problem. So you're saying we're the two goats on the cabin. You can think of us as goats and goats on a cabin or without a cabin but don't think they're sheep citizens so they don't see what this is all about and that this government is finally trying to protect them from the will of banks that your government didn't know or didn't want. Whatever.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56044	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56045	A colleague Jelusic should know that there are certain proverbs in this people and the proverbs usually suggest that someone does not make the same mistake twice because whoever makes the same mistake repeatedly repeats it then is expensive pay. So these two goats on the hill is a figurative expression, one proverb in Croatia we all know well how these goats ended up. That neither was it in my mind to say that neither was the government nor that the banks were goats and that is how it was best confirmed by Mr. Minister today in his opening statement this morning when he said he was meeting with the bankers last night that he was likely to reach an agreement to avoid lawsuits. So, it's only on the trail of that because if there is no agreement between the government and the bank unfortunately, the lawsuits will happen and eventually they will lose Croatian citizens and whoever is more or less guilty, the one who loses is the least important to him. So don't turn some figurative stuff on something because I don't think my debate went to what you were saying at all. But let man have a little more experience and knowledge, and never when we talk about these things, I will not deal with politics the way you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56046	The second line will be presented by counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56047	Here's a respected colleague of mine you said by speaking to Minister Linic that you were... And that, and understand him in many moves, were almost in the same positions only at different times and that you as a minister warned when these interest rates, citizens, that these interest rates were either too large or too low and too low, yes, I wrote down, I warned people when these interest rates were too low or too low. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's nothing to argue about, it's all right, don't defend yourself right now I didn't say, I don't blame you for what you said and what you did if that was the case. But there's a disadvantage in that when interest is made, when banks determine interest without parameters and everything we want now and... Then the government can't stand by it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As is now, Minister Linic is actively and therefore, propheticly behind it, doing something. So, you, it's true, no matter what you just said or what you're about to deny that you didn't say, but you acted like you were standing by. And the truth is, you even warned some employers here and there, so you warned the banks. But it's not my God raising interest, or bringing it down to some enormous level to attract citizens, it's some kind of elemental disaster, and then the government says tomorrow it's gonna be rain, bring umbrellas, it's gonna be over or something like that. So there's no place to warn, there's room for us to act. And for that I will not judge you about it now, I only now want this opportunity from you to give recognition to Mr Linic and this government that has come into play and supported her. That would be one size.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56048	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56049	Comrade Antičević, you unfortunately run away from the facts, and then in the end your debate turns out as it turns out. So when you were in power, then you talked about the market, about the games, etc. These interest rates are nothing more than the consequences of some kind of game competition. ... The second thing, if you already wanted to replicate, I see that you applied for a debate on this agenda point, then you could at least go online and see a little bit of budget to see when the franc class started to explode, then you'd see that it actually happened somewhere in 2010 and then all the problems came up. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] However, you should also see who was when you took a loan and you would see at which point, unfortunately, the minus came. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The other thing, no one expected that what would happen would happen. And about who did or who didn't, there's a lot of things to talk about, and 300 bills, a billion kunas in those accounts, and a lot of other things that weren't there today. Today, Minister Linic inherited one bill and everything is paid through it, and that's where it all starts. Therefore, be assured that if anyone in this country cares about order then that's what finance ministers care about because when there's no money at the end of the year, then their head hurts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56050	The Republic will now be presented by counterpart Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56051	Thank you, Vice President. Here may be the first time I've agreed almost entirely with what my colleague Shucker said, without a lot of politicizing. I had the impression that he really wanted this law to pass and I think he gave full support to this law, so I understood that. What I would have just pointed out here, which I very much liked was one confession. A confession that the former government could not have done some things because they were negotiations with the European Union and therefore it was lenient to the banks and therefore, that is why fellow Shucker made it clear that today the situation is slightly different because we in the European Union this government can make it much more elegant. I'll remind myself of some words from my colleague, Boric, who just said if it was an excuse or not, that's where I'll end up with the story. So that's the story, that's the context of time. And just one more thing, order, is the introduction of order is what my colleague Linic is doing right now, and I think we're getting along now finally and I'm glad that it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56052	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56053	The introduction of order began long ago, in phases and we can go back to some things, but definitely the strongest tool for introducing order is the OIB. The strongest tool and without that tool, Minister Linic today would be quite powerless to do some things. Another thing, counterpart Tomic, if there were no certain records at the finance ministry then neither could they publish a list of debtors or anything else, then it could not be made overnight. So, I know exactly. And the second thing, when you like to talk like this, and you can check it out, every year twice a year, at the 4th and 10th months, there was a list of all the debtors of 100 and more kunas, every citizen, every legal person got a notice that it was due and many were blocked on that basis, but I'm saying about that after that. But what I'm saying all the time, what I'm going to say again, what my colleague Dalic said this morning, is two key things. What about citizens who have lost their jobs, who have lost their wages, who cannot repay loans or those related to the euro or to the kunas and other things, we expect until the vote on this law to hear what kind of agreement has been reached with Croatian banks. It's the key to everything, and that's what the minister said here at the end of the day. So, if an agreement is reached with the banks on solving the Swiss problem, then one large questionnaire that hung over this law that eventually made us some reserves under this law, this questionnaire disappears, and we expect it to be said as well, and what about those citizens based on a social programme through a budget that has loans related to another currency, and I can't repay them. So we have to think about everyone. And don't, remember those credit cards on the poles, on the car, etc. And that's where the story started the battle against it. I'm just repeating one thing, sometimes only when I mentioned an institution but the left side of the assembly jumped into the air without saying what the media were doing. Some were gods, they could do whatever they wanted, it was blasphemous for a political official to mention it there by accident.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56054	The replica will now be presented by counterpart Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56055	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, in this replica, I would refer to that part of Mr. Shucker's debate when he spoke of minuses in current accounts and the difficult situation of our citizens and their departure to those minuses. So no one has objected to citizens in all the debates, not in written and oral discussions, why and how they enter these current accounts, nor has anyone objected to abolishing this product, that it is not a good product. Of course, it has made it possible for a certain commission of both citizens and better citizens, those with better incomes and those with worse incomes in some way in certain parts or months or years when they do not have actual incomes to therefore facilitate the flexibility of their finances. But what he objected and what this law prevents, is that against simple behavior and against rules to strengthen in this relationship to the weaker one overnight by phone or email, we cancel a certain minus, we hit a blockade on the account, etc., etc. So these are the dangers that existed and we have to be correct and say that not all the banks did it, but one significant part did, and we've stopped that by this law. So we didn't, we were against it. And therefore this law and regulations for a neat, quality relationship, stipulates that banks do not have a custom until now neither this more correct nor less correct that they are therefore obliged to inform 30 days about the suspension of the current account or the eventual reduction of it or the increase on the one hand, and, on the other hand, if the client does not agree to do so within a year, to grant him a consumer credit under the same conditions as the conditions for this minus. I think it's a big step forward. I'm saying, there's no liquid minus bauk as it was at the beginning of this, nor is it a bad product but the rules of the game must exist and the government must side with the weaker in this regard and make it as equal as possible, and that's in this case the citizen and his current minus.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56056	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56057	My colleague Rajedinović, what I said, I stand entirely by it. The citizens' minuses go because it's caused them misery, because it's forced them to need it. Because we can tell our citizens whatever we want. However, those who have the least are the most valuable and the strongest paid. When they get that little money starting with the pensioners and the next first they pay the directorship and everything else, then the rest they pull out and live on it. So that minus on the current they simply couldn't get the money to cover the basic needs of life. And will anything change to them if someone sends them a month before he informs them that he will charge them, and it will stretch them out, etc. And he's got nothing to pay for next month. He has to go down again next month. So, unfortunately, that's one minus he's lived with all his life. It would be more logical to think with the banks that a minus the current rate would be reduced there. So why don't you think about personal bankruptcy if we can't work it out differently. So let's see how other civilized countries have it. But the worst thing we do is you'll have a chance to say everything in your debate. So we simply forget that before the crisis we had as many as 170, 180,000 unemployed, and today it is unfortunately 340,000. And that 160,000 has created some kind of obligation, has obligations to its children, to its apartment, to itself. And it's just that if they're out of income those with that pension fee can't cover... And nobody blames anyone here, but let's talk real about the problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's not say it's as if someone from the hohstappleria is going to be in charge of the current account. That's just not true. What kind of idiot would go into charge of the current account and pay the interest rate of 15 to 16%? Well, no one's alive, but simply because they have to pay, they won't cut his power, they won't have his kid at school without a sandwich and a million other things. And those are the facts. And that's what's said that these are things that need to be thought about through social policy, not that something's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56058	Thank you very much. Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56059	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, you said in your debate that the citizens didn't go, and you said it a little bit in a minus on the current accounts from the hohstappleria. So there were no irresponsible people among these people and I agree with you on that. However, when you spoke about taking residential loans in Swiss, you still seemed to transfer most of the responsibility to the citizens. So, like them, they slowed down on loans in Swiss because they were at that point favourable. I must say, it's hard for me to believe that citizens would be responsible for taking short-term loans, not for taking long-term loans for 30 years, as is the case in Swiss. What I'm saying is, the citizens didn't slow down after the Swiss loans. Citizens were manipulated because bank officials were educated just to offer them loans in Swiss because banks slowed down to make easy money. And that's why the responsibility for this huge increase in credit wars has to be borne by banks. They must be co-responsible. Credits at a variable interest rate may be granted for car-type consumer goods, but loans under such unknown conditions cannot be granted for housing credits.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56060	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56061	My colleague Jelash, I have repeated several times that I would like to see the CNB report on how many banks have actually bought Swiss for the allocation of these loans that were tied to Swiss people, so I am automatically binding both the responsibility and the central bank and the business banks. But the logical thing is if someone is offering you some kind of credit, let's say I'm talking about two-and-a-half percent, and the second credit that's tied to the second currency is your interest rate is five-and-a-half percent. So when you look at the monthly annuity, when you see what the difference is, so when you take some risks, you think it's a big difference at the end when it's calculated. But that's why I'm saying, but someone said, and the current governor, and then Vujcic's deputy governor is the same thing, and we were together on one show, and that was the same question. It was thought somewhere in 2007 that he also warned that Swiss-related loans hide certain traps. Therefore, it's neither accusing nor attacking anyone. If there hadn't been an economic-financial crisis, the question would have been whether it would have happened together. And there's also a real question of why there's been such a sudden decline in the value of the Swiss franc. It is likely to be the answer for some 15 or 20 years that were real goals. But you finally know what? All these big accounts and all these big battles are ultimately paid by the citizens. Unfortunately, in this case, it's our citizens, and we're here to try to pass the law to make it easier for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56062	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56063	Thank you. Well, here's fellow Shuker, the fact is that here's Croatia is practically on the verge of six years of recession. It's a very, very long period, and that's actually this, of course, this period of five full years and at the beginning of the sixth year of recession, of course, that all of these negative effects that are present to them are now not, again I don't elaborate finally breaking down and at the possibility of paying off the loans that people have raised in the first row I'm talking about housing loans because they're long-term loans. I am almost surprised that we are practically only on the threshold of the sixth year of recession with any measure that citizens have against housing loans. If this recession continues for another year or two, I believe that we will mean the sixth, God forbid and the seventh year of recession I believe that we will have to continue to act with additional measures because for now we have a relatively small share of mortgages that have been realised in the first row because the collaterals have been extremely strong and because the courts, the bailiffs, the insurance instruments are so. However, they too will be exhausted. On the other hand, if I may point out the discussion of your club's representatives without the intention of entering your club at all, and most of your club members were somewhat unconsistent. I think we all felt it, maybe we all felt it wrong, but I think it made some impression that there was a little bit of a difference in positions, or maybe it was just her being shown, so there seems to be some difference in positions. And what you just said and a representative of your club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56064	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56065	Well, my colleague Djurovic, I'll try to look back on what you said. A colleague, Dalic, spoke on behalf of the club this morning, spoke a broader economic aspect of this together. So, speaking of which, if Croatia doesn't change economic policy, if we don't come to economic growth that Croatia will no longer be a problem just loans in Swiss but Croatia will be a problem no matter what currency it refers to. So I'll cut her 15-minute debate short. And I don't see what my debate about what my colleague Dalic was saying? And counterpart Dalic said today that we have a whole new law ahead of us on what the minister said about the deal with the business banks. If you think that at the time that the Croatian state can get a 3 and a half 4% loan, it will not lower interest rates in the Republic of Croatia and if new 60, 70,000 workers are hired to disappear, then I really don't understand how you think your club thinks it is going to solve this problem. So, without economic growth, without increasing the number of employees, all these problems will just arise. The problem of loans tied to the Swiss franc exploded at the time of the big devaluation. Not because of the interest rate. Whether the interest rate is 3% or 4% unfortunately Croatian citizens would not be so complaining about it. But when your principal grows 50 or 60% and all of these principals are basically over 600, 700 thousand kuna, then it's too much of a problem. Therefore, there is no difference in the discussion on behalf of the club and colleagues who later discussed it. Therefore, counterpart Dalic also said this morning what is clear with the agreement of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the bankers to see how the Swiss will be resolved. Finally, the same debate was also held on the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56066	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56067	Thank you very much. My colleague Shuker obviously understood what Mr. Marić said about banks making a lot more money on exchange rates, so 4.87 kunas in Swiss I speak than on interest. So, actually, colleague Rajedinović is somewhat right when he said we'd reach a consensus, right. Here we see the debate slowly coming to an end that's what's going on. But what I was about to say was that you were the one who appealed, as did your Prime Minister Sanader and Prime Minister Kosor, in connection with these interest rates and interest rates. So you said the citizens had trust in the banks, but actually that trust now turned out to be Red Hood's trust in the wolf. Because the Red Hood didn't know who the wolf was and that it was really a wolf so she trusted him. That's how the citizens had confidence in the banks when the wolves were told, is that now you're saying you weren't in a position to react in your time, the time of your ministry, and now the situation is different. You say the situation is different now. It was then the EU's entry. Does this mean that when you didn't react as Minister and your government that actually the citizens of the Republic of Croatia paid the wolf a good part of the money to join the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56068	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56069	My colleague Grubisic... I'm teaching you how to perform surgery. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] It's just that you wouldn't want to get involved in it. So the same thing when you talk about things then you can't skip the facts, you can't skip certain time periods in which something happened. But you and everyone else who talks like that don't God forbid it's 2009 or 2010. ... one large of four Croatian banks that accidentally failed. God forbid! Then perhaps today's story would be quite different. Because you look at a failed little bank, how much did DAB pay off? 500 million kuna. God forbid one of these four big banks went down would talk about billions. DAB probably wouldn't have enough money than this. So it's all about trust in banks. And why Croatian citizens and trust in banks? Well, because after three banking crises, Croatian citizens simply didn't trust the banks. Today one of the main potentials of Croatian banks is among other things saving Croatian citizens. And we can policyally talk one way or another about what someone did, so what you need to do when you have a historical time of low interest rates and you have a stable Swiss course. And when did the Swiss start blowing up? 2010. So, you were supposed to bring something? But it's best to say and stay alive and best to be in opposition and then they're guilty of both, depending on what side they belong to.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56070	Comrade Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56071	Thank you very much. Here, fellow Shuker said that citizens trusted our banks and that it would have been a disaster if any of the banks had gone bankrupt at a time when, at some point. Not only did the citizens trust the banks, so when you enter the bank, you also have awe. Namely, that flash and the luxuries flash you see there speaks best of all. When you take average salaries in the sectors of the Republic of Croatia, then you will see that banking is the highest wage. And that's what you can see by entering, and I was also in the European Parliament, I've been everywhere, but it's hard to see such a luxury anywhere but in banks, especially our banks. What else to say after all this and after these discussions except that this law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia would be even better if there was no amendment that was actually a tempered blade of this law and I'm afraid that as someone said here that after all this would follow the lawsuits either from the Franak Association or from the banks. Maybe the lawsuit was threatened by the banks before this amendment came. Today they're here when we're almost discussing it all day, we see some who are on the phone all the time, so I think reports from here are being sent about the direction of the debate and whether there's going to be a consensus or not, so they're being sent to those who are interested, and they could have come up and listened to this debate. But they're gone, they don't need their informants here. The CNB, which is the third ram from those two rams to the acreage of the commercial bank and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is therefore not mentioned. I don't know where she'd stop to come to the cabin, so she kept and kept the kuna course just from the euro. Well, speaking of which, there's been a shift and a crisis situation with those who've taken credit in Swiss. Why didn't there be a crisis situation with those who took loans in the euro? Why did they remain in the same credit annuity rate, and the Swiss did so? So precisely because the CNB keeps the relationship between the kuna and the euro and all the savings it leads and displays exclusively in euro, which is now about 200 billion kuna. Now we're wondering if someone here said that the capital came from the outside and that that's what they're creating and giving credit to. Then what is the cost of the 200 billion kuna savings in Croatian with a foreign sign and even names in Croatian banks? Which is what it saves when it's just as much as the exchange rate is tied to the euro, and the CNB was doing exactly that, and it wasn't doing anything about the Swiss franc or how someone said it was like Milka Chocolate, it came from Switzerland. Who'd go for it? It is clear that just as the colleague said just before that banks had slowed down to earn money on loans in Swiss francs because they knew the methodology, the system, they had developed a system to make easy profits after the loan was issued. Unfortunately, the citizens didn't know it, they weren't well informed, and they couldn't know it. He would even dare to say that in some sense it indicates even the rope between the Croatian National Bank and the commercial bank. You'd even dare say that here, and in terms of credit in Swiss francs, which was a small discount or a relief in raising rather than in euro. So people say, so of course someone's going to buy a carrot for 3 kuna, if there's 5 kuna in second place. Everyone will buy the one that's three kunas. But that was to say in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and now we have that problem. The banks really made more money on Swiss exchange rates than on interest rates. And not just who took those loans? the economy. Did the businessmen raise those loans? No, they didn't, very little, but the citizens were killed, the population was killed, they were raising housing loans in Swiss, they were killed. The net interest income of banks for 2012 was 10.5 billion kuna, net interest income was 10.5 billion kuna. Winning banks for 2012. 2 billion and 740 million kuna, 21 thousand employees in the banking sector divided by 21 thousand profits of 2 billion 740 that is how I already told my colleagues here over 130 thousand kunas get per employee. I wonder if there are any other branches in the Croatian economy or anything more profitable than the banking sector? Telecommunications, great and now we're clear, now we know everything, now we're clear. So given the many phone calls today, Mr. Schucker, you're going to make a lot of money to make more money today. Annual bonuses to managers of these 130 thousand kuna benefits per employee did not go to officials or cleaning women or others. They rewarded them with salaries in the banking sector that were much bigger than in any other sector except perhaps in telecommunications. So either way HDSSB is for this law but we are a little sad that the government has tabled an amendment to its own bill of law and that will be at the vote tomorrow. The HDSSB has also tabled an amendment that would otherwise schedule payments of interest and principally, therefore, that payment schedule. And we hope that you will give Mr. Minister the opportunity for people to decide how they will repay and repay their credit, especially those who still can and if the number of unemployed is 7 hundred more than the previous day. There, thank you very much. I expect replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56072	You'll only be replicated by your club. Igor Češek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56073	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, you are not, I support your debate, of course, but you have not noticed one very important thing, which is that with this bill of law, the government is fulfilling one of its pre-election promises, in fact not one of the pre-election promises, but we can freely say half of one election promise. And one election promise in Plan 21 was in plus three salaries, not minus to pay you. Therefore, in plus 3 salaries will not be any average Croatian citizen but this proposal is about the law on the elimination of minuses, i.e. paying back the minuses. But here they began to do something in part. What I would like to emphasise, the Croatian Post Bank, why it could not be an example of good practice banking in the Republic of Croatia. Why this Croatian postal bank must go for sale. It could serve Croatian citizens, it could be an example of good practice in terms of reducing interest rates. We know that interest rates are 11.98% today, we know that interest rates are 10.5%, we know that non-intentional loans are 9.20%, 9.5%. Why could the Croatian Post Bank not be able to lower interest, i.e. offer a package of services to its citizens in this way, attract more citizens to invest, i.e. become customers of the Post Office Bank and thus remain in the ownership of the state and encourage the development of the economy itself?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56074	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56075	I'm in one replica, I don't know who I've just mentioned the solutions we've offered. So, we're not without a solution and we know how to handle some things. So, and about, he also spoke about Croatia's postal bank, which is now on sale, so for the halls to say the English, it's IN in English to say whether, so I'm always surprised, that the Croatian postal bank is a state-owned bank. But I wonder which state institution is doing business, paying salaries and all other jobs, making payments through the Croatian Post Bank? A state bank. So my people, even how much is the share of these transactions, transactions, and banks of the state? And it could have been. That's what I was talking about before. And as for that promise of three salaries plus, or as I don't know, the red hat is obviously eaten and goes into personal bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56076	Drazen Djurovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56077	So you were saying, you were saying something about bank profits and how actually they didn't just have one of the biggest salaries, not only have high profitability and so on, it should only be considered that the net interest incomes in the 2012 report were I say 10 billion 570 million kuna. Yeah, that's why it's very good, and it would be good if we together had that CNB report on bank operations to be more detailed because it's very good and very nice to see how much space the banking industry actually has. And how much this banking industry in a very, very comfortable space operates and works. And this halabuca they've raised to these little measures that they won't mean anything to them, they haven't raised because they're afraid of these measures, just to prevent those measures that they should really do. These measures are aimed only at facilitating certain consumer categories. But there are additional measures that should actually be taken towards the banks and actually taken towards the banks, which they simply try to prevent. Both halabbuk and media grace and lobbying in political parties and other stakeholders. And that's why we're looking back at some exposure and we need to look back at them, but we also don't have to talk about this as a heroic act, because in the end and obviously in the final solution, this isn't going to be such a heroic act, it's going to be such a moderate move.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56078	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56079	Yes, yes, it was a colleague like the Croatian-Hungarian settlement, then a river cloth, whether a Rijeka cloth came in and Croatia was satisfied with the Rijeka Tavern. I'm not alluding to Mr. Linic's place of residence. But that's history, the river cloth is history so the minister won't be offended. Therefore, still in the Croatian people and Croatian citizens a certain substance and a certain reserve, starting with the guarantees, and we know that many of you are doing due to the transfer of debt to guarantees, and then from mortgages and I don't know what other reserves, reserves that I don't say which are removed from socks and certainly. So there's still no reaction we can see when someone's disintegrated from the house, apartment, etc. and we see it in Sibenik, here, there, a little bit on the Croatian so-called. You can see it on public television. But when that substance is spent too, when the guarantees can no longer pay back those debts, when the mortgages are not sold or they can't be charged or something with them, then something that I would call after the novel of that writer from the neighborhood or the neighborhood of Lazarevic will not be golded but rebuked by the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56080	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56081	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with your associates, colleagues and colleagues. In my opinion, the debate on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Credit Act is no longer about banks or HDZ, this is the story of us and of the citizens we have committed to do something that you, Mr. Minister, are doing. This certainly contributes to this bill in our overall strategy, your strategy above all to expose every hypocrisy. It is so necessary for Croatia in almost every form and every step. So whether there is room to spend time, power in banking fundamentalism, wonder and be appalled at their actions or at the actions of those who had no solutions because there was no problem for them either. And indeed, through several very important proposals, no matter how much... you can't give criticism, then you diminish the importance that it doesn't matter anyway, so you say this isn't one heroic act. No, no law of yours is a heroic act, but every rate is in its entirety exactly that and every heroic act of an individual is not... he was great in that right action in the right place. This is something and this law that introduces, very systemically it is significant, it is important for the wider message it carries than the area it covers, which is that it introduces a new security system. Can't man, only beasts live insecure, that's why they attack, that's why they're aggressive. A man must be given a minimum of security, and not only do we understand more security than any outside enemy, but also from poverty, from safety, from job, that's all we have yet to fight because man has lived insecurely for a long time. Over 20 years in Croatia are living insecurely. In fact, he never fulfilled his desire for the one security that our man seeks, which every man is looking for, and so is the Croatian family. Why are banks like temples and many of them from far away when they are attacked and from this home, and there they come with humility. Yeah, it's really temples or temples without a soul, but now the story tells about them. Large speculators and corporate managers profit from risky decisions, and they are protected from failure either by recovery or by a gold parachute. Even the ideologist of contemporary capitalism, which you economists will know much better about, the famous sentence of Sormon, says there is no economic criterion to distinguish virtually from real capitalism. There's this big, big trap, and that's why I'm telling us it's our job to limit ourselves and focus on the ones that make the state exist, which are citizens first of all. Therefore, if we had an orderly system as we were then certainly not many of the things that are now wanted to be resolved by this law would have been remedied and processed and under the law of mandatory relations. Any contract that concerns a purchase as well as a loan where a type of money is rented, and has its own interest price, must be determined or the law says specific. It was not according to the bond law, the mandatory relationship agreements were void, and that's why banks now say or someone who complains that they would lose so much and so much of their profits, it never belonged to them. It never belonged to them, not to say through different fees, warnings, and what they imagined for themselves. But listen, they could have acted irresponsiblely because none of them asked for responsibility except for some calls to humanity and so on, but they would have responded to humanitarian occasions, events and played benefactors at the expense of whom, citizens. So we had a mechanism then, but apparently he was weak, weak, never responsible for illegal charges, and that was through the collection of different services that must not be subject to charges and that are not charged anywhere in the world. So what we had in here wasn't anywhere, although such a single danger was common, and it overcame the entire financial situation, I would say to the government or force. Because it's for us to do? You, Mr. Minister, are often attacked. Well, you see, yesterday we had topics that caused a lot of turmoil, even someone called them world-famous. They weren't worldly, respecting a man is everyone's, I mean the attitude of each and every one of us. Well, it's been 46 years since Pope Paul VI's encycle was released. The population progressed, the progress of the people and no one here has ever thought of it, it's often about family, man and woman, but how this people live, how families live. It did not turn to one encyclical, and it speaks of exactly how the economy and procedures and processes in it must serve mankind, not just to some. Even a special section has already gone far in '67. It also deals with the terror of imperialism of money. So what you're getting yourself into is a very brave act and that's why when they attack you, so that they don't attack you, you'd have to imagine if I was doing anything useful at all. So when they attack you, when I click thunderously against you, you click for joy because you're doing the right thing. For those who don't have very strong voices, but they're most of them. But this is also one day when Croatia comes out of silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56082	There's no replica. The final word of Minister of Finance, colleagues of Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56083	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I thank you for your participation in the debate and the overall impression of the debate, because it is evident that we have common views, thinking about how to sort of improve the situation of citizens in relation to financial institutions. And I really believe that in this law as a government we have achieved with our proposals a greater protection of citizens compared to financial institutions and that this is exactly our job and yours. What we estimate is that the proposals of the law on limiting maximum interest and on housing loans and on consumer loans and the total cost of credit are something that we think we will stop unquestionably rapid growth, the debt of citizens, and that there will be far more caution in the banking system in lending citizens because there is no room for banking risks of default in plasmas because they are simply maximum interest so low that they simply don't have room for risks. We therefore expect that such proposals could stop the growth of indifference in the area of citizens. This proposal cannot find a solution to reduce liquidity since the liquidity reduction can primarily be achieved by faster repayments and regular repayments. So that's what the government tried to solve in the very incentives towards citizens who are in debt to the state and what we're going to solve by the Law on Profit Tax, which is that the banking system of the National Bank, which is determined by the National Bank, is that we can be refuting items if they are used to write them off to citizens, which means that we will in part give up our revenue in the budget, and all in our capacity to stimulate the banking system to a reasonable and healthy assessment of who it is that can complete and pay off our obligations, and who deserves to be reduced. And what I need to say is I'm glad that, apart from the HDZ club, no one mentioned there really is no risk that the banking system will stop financing citizens, that it will have no interest in financing citizens. Therefore, any citizen who can guarantee his income and his assets new credit obligations that he will be a member of the Croatian banks and that in that part we will not have an end to funding especially in the part that we are always interested in and that is the issue of financing, solving housing problems. I see, therefore, that we share mostly the same thought that new legal solutions in the relations between citizens and financial institutions will not cause additional risks. There is still some responsibility here I would like to say a few amendments, so I suggest we leave you the answers specifically related to the way credit is paid where we simply slowly return in forgotten ways of payment which we have been more honest with in favour of citizens and less banking systems, and until the law is passed, we will give our opinion on whether it is possible and how to install these upcoming changes. I see that the bill itself has been very much under discussion that the government is responsible for the reasons that citizens do not have job security and because pensions do not grow as much as they need to have the possibility for pensioners to also use loans to expand and their assets or for some short-term consumption needs. I see that there has been a lot of withdrawal and debate over the fact that this is a problem that needs to be resolved by pay, a job, and that responsibility lies with the government, the coalition government which is currently acting responsible. It's already what I personally think we're slowly trying to politically and in this law go back to who's guilty of what. I can't but don't say very clear figures at the end of 2011. 305,000 unemployed, a million and 240 thousand pensioners. These were the results of a four-year crisis. A deficit that we haven't identified but was determined by EUROSTAT according to European statistics 26 billion kuna. The largest deficit in the Republic of Croatia since its existence. Yeah, it was a government handover. After two years, what do we have? Yeah, it's growing. Right now, 344 and some unemployed. Yes, yes, and the government contributed to that increase because it finished the shipbuilding work that the former government did not want. It all increased the number of unemployed. It's been restructured and the railroad and we've also increased the number of unemployed, closed down some firms, sent some into bankruptcy. Yes, yes, and in health care it was all something that meant the number of unemployed. Yes, yes, and the opening of the bankruptcy to the company that we fed the state money. Let's just remember, I'm happy to remember this example because I still remember myself as the 2003 culprit. Dalmatino, it went bankrupt. A billion kuna per alcohol not paid. Yeah, it was a way of doing business. Don't solve the problems, don't solve the liquidity, don't solve the insolvency and leave all the problems to this government. Yes, yes, 6 billion or 5.5 billion health dues, and it's all the new coalition government. All this was to be settled before we took power. We want to talk about collective agreements and messages so you don't break it overnight? Collective contracts, who signed them? This government? No, this government is checking them out, conducting negotiations, reducing rights, all of which we're trying to do in a democratically legal way. Yeah, yeah procedure. Last year, for only a collective contract of public service workers, it took the government to discuss the reduction for the first time. So I ask everyone and what is our responsibility and who is responsible? We seriously want to talk about the 200 billion total debt we're going to have in a few months. 200 billion created in the last 23 years. Seriously, that problem never came up. So what difference does it make, we get in charge, we push new duties without realizing that it's 60% of the GDP, that that's the limit we set for our constitutional provisions. No, I'm hearing stories about the Post Office today because that's the answer. It's not a solution. The post office bank needs extra money, Post office bank 4.5% of the market, Post office bank has a good deal for citizens, it's business-oriented, all the sociales go through it. So someone has to take care of her. And do we have money in the recapitalisation budget to strengthen that bank? Well, we don't. You know, for this government, the effort is enormous when it has to set aside 5 billion for HBOR because in that bank, the government shows politics, we have no right to the commercial bank. The commercial bank is on the market and there's nothing the government can do about it. Yes, by 5 billion kuna, 500 million sorry I used the wrong number myself, 500 million a year from the HBOR budget. Last year, 10 billion plasma, over 56% in investments. Direct decisions, independents, somewhere in common with the banks with the National Bank model, we were trying to solve indifference. Yes, there's a bank in office of government policy, economic development policy, financial consolidation. There's nothing to look for at the commercial bank. We need security, the future of that bank, some new owner needs to talk about it. But, as we know, we don't need to privatize anything, we don't need to do anything. We're against raising taxes, but we're not up for privatisation. So how will the debts come back? How? With a new assignment? Yeah, that's what we're different about. This government is very clear about its proposals and is trying to find solutions in a very, very difficult crisis. The question remains why there is no economic growth because the main problem is economic growth. It's not pleasant for two years we have a less salary per year, we cut the wages. Someone says we should've done more. We cut our wages. Inflation was 4% in 2012 and we have 300 million nominally less paid gross wages. This year there will be 600 million less paid salaries. Realistically, what's the matter, I apologize nominally, and what's only real? Reduced material expenditure, reduced subsidies. Yes, it's the politics of this government. But we also reduced our incomes. I see that we are dealing with two index points, smaller contributions to health care, but this is a huge incentive because we have reduced the labour price to make the Croatian economy more competitive, so that it can turn to Europe's markets. We also gave up our profit tax. If it comes true and if it reinvests. Especially in manufacturing activities, a billion and a half less, but it doesn't matter. And we can't recognize that as an incentive in the economy, a private economy. 500 million reduced parafiscal burdens, three reprogrammes close to 4 billion we tried to solve the dubios of the unpaid economy according to the budget, 4 billion. ...we didn't throw them into bankruptcy, we didn't throw them away, no, we took their problems seriously, we even gave them permission not to pay interest if they paid off at once. And it was a reprogramme that we had a serious discussion here. The model of pre-banking deals is a very difficult model, a new model but used in America, used in France, set in Slovenia but not changed, the battle to simply resolve liquidity before we open bankruptcy, if there is an agreement, if there is the will of the debtor and his creditors. Yeah, you know, it's not easy on that model to hire again the entire administration that we keep saying we should cut it, without compensation. No kuna is paid to the holdings of 5,000 items over 5 grand, 47 billion kuna reported in that settlement, and now you have to separate who's serious, who's insecure, who's cheating, who doesn't cheat, who has a future, who doesn't have a future, and all that in 120 days, prepare it for the courts that have to make a decision. Yeah, really, this government doesn't do anything, nothing, nothing does anything, no incentives gives to the private sector, nothing. And as far as we've written off, anything with the goal of keeping the job. And then what do we conclude? Imagine in the budget who we need money, you know, every government is fighting as small a deficit as possible, and we estimate that we lose only to these incentives annually over 4 billion kunas of lost money given to the economy. And did they bring it back? No, they're not. And then you come slowly that there is a severe dubiosis and a severe crisis in the private economy in private. And then we wonder why such a severe crisis is? The answer is very simple, we run away from it as the citizens went into consumption for their properties. What were the businessmen doing? They weren't into production, they weren't thinking about us being in Europe in 2013, they weren't worried about governments being very clear about all the parliamentary parties saying we were going to Europe, they weren't. No, there's those scientists, growing up, creating economic growth. The government says by exporting to the EU, exporting to the world and investing. And how was philosophy until yesterday? Expensive. And the private sector spent money and money, its entire accumulation, the money of the banking system investing in real estate, investing money in what is said to be a real estate business, not in the production of land purchases for land re-use in the construction of apartments, in the construction of business squares. Yeah, there's your money, there's your investments gone, there's just all frozen up there all of a sudden. Can such an economy be restored overnight? Is it possible to come back again to produce this economy in some way and turn it around to export? Yes, this is what the government's programme is about exactly encouraging the competitiveness of the economy to allow the private sector to overcome its crisis and to restore the economic sector's capital values of its capital and to turn to increasing production. And the first marks are visible. Unfortunately, it's this very clear message that you can fight, encourage, deny, but for the next 2, 3 years, it's hard to get back with economic work. It's a dubious crisis. It's not a crisis because of the problem in Europe, it's not a five-year crisis in Croatia, it's a crisis of wrong investments, irrational layovers, and at a time when the real business in America fell in 2007, and in 2007, we started to do that, in 2008, 2009 it was already visible with these problems in Europe and then we exploded in that. And now, as Government, we're dealing with it, but we're not doing anything. Yeah, those are the nicest messages, only the most beautiful ones are the general evaluations. Therefore, every reform, every restructuring of a public company, I will not talk about public enterprises. The number of workers too large, very difficult to maintain production, no investments completely and the public state sector has left investments, and we need both energy and rail in alternative energy sources in tourism. Yeah, all of the state's hotel companies are all in dubiosis, all in pre-debt settlements are all with debt higher than the value of capital, and otherwise their value is two stars, one of them may be three. Yeah, it's state-owned companies, that's how we found them, that's how we try to solve them, every day, every company, every possible new job. So I would say that in these two years this government has run a lot of things, it has turned. But we can't tell anyone that they're going to get a job so fast. No one. It's a job we're trying to do. A job that's at risk with 200 billion kunas in debt, at risk. Because that 200 billion kuna is wrong for us to have high interest and for all the savings we have in the state budget to eat new expenditures for interest. Because you know nine billion shipbuildings, the former government neither wanted to sell, ran two years of competition, nor did the costs she paid under the guarantees she paid, included a deficit. That's what Eurostat did now, but we took them into public debt. As a government, the new coalition has put it into public debt. And so our debt just grows. Now imagine why interest is growing, why ratings are dropping, what we've been asleep on shipbuilding for eight years. Or we want to talk about the railroad about what the former government boasted about. Well, we were giving for the railroad an enormous boost. Yeah, the budget was just an incentive, which is why we came up with deficits like this. But where did the money go in the railroad? With pay. Pay. No one built anything, no one created anything. Yeah, it just went to pay. I'm sorry, since when are the railroads on the government budget payroll in the world? Never. Never. That's why there's no railroad, that's why it's 40 miles, that's why our ports aren't even competitive, and now they're fighting for that competitiveness. Is that what we're gonna talk about? Or we'll talk about one-off subsidies to agriculture with which the former government was thrilled. Yes, the deficit is in the budget, the public debt has grown. So what did we do, import food, import food? You know, I still remember in HABOR every day we write off the debts of peasants who don't pay for tractors or the combined or all the incentives we've given. Nothing, failed economies, nothing, nothing. Yeah, we're just recording new debts, new write-offs. New notes. We also want to talk about a development fund closed by the former government's decision, debts left behind. We're talking about some kind of facility being built, no one paying back their debts, no one knowing why he'd pay back his debts. And then we'll talk about getting into public debt. It's all the money spent in the budgets. Yeah, and because when someone's talking about this government being incompetent, that this government is guilty of no jobs. And then I ask who's to blame for burning 200 billion. And with 200 billion, we don't have a railroad, we don't have ports, we don't have shipyards, we don't have a farm and 200 billion is burned. The effect of all of them zero. Eight years of former government, and that's what we're trying to change. We're trying to change. Therefore, welcome to every debate about such a law because it was not to be discussed today. But someone will say it's not a solution to these laws, but we need to hire people and give money, and we should have done it in six months of our term. And then it has to be said that in eight years it's managed to burn 200 billion. And that's a big problem, then, how to provide the citizens with both pensions and wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56084	Thank you. Now we'll move on the replicas. Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56085	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I would like to apologize to you on behalf of myself and all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for being a minister in a country where there are many problems. Because you're probably supposed to be the minister in a country where everything is great because you definitely deserve it. All of this is simply below your level. Well, just now in the last half hour, you've been listening to this sad story where everyone's guilty. It's HDZ, it's the former governments, it's the entrepreneurs, it's the privates, it's everyone's fault, and it's so hard for you. I'm sorry, but that's the life. And in particular, you're having a particularly difficult time with shipbuilding. So, you say the shipyard wasn't going to sell, but the long ones were running the competitions, so it was absolutely not going to be done. And then I ask you if that was the case with the former government who didn't want to sell shipyards and why you were waiting for the last day of the sale of Brodosplit was put together and signed for a few days, not Brodosplit, I'm sorry, 3. May a few days before you join the European Union, a few days before the last deadline when you are so fast. However, it should also be said that when spoken, for example. about the privatisation of the shipyard then many here can remember what some SDP officials have been doing around Split and the shipyard in Split... And scaring the workers then what's gonna happen when those privatisations are made. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the contract was made and he welcomed you on the table when you came to power, so you just formally spent it. Also done for other shipyards [[Thank you very much.]] And for all that [[/Intruder: Replication response. Thank you.]] You entered the shipbuilding guarantees in the debt of 2011. [[Intruder: Collars timed out.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56086	Minister Slavko Linic, reply to replica Indica Dalic: You want to book your results and the costs are like.../The speech room has been disabled./... [[And now you're saying it's some kind of maximum deficit. My colleague, my colleague Dalic. .../]] Comrade Dalić, colleague Dalic, colleague Dalic, please have the same rights and obligations as any representative and when I ask you to finish I will ask you to listen to them. The reply to the replica Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56087	Speaking of shipyards, the former coalition government in its term of office in 2000/2003. A total of 8 billion kuna spent taxpayers' money and shut down shipbuilding. In 2003, they were rehabilitated shipyards. In eight years, you've created a new nine billion dubiouss, nine billion. You haven't made any decisions about shipyards in eight years. All shipyards mean both in Split and Rijeka and in Pula and in Kraljec we resolved in 2012 and in early 2013. As far as I know, it's 15 months unlike 8 years. All right, you measure the efficiency of this government, and I'm just telling the facts. We didn't register anything in 2011. The guarantees were registered in 2012, the EUROSTAT methods are something I wouldn't talk about. Therefore, the profit of 26 billion deficits is not the accounting of the Ministry of Finance, this is the EUROSTAT method that was estimated to have such expenditures, such risks, and we did not register them. The question is, for example, 3 billion and 300 kuna this year that we gave to pay for the health care that year. We're showing in deficits this year. As well as EUROSTAT..., will it be 2011, 2012, I don't know. About our methods, we now decided to pay those debts, and we didn't pay them because we had a lot of money, we paid them because they had to pay the economy bills that waited 800 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56088	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56089	Thank you very much. To be honest, Minister, I don't understand what this was about at the end but the same discussion about the deficit was in 2003 when you convinced one thing to finally show another. And as far as Dalmatia's wine is concerned, I'm really surprised to hear you say that. Well, at least you know why you didn't send him into bankruptcy in 2003 when he had $350 million in debt. We want to tell these colleagues and colleagues what they should've left to someone to buy for 1000 kuna that overpriced building on the marine good. Is that supposed to be left to someone? And who wrote that, the State's Attorney's Office. At the time when the State's Attorney's office wrote it down, and you know very well about the problem, and I'm surprised you brought it up. Comrade Linic, I am not going to quote your debates about HZ for each budget. The diametric opposite of what you're saying right now, the diametric opposite. But I don't see any reason for this kind of discussion. In 2013, you will call for HDZ problems, ok, which is the problem with the deficit in 2014. But let's understand, as we argued in 2003, what is it that anyone left to whom so today so that there are no problems solved. Another thing about health care, so you have a clean start that you've paid a few million. That's not even close to what you said, but look at you health care for the first six months of this year made a new loss of billions and 100 million kuna, but that's not a problem for you or the Ministry of Finance. So let's talk about problems the way they are. And for what it's worth, we want to call ourselves the Development Fund, which was until 2003. You say there's some kind of drive, so one day-to-morrow wants to talk about your pre-profit deals in exactly the same way when you pull things out of the context of time and space. So where does that lead? And you, after this debate, see, we can, however, talk about every point, so why didn't you talk about those billions and a half that remained loans from HZ in 2003, a billion and a half loans for reconstruction and development where for the restoration of war-torn areas... exchanges beyond all laws and regulations, but that doesn't lead to a colleague Linic anywhere. He's not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56090	Thank you. Replication response, Minister A fellow Shuker. [[Intruder Shucker: And why the bile about something that is crystal clear.]] Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56091	Yeah, I mentioned Dalmatia wine because I think it's my fault I didn't open up the bankruptcy in 2003. Yes, but you eight years behind that, although it was the fault of the coalition government, it's obvious and don't speak, no real estate is questionable, since the first day Dalmatia's wine has been working on the maritime good and it's clean. It's as clean as the bankruptcy of Lenca, the maritime good. So well you have your own opinion, I'm telling you mine because I was in the then government and I know that no property that was on the maritime good was owned by Dalmatia wine. All he had to do was deal with them, but I'm saying she didn't deal with the former government or you. Now we've solved it, it was simply a new number of unemployed. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56092	Comrade Shucker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56093	I see Mr. Shuker and I will never understand each other. Therefore, once again you can repeat a thousand times, in 2004, you abolished a law that was meant to finance the modernisation and restructuring of the Croatian Railways. You've abolished that law and you've stopped dealing with the railroad, except you've been shooting money at railways' salaries. That's what I'm saying publicly, and that's what I'm going to prove to you as many times as you want. ... Great. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And you prove whatever you want. The restructuring of the Railways, which started in 2003, is hereby terminated. It's stopping. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So we're different in something, someone makes decisions, someone doesn't make decisions, but you're the ones who keep trying to say tonight that the government is a coalition that deals with these problems responsible that people have less wages and less pensions and less jobs, and I don't. Eight years of damage remedied is the fault of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56094	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56095	Thank you. It is impossible to look at this half-hour debate that was very broad economical in two minutes, so I will just briefly look back at something that I would like to remind the minister once again since the topic has now gone beyond the scope of this point, and this is a pre-fashion deal for the Lipik health-recreation centre. The total debt of the company is 460 million kuna, of which the state is the largest believer with some 370, 380 million kuna. There is a letter of intent from a London investor that has not been backed by a bank guarantee that it will capitalise with 32m euros. So there's a certain potential investor. However, due to the lack of a bank guarantee, the pre-demand settlement plan was not accepted, or the country’s largest believer did not accept it and now the bankruptcy follows. In this bankruptcy there is no charge for anyone practically because real estate is negligible, workers have not been paid for months, and the agony of the company lasts for over 10 years. In such a situation, the only appeal is, in fact, to reconsider this case since there is some potential investor that simply gives an opportunity and sees that this potential investor would actually go in and out because at this point in time with entry or bankruptcy it is definitely a waste and in that bankruptcy absolutely no one can benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56096	The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56097	I apologize to Mr. Representative for not answering that question after the debate, I let him out of my sight. There is no investor for the Ministry of Finance. Why? Not because his guarantee was problematic, but for the simple reason that Lipik was headed by AUDI, led by the Ministry of Tourism and the Government of the Republic of Croatia chose the investor concerned and concluded that Lipik was selling him. Following the government's decision, a potential investor did not appear or join the contract negotiations. Therefore, this is now the consequence that when we talk about the pre-profit for us people who have submitted to the competition, the tender, the final decisions made by the Government or the negotiations have not been joined. So much for that investor and that's why he wasn't interested in... to try to find a way to capitalize the company, how to strengthen, trigger production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Without that partner, we couldn't leave. In agreements with the county and the rest of us are constantly trying to find a reason why economic solidarity funds don't go inside, because that's their purpose. As a result, the money from the budget is invested in such funds and is trying to help in some way to recover and train the company. Therefore, we believe that we may succeed in bankruptcy because unfortunately we do not have a partner. That partner showed all his insecureness.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56098	And Josip Boric, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56099	Thank you very much. Well, I don't know why we end up like this either, but I guess we're in some kind of a state of apocalypse or that's what it looks like to me. But it's always someone else's fault and I can't understand that this government is already half a term of two years that no minister can meet with his responsibility, and the prime minister can say and himself said at the beginning of the year this is our government, all the successes and failures are ours. And now we're looking for someone on the other side. That's eight years of HDZ power. So that people even replaced that successful power in 2003 doesn't go to my head at all. What's wrong with them? What happened to them in that moment? And they were so successful and everything was great, it was great. Public debt is 9 billion again HDZ, shipbuilding. What about 31 billion others? Where is it? I've recently been talking here all up to count. How much was public debt in '95, 2000, 2003, 2004, 2011 etc. A year of SDP authorities 14 billion public debt more on average. 17 years of HDZ government 7 and a half billion more public debt. They're facts, they show numbers. So where are these 31 billion of these 40 that grew into two years of ministers? That's the question. So does this government have any responsibility at all, so let it rule without responsibility and let it be someone else's fault? That's the easiest, that's great. Then what are we going to choose from the government? What do we have elections for anyway? Well, then let the government be another 10 years and then somebody's guilty of '92 again. A year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56100	Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56101	My dear gentlemen, I will always be the one under your nose to do this because I'm usually the person who doesn't complain. I work every day and solve the problems you've left, solve the problems, and it's not simple you know. We have a pre-war deal because you haven't dealt with the economy and the crisis in the economy in eight years. No company is able to invest because they are in dubiosis. Yeah, and we're dealing with those problems. But those stories of yours that need to be solved in six months that's your irresponsibleness and that's why I'm arguing. I'm complaining about work, no. I'm happy to have a job. In fact, it was my destiny to always prove myself in crisis. I've never had a chance to prove myself successful in my work life. No, and as vice president, he was dealing with the problems you left behind in 2000. You know, from a negative trend, we've come to a positive trend. Public firms have invested, wait four years we'll have our results. But that nervousness of yours where you're trying to tell why there are no more jobs, why there are no higher salaries, I'm trying to explain to the citizens where the problems are, and these are the problems we're dealing with. And that's what you need to know. I'm going to put you under the nose to read the IMF and others' reports where they still admit that this is the only government that deals with reforms, that this is the reason for the growth of debt that is suddenly growing dizzyly and that also in these reforms they have successes, that this is what the World Bank confirms. But obviously you like to make noises and that's why I'll always talk to you not to justify myself. I'm to justify what I found. No, I knew what was waiting for me, I knew it very well. I'm prepared for my job and I know what to do. And that's why you have the largest number of laws we've changed just to fix what you left behind, not to... But you won't be setting us up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56102	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later, later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56103	Now, in line with the points of the agenda of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, we will move on to the vote. Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 450. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am voting the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 112 votes, we have accepted the government's proposal to discuss and decide on its amendment. I ask the proposing representative to explain the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. ... Yes, yes, thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Amendment No. First Honored Deputy Minister. Retracted?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56104	Okay. it is an amendment to the article Yeah. [[Three. That's withdrawn?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56105	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56106	No, no, he's retired, so there's a new... He's been withdrawn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56107	Retracted. Amendment No. 2nd to Article 4th Honored Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the amendment article 4 is changed and it says, "I don't know if I should read it." ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56109	I'd like to help you. If you're going this way, then you're turning the law upside down. Given that the government has withdrawn the first amendment and has submitted the second amendment instead, so I suggest that for the consistency of the law and everything to discuss first this amendment that the government sent yesterday. Because then it's only this Amendment 2 and 3 that makes sense. Just because we don't work out of this Assembly circus.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56110	Thank you very much for the suggestion. Can we accept the suggestion? We can. Therefore, we can amend the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Article 3 of the Honored Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56111	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56112	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56113	So Article 3, paragraph 5, amended Article 11, is amended and reads, and now I don't know if it's necessary to read the entire amendment or just explain it?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56114	Explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56115	Just to explain, meaning regarding the agreement with the Croatian National Bank and the Croatian Bank Association, this is an amendment where a compromise solution would be found for existing housing loans in Swiss francs where discussions on the formula in which the interest rate for existing interest rates would actually be calculated, so it is agreed to use the average weighted interest rate established by the Croatian National Bank for the period 2000-2013 means a period of 13 years for those interest rates to be applied, meaning there is an average weighted interest rate. And to add a discount of 30% to that average weighted interest rate, it is a discount interest of 3.23% means official data of the Croatian National Bank are important. And it is important to say that such an amount of interest would be worth as long as the exceptional circumstances of the appreciation rate are more than 20% when these conditions are no longer, these values, meaning interest rates will no longer be valid and this is also clarified and completed in this amendment. It is also important to say that the costs of the contract are not to be charged to credit users in accordance with this paragraph.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56116	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 1. amended by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Yes, a respected representative, Martina Dalic, first appeared on behalf of the club. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56117	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Although at this time and this moment we are discussing the amendment to Article 3 I would like to say in the introduction that all the amendments that the Government has made to us and which we will discuss individually refer to both the essence and the scale of this law. We mean now more than six months after the public debate on this law started, we are today discussing the measure of the law through the government's amendments. Two readings, five months between the two readings, were not enough for the government to formulate in an appropriate and adequate way what the law meant. And this is the 11th issue of appreciation and the following articles relating to maximum allowed interest rates but on that later. As regards the article, now amended Article 11.a. He also shows and I have to go back to our initial debate on behalf of the club. Why, if it was possible to determine the solution all sides agree on, what made it so long ago? Why did it take so long to include the Croatian National Bank in solving this problem? Since it appears that just the inclusion of the Croatian National Bank has in some way made it possible to formulate this now, the solutions that Mr. Deputy Minister claims all parties involved agree on. As we understand the proposal for this amendment, we understand that its consequences will be to reduce interest rates for debtors who have loans in Swiss francs. We welcome it undisputedly. However, I would like to reiterate what the HDZ Club pointed out in the debate on the text of the law. The adoption of these provisions is justified by the social threat of Croatian citizens. I therefore remind the promoter again and ask him how and in a similar way will help socially endangered citizens with loans indexed to the euro and to the kuna. We had a chance to see yesterday during the cabinet session that the issue was being asked by members of the ruling coalition. Therefore, the answer to the question of how and how the position of debtors with loans in euro and kunas will be improved, and which are also socially at risk, we still haven't received. Therefore, the HDZ Club will remain restrained against this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56118	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic on behalf of his HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56119	Mr. President, representatives of the government, MPs and MPs. Relatively short. From the beginning through this law and in this law, we have actually supported everything that is good for Croatian citizens and everything that really increases the position as consumers of consumer credits, regardless of what credits they were. The fact is that under pressure and under justifiable pressure and demand from people who, due to the appraisal of the Swiss franc, have been brought into a very unfavourable position, the government has taken certain measures to facilitate the situation for these debtors and to reduce the amount of war they pay for housing loans. I'm not sure there may have been room for Swiss francs to do the same for other types of loans that citizens are paying because that appreciation of the Swiss franc hit many other types of loans in which citizens are in charge, especially when it comes to car loans. I mean, that's the way it is. That's one thing. I am also the course of events and these negotiations that have been led in some way as the Croatian Parliament are bringing us into that position that the Croatian citizens are assessing, it is a rating of 2 because it turns out that all will agree and then it comes to the Croatian Parliament that no longer represents the will of Croatian citizens, but represents one electoral body that will now only need an amenation of what the Croatian National Bank, Croatian business banks operating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia have negotiated and what journalists report to the Croatian public. So also in this case we have actually been this way of communicating about this problem in fact devoting the position of the Croatian Parliament and, therefore, in the Croatian public since yesterday and the day before yesterday, since so-called. The agreement is more or less said because the agreement has been reached and now there is only a item on the agenda that should now be formally passed through the Croatian Parliament. I think that both this message and this way and how this problem is being solved which many Croatian citizens are directly interested in is actually just additionally doing ourselves harm. So if you want the Government of the Republic of Croatia to do harm to that parliamentary majority who holds it here in power. Also what counterpart Dalic said, it is a fact that it was not really about those loans that are in kunas and the euro currency clause. The third thing, Minister Linic, was the last time he was here and when it came to this item of the agenda, said that he would tell us how much the average weighted interest rates for loans in kunas and loans with the currency clause in euro, since that amendment of the Governments actually changed the calculation methodology because no more, therefore according to these last amendments, will not be the reference value and the maximum amount of interest be related to that average interest rate that the CNB brings in its report, which we could read in the 2012 CNB report, but will be related to the average weighted interest rates specifically for loans in francs, especially kunas and especially loans related to the euro currency clause. It would therefore be okay, then, if the Deputy Minister actually said what the average weighted interest rates are and whether they are equal to those interest rates that the CNB made in its 2012 report. Minister Linic said the last time he was here that when it comes to voting, he would say what the average weighted interest rates are, since none of us know or know it in public. We only found out about the Swiss francs, so the Swiss franc loans. And why does it matter? It is important because the maximum interest rate, if we vote this law, the maximum allowed interest rate on housing loans will be one-third higher than that weighted CNB interest rate for certain credit products. Therefore, it would be good to know what we're voting for. And if these interest rates are lower, for example for kuna loans or euro-related loans, that means that we are actually voting for our citizens to have less interest in both kuna loans and loans related to the currency clause for the euro. Therefore, I think that the overall problem has not been well communicated, and in particular that as in other things, but here Croatian citizens are really interested and it is our obligation to make life easier for Croatian citizens at this time of recession, so that it is good that we have communicated this problem together in a different way and what is happening about the amendments to the Consumer Credit Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56120	Thank you, too. It is up to the honourable representative Damir Cain on behalf of the club of independents, the list of independents.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56121	Mr. President, Deputy Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. So this is the so-called. The Swiss law. This law or as the deputy minister called it a compromise I claim is the great success of the Croatian government or current ministers. It doesn't matter now. It's not a complete success, but I'll say it's a compromise, but still the interest 3.23% is success. I agree that it would have been far better if the interest had still gone down not to 3%, as the finance minister says, at 2.7 or not. Bravo, Agent Lucin! Or that it's gone, that the bank pays you, but it's even better than it was. And if we're honest, I guess we don't know the government, the ministry, no matter who. 55800 users are credits in Swiss. It didn't profit those 55800, but it made it easier for them to pay in the future, I guess we're aware of that. I'm sure they won't be completely satisfied, but I also don't know about any previous success of government or government over our bankers, and this, well I won't say that success is a big compromise. I agree that there are reasons for screaming those who have been saving in kunas. I also know that bankers are not happy with this compromise, but what hangs over their heads. They are hanged by the judgment of the Commercial Court in Zagreb. The government isn't happy, she says it's small, the savings aren't satisfied. But let's just say this is "wolve full and all sheep numbered." Some people are wondering why it's been two years, but what I've been following for the past six months has been very manly to express myself to the bankers. Why don't we ask why it was waiting in 2005 until 2013? And that's my brother, my brother for eight years. So let's not say it's not a success. What about the euro, what about the kunas? That's what we can talk about, and we can talk about it. Why are interest more in Croatia than in Italy or Austria? But then again, we know that here every sixth or seventh kuna of credit is inaccessible. But I still say there's room at the banks because our bankers' bonuses are enormous. What is the point, however, means this law concerns housing loans, not those for business. That's what's really bothering me here. The judgment and the Trade Court concern the consumer, as regards the citizen, one who takes credit for the apartment not under the allegations of a professional who, for example, buys a business space. And now I'm asking if this under quotes professional, this hairdresser who bought a business space for her salon must be in a different position than the consumer who bought the apartment. However, it is now the matter of this judgment of the Trade Court. The effect of the united interest rate of 3.23% on monthly credit rates at the moment depends mostly on how long the loan is in repayment. The payments of loans that are at the end or in the second half of the repayment period will be reduced, they will be less, until more significant relief comes to the debtors who took the loans for 30 years, and have paid off the smaller part. According to the ministry's assessment, the averages should be less than a fifth, so that's the 20% of the existing ones. This is not small, and the reduction will be less or greater depending on the amount of the loan, the year in which the loan was taken and the repayment period of that loan. For example, credit rates worth 730000 kuna on the day of payment, taken for 30 years. It will decrease by 973 to 1432 kuna depending on which year it was taken whether 2005 or 2007. The same loan for 20 years will cost 729 to 877 kuna, but the problem is that the most banks, first of all, account for or charge for themselves means interest, only part of the principal, and the principal that makes up the larger share is charged at the end I would say that payment period or period. All in all, whatever anyone thinks, I think it would be good for the Croatian society to have a lot more of these compromises, even if they call those compromises failures.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56122	Thank you very much. The Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Mladen Novak are on their way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56123	Dear President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. We have tabled on this text, or on this same article, an amendment that is now in a significantly different situation, given that the Government has come with a new amendment. But she's what's important in that amendment that was made in agreement with Franak's association is conversion. So if there is a derogation to the 20% rate change, in fact, when it comes down to those 20% users, the consumer is obliged to change the currency within 30 days, agree to what the bank tells him, but the bank practically offered him other conditions far more favourable, under a certain currency. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that some lenders or credit users simply could not choose but were forced to take loans in Swiss banks because they were allegedly not capable of, creditworthy in other currencies. Now the bank's practically forced it, and now it's forcing it again. Well, I think the bank should bear a part of that risk, too, and I don't see here any reason why I have to be bound by this conversion. And the other thing and what we suggested in the debate was that mortgage loans were also included here because they didn't all take just residential loans, there were people who took loans for some other basis but they're mortgaged and they're practically in the same category. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56124	Thank you, too. No more reports. We conclude the debate on Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Amended Amendment to Government No. 1 of the Republic of Croatia to Article 3 of the Law. Please make a statement. Who is for Amended Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 80 votes in favour and 22 votes abstentions have been accepted by the amended Amendment No 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Article 3. We now move to Amendment 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Article 4. I ask the Deputy Minister to explain Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56125	Thank you very much, President. In this amendment, the proposed amendments only make it more clear how to calculate maximum interest rates on housing and consumer loans and define the prescribed chronology of the determination and publication of the average weighted interest rates. This is what Col. Djurovic said, in fact, means very clearly, and now within which deadlines, when the CNB, for which currencies publish the average weighted interest rates for all loans per currency. So only the methodology and chronology of this article is more clearly defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56126	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56127	Dear colleagues, well, as Mr. Deputy Minister has said, this amendment defines more clearly what the billing officer wanted to say. And that's actually what's kind of problematic about this amendment because it's asking a question and what the proposer was doing for six months then and why he couldn't technically formulate an article that's quite technical and wants to limit the maximum interest rate on housing loans. I therefore believe that, as I said in the discussion in the previous amendment, this amendment, in fact, regarding the determination of the maximum interest rate and the way in which this maximum interest rate will be determined, shows how important it is to actively involve the CNB in financial matters concerning the financial sector and the banking sector. I also understand that in fact this expression of this newly proposed article in this amendment was created as a result and the consequences of the involvement of the CNB. And I think, therefore, that both this law and these amendments that we are discussing today show that regardless of which segment of the banking and financial system for the sake of the CNB should not and should not remain on the side. Because the good part of the doubt and the good part of the unresolved issues, and I would say the different debates that have arisen about this law, is that the good part of the time the CNB was in a certain way passive. The HDZ Club will therefore support this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56128	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Independent List Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56129	Let's just get something straight before, you for this amendment. Once again, for example, a loan rate worth 730 thousand kuna on the day of payment will be reduced to 30 years from 973 to 1432 kuna depending on whether the loan is e.g. taken in 2005 or 2007 Now if you have that reduction of 973 kuna a month times 12, it's almost 12,000 kuna a year, times 15 years means in 15 years you're paying a interest less than 175 thousand. We're talking about these values up to 200 grand. So I'm talking. It's going to go down from 973 kuna times 12 that's 11.676, and times 15 years, you're going to pay $1755,000 in 15 years. Nice. And if this other 1,400 you'll pay 200 so many thousand kunas less. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56130	Thank you very much. Please. We have exhausted the debate on Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. By raising our hands, I would like to make a statement on Amendment No 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Article 4. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 104 votes, we have adopted Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Article 4. The law. I ask the Deputy Minister to explain Amendment number 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Article 10 of the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56131	Thank you very much. The amendment only improves the definition expression that the fixed margin interest rate replaces the fixed part of the interest rate only improves the expression, as is the second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56132	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There are no interested parties. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment No 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Article 10. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 103 votes, we have accepted amendment number 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Article 10. The law. And Amendment number 4 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Article 15, please Deputy Minister of Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56133	Thank you very much. It only defines that the law will be published in the National New and entered into force on 1 January 2014 means all provisions of that law. Moreover, I would add if it was possible only to enter a phonogram related to Article 10. Only that no-technical adjustment of amendments was made in this sub-paragraph of the 28th Tributary Service of the Assembly which was number 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56134	Thank you, too. I am opening a debate on Amendment 4 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's calling? No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. Please state who is for amendment number 4 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to article 15. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 104 votes, we have accepted amendment number four of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Deputy Minister, we are going to the amendments to the Legislative Committee. Amendment No 1 to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56135	Amendment 1 to Article 1 shall not be accepted. Since it is necessary to make a distinction between the items.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56136	He doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56137	He doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56138	Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn. Amendment No 2 to Article 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56139	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56140	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Dear Deputy Finance Minister, amendment of the respected HDSSB representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56141	It is not accepted for reasons since it was required to add to the calculation other than the annuity to add wars. Since it is the banks themselves define the product on the market and we cannot define it in the law. means every time you take credit, the bank offers whether you will pay something or via annuity or through war. The difference is that the anuities have let's say for the entire duration you have the same war, but the even ratio where the principals and interest and that part is smaller. However, in the war, it is much bigger for you at first and it is ultimately smaller for you, and that is why citizens did not accept that part of the war, although it is a standard financial product precisely because in the first years they have a much higher burden than at the end. Although in the war, you end up paying less interest, but because of that burden, it's probably not citizens, but it's a standard banking product, so I don't think it should be in this part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56142	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, the applicant for the amendments is a respected representative, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56143	Well, I'm sorry the Proposer doesn't accept the amendment. If our proposings only spent 10% of our energy on talking to MPs about some amendments compared to the energy they spend with various formal and informal groups on forming a bill, I believe that we would come up with much happier things in some legal solutions. So when it comes to this amendment, the amendment was indeed an attempt to further help the position of consumer credit users. If, then, the bank does not go to the credit product itself but only goes in the way of paying off the credit that the idea that simply if we press the interest we limit interest, we introduce the models of the interest calculation I did not see the reason why they would not and as a commitment that they only have to offer two models of payment by hand and annuity, in wars or annuity. And the basic advantage of paying in wars as the deputy minister has said is that the principal is equally accounted for throughout the payment period because a large number of citizens are disappointed when they see a single housing loan that after five years, they pay the credit that the principal is practically not even touched. And by paying off the war the principal is equal to, the same goes through the whole repayment period. So it wasn't, I don't think that would affect the position of banks or make it particularly difficult for them and for citizens who can and actually help to choose this model. Because this payment model is no longer an offer for housing loans. Banks don't offer it at all, not because of citizens, but because of their own interests. Here's the vote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56144	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the HDSB's Club of Representatives which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers to Article 3 of the Honored Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is not accepted in the introduction, as Mr Novak said, since the Government added the same article with its amendment. For that reason, it can't actually be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56146	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers, the respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56147	Thank you very much, President. As the Deputy Minister has explained, indeed, a groundless statement about the amendments that are practically identical is not identical but refers to the same problem on the same article. However, I must warn that those credit users who took up credit in Swiss francs and did not lend to them we did nothing to help them, even though the situation is even worse for them. On the other hand, by accepting what we said about conversion, that possibility would be avoided, and I don't think it's a very negligible part of the citizens and it would help them. And also that mortgage provision that you unfortunately didn't agree to, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56148	You're withdrawing the amendment? Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 101 votes, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Credit Act has been adopted in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56149	Both colleagues and colleagues for your information while there are still so many of us, we will discuss the amendments to the House Savings Act and the proposal for a Decision establishing a Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of Child Rights. So, from these two points, we would discuss it further today. We move to - Final proposal of the law on the completion of the House Savings Act and the state incentive of housing savings, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 495 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and you received reports at the session. On behalf of the proposer, Finance Minister Slavko Linic will explain the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56150	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You know that in accepting the 2014 budget guidelines, the Government has also adopted a series of additional austerity measures to try in some way to reduce the deficit that awaits us in 2014. The bill before you is one of the solutions to that savings. Why did we feel that we needed to save in that part too? We also consider it necessary to save on savings for the reason that the results of the current investment from the state budget have unfortunately not yielded the necessary results. Neither the number of apartments built nor the use of personal individual savings in a larger amount to build new apartments. Unfortunately, like many incentives from the budget, we must say that this one did not have any effect either. Why? In Croatia, we have 5 residential savings. Except for one, Wustenrot, everyone else is tied to business banking. Which means they have their tutors in business banks. Our incentives at this point are 10% of the amount paid and the maximum amount per year is 5 thousand kuna. So it's a 10% annual interest. That's the incentive we give from the budget. What are the results? So far from the budget is put into housing savings 2 billion kuna incentives. It would be to expect significant housing, a significant use of own savings, but unfortunately we have a total of 5.5 billion kuna paid somewhere. Which means 2 billion from the state and 3.5 billion savings. Simply such a relationship is not acceptable because it is too much of a share although only 10% of our incentive is obviously too much of the participation of state incentives, not of our own savings in building apartments. But then we wonder why, what's the result? Because, just so you know, 90% of your own savings have been used in a personal loan. And then we come to the fact that from the analysis we had, we have data that 87% of the savings solved their housing problems. So they don't need an apartment. That even 17% has two apartments or a house and an apartment. So, two properties. And apparently they have no interest in investing money in building apartments. Maybe they're saving up for kids and grandchildren, and maybe they're saving up to get something bigger interest. Although we have criminal sanctions if the money is raised within five years that it has to restore incentives. Thus, a short-term savings that does not benefit anyone because it does not provide families that are not residentially uninhabited and on the other hand does not encourage the construction sector to be built. And then we see that by structure because we see that there's a pretty big percentage of those who are over 50, 60 years old, which means grandparents are saving for their grandchildren. It's not a bad idea either. Any savings are welcome and long-term, but unfortunately at a time of crisis and in a time of struggle in which there is unfortunately no economic growth, no matter how much we spend on the budget, it is unfortunately only necessary to cut. And the moment you decide to cut average pensions that aren't from work over 5.5 thousand kuna and that's another measure that's also indicated in the state budget when you also estimate that you're not going to index and coordinate, when we simply and further have restrictions at the level of public and state sector employees' salaries, then we estimate that even these incentives can't give us any effect on economic growth, they don't have the effect of taking care of those who don't have an apartment and the solution was in the beginning where we even thought about a complete interruption of incentives, and then we said maybe it's a crisis that will last two years, maybe this measure won't be so at the moment that we don't just pay our share in 2014. This will be felt in 2015 if in 2014 we will pay the commitment for 2013 and still remains a commitment for 2012. Somewhere there are about 200 million kuna incentives we have to give, so it will be a savings of 200 million. Of course, as with the Consumer Loans Act, I would say very, very strong banking lobbys that did everything to keep these laws from coming. But we also need to understand that efficiency, I always say the efficiency of spending money from the budget is very important. Unfortunately, we didn't find him here, nor did we find an excuse for this further investment. Therefore, the savings are welcome and the savings will likely be supported today-to-morrow, but first we will have our deficits below 3% and first the economy will have to have economic growth so that in some way we can justify these investments from the state budget. It should also be noted that the constitution in total housing loans, and there are those we discussed earlier, the savings only take part with 5.5%. It just shows something else, that really citizens didn't have the opportunity to save five years and wait for some support but simply went into the banking system and owed themselves. This is why we are simply unable to find any justification that in the crisis where we will have large cuts in 2014, and these cuts you will be familiar with the state budget because indeed an additional expenditure of 4.5 billion of our EU membership needs to be found ways to reduce such new expenditures on our own irrational spending. And that is why the final proposal, which is now in front of you in part, is to not make payments for 2014 but to be part of the savings programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56151	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of HDZ and counterpart Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56152	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with his associates. I honestly don't understand what you're saying about fiscal projections and savings in 2014 when this payment will only come in 2016. Because if I'm not mistaken this year, you paid off at the beginning of the year the interest incentives for social promotional housing paid off in 2011. Therefore, if you cancel 2014 that effect in the budget will only be seen in 2016. But I'm saying everyone has a right and I don't want anyone to respect me for representing the banking lobby. I, unlike the minister some seven and eight years ago, halved this encouraging housing savings, so it's going to take so long to not be attributed to me again. So on whether she has-has no results after having invested 2 billion kuna in the last 13 years, I think at this point it's far more rational to think about what will happen if you don't give God if those housing savings collapse. How long will it take to pay off DAB funds? I think it's one of the key questions. And we can differ here in thinking whether this socially stimulating housing should, not be, whether it has responded to its tasks or not, but look at your colleagues and colleagues, we cancel the special SMS tax that brought to the 350, 400 million budget to those who have an annual profit somewhere almost 4 billion cumulatively, and here we say that our problem is 200 million kuna for stimulating housing savings. Very strange math. And that's a safe source of income. And did these huge investments in telecommunications come true? No, they're not. One of the taxes that is very discriminatory and misnamed is not that reduction in tourism rates but a reduction in the rate of hospitality. In tourism, the VAT rate from 22% to 10% was reduced in 2007. This reduction in the rate of hospitality, and I would say a direct redistribution of funds from one continental part of Croatia practically according to one segment, and this is also about billions, this is not about hundreds of millions. I don't think anything of those great guests at sea got cheaper this year because their rate is 10%. After all, you're raising that rate to 13% now. I'm saying I don't want to be here at all, and I don't want everyone to have the right to de-polmise about what's going on with that DPS, but someone introduced him, and we all did while you were vice president of the government and I was later minister and there were some colleagues who have been raising hands all these years to pay for it. Now there's one elemental question, what's the fiscal benefit? It's that special income from the DPS and everything that happens across housing savings, by analysis not to me or someone from HDZ I think it's the Institute of Public Finance doing, so their assessment and assessment that the state budget is practically if the DPS reduces its activities will be directly damaged by 300 million kuna. So there's the same question, and I'm saying more like what, that's not the effect of 2014. So this government has been doing fiscal projections for its 2014/2015 term. This will not be paid in 2016. And I really don't see if you're going to pay off next year, actually the 2014 incentive for 2012, so you're going to have a budget cost. You'll have it in your deficit. Or maybe I read something wrong. So on that side, I don't understand why this measure. And the other thing if all the truth is what you said then you should have made it clear we will no longer finance stimulating housing, socially stimulating housing savings, with this story ending and over. 'Cause look what we're sending right now is a message to all potential savings. So, for 2014, we won't pay for housing savings. I doubt anyone's going to invest if they know they're not getting the money. And another thing, not knowing what will happen in future times. Because look, if we look at the European Community projections, if we look at the projections of international financial institutions, we don't have any astronomical and economic growth in 2016, so we don't have some big expansion to change that. Because while there's no economic growth of 2.5.3%, it's hard for anyone to feel anything. That's why I really don't understand this measure, if you were already going to introduce this, then you should have cut if you didn't mean to cut off you should have left it and finished. If it's just enough to show that it's... Come on, and I can understand that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for opinions, awards, World Bank reforms, look, I just happened to get a top ten-ten award from the world's bank reformer. But it's not worth it. But what the World Bank writes to you is very valuable. So if someone gets that prize and it's listed in that book, then there's probably some kind of reform. If I'm not mistaken, you've been saying that you've found a clean state in the Ministry of Finance about the organization and everything. Well, if we're talking about some things, then let's get things straight. Even so, this DPS does not have a single opinion either in HDZ or in the SDP. Some thoughts and opinions about whether these funds were used, whether only those who would buy an apartment or other tomorrow could have saved money, it is evident that people were saving in there, it should not be kept secret because they had a relatively high interest rate compared to any other savings. Whether these savings have credited housing depends on their business policy. But I repeat, Mr. Minister, I don't understand why this law if it has an effect in the 2016 budget. If you think there's a better, more efficient way to encourage housing, then that should have been cut off. I personally consider at a given moment and colleagues from the ministry I think it was in 2007 that simply such an incentive should not be given and we halved it, with the ultimate tendency likely that one day it and... But we specifically said from next year there's no more 10% but it's going to be 5% or no 5% is going to be 2.5%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But this is not going to pay off the incentive to, uh, live savings for 2014 is really not understandable to me. I don't understand either economics, I don't understand what you're doing as Minister of Finance and we as Assembly MPs will, by all means, have no effect on the fiscal picture that's the ugliest in next year. And most importantly, what you said about 2011, there's a one-time shipbuilding deficit. It's known how it's going to work, but unfortunately, in the 2014 deficit, you don't have a one-time cost, you don't have a one-time cost to disappear next year, and that's seen by the 2015 deficit projections. And that's why I wouldn't want to go back to the debates that don't lead us anywhere. I think we all need to think together about the measures that will bring us into some real context. Because if this unfortunately stays this way then the public debt will explode for about 60 billion in the next three years. But then we won't, we can complain it's this one, it's the one, he gave this one like this, like that. And Mr. Minister, I don't think it's a good idea for you to declare some of the measures one way or another. Because I'm saying there are a variety of stories today about pre-fashion settlements. And they brought... After all, we all voted there for them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We said it was something to encourage. I personally did not like those 40 articles of the Regulation that had changed. I also don't understand this law. And that is why on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, we have proposed an amendment simply not to go with this because you will not achieve anything. For those who would like to be shown as a measure in 2014, there is no measure because in 2014 an incentive housing savings for 2012. So this is something that would only be seen in the 2016 budget and I think that energy, power should be invested on another measure that would make up for that 200 million but in 2014 rather than 2016. That is why our support or not support this law depends on the amendment we have given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56153	The Republic of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56154	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, you spoke in your debate about the tax on catering services. And it's been so since 1.1.2006. he was 10% on accommodation services in tourism. And it's quieting down here. And that 10%. accommodation services are in the revenues of tourist companies around 70, 75% of total revenues. And then in 1.1.2013, it came down to 10% tax, VAT 2013 means catering services. And that makes those other 20s, 25% of the income. And what have we done? If we're going to raise this to 13%, it's a bear service to Croatian tourism, so to speak. Because we're going to do the uncompetitive part that we've had since 2006 and most of the income, and these 10 to 13 for catering services is not going to contribute to anything. And that's what we saw this year because the caterers were very nice, neatly rubbing their hands and prices were even higher than what they were supposed to be. Nothing was cheaper, or coffee, or any drink, or any food. And as for the housing savings, I've been saving for my two kids for eight years or nine. In 2000 there, 2001. Croatia was full of agents who dragged people by the sleeve of savings, savings, savings. Today you're in a situation where if a law like this is passed to go nicely to a housing savings facility tomorrow, you have every condition to raise it, which belongs to you, and thank you to the state for caring for the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56155	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56156	Thank you very much. I mentioned a tax for those who paid him did not feel it at all, which is a special tax on SMS messages, but which was quite treasonous. He was simply not to be abolished because there was no reason to do so. Because at the end of the day, colleagues and colleagues, look how small you are now... when we entered the European Union, six times smaller. It's because we cut the text, it's not, it's simply because not everyone can act like they're going. Either you go to BiH or Serbia and forget to turn off the Internet, I think after 24 hours your head falls apart from your account, and we also download their SMS. Why, I don't see any reason. I would have been happier if the minister had made that package of tax laws that he had planned and then they could have clashed there it was so, it's not so, this kind of partial solution to this with hospitality I think the biggest damage was caused for the state budget because the real assistance in tourism was organised accommodation. So if someone paid for lunch, dinner, breakfast and accommodation he had 10%, and he didn't pay 22 or 23% for that lunch. And as for the DPS, look and they are guaranteed savings as well as all other business banks. If God doesn't, we'll have to pay for that insurance savings. And I'm saying, I don't know what can happen if people see that in 2016 they won't get a boost for 2014, and I'm saying we can take different thoughts about what their benefit was and in the end I've said my personal opinion, after all, and I've taken some concrete steps. And that's why I think if I had to do this then or should have said no more or simply leave it as it is because 2016 is going to be someone else's concern, certainly not this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56157	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56158	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, you've made your point very clearly, which is also clear that you know the matter since you were Minister of Finance. In his statement, however, the minister said that because the funds from the savings were actually spent, that only 54% went into savings, were used to buy apartments, housing, and the rest was actually a simple, classic savings, and that the state no longer wanted to support with its funds such savings. So the man wonders too much if he does not want to support such savings, if those 500 kuna a year are saved by housing savings for housing or buying an apartment, which is why the savings are not denied the right, to all those who do not prove and cannot prove that the funds were used to buy an apartment, so it does not get... funds. The one who buys the apartment and when he buys it gets 500 kuna a year. Very easy to solve. ... How can he not? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A housing savings company delivers, a man buys an apartment and that those assets that belong to him after 10 years, I'm saving for his grandson, he's going to be 5 now in 18 years, for 13 years, buy him an apartment, so let the state pay him that 500 kuna in 13 years. It's the same moratorium as this, for one year, even bigger, even better, but I'm proving that I intended to buy an apartment for my granddaughter.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56159	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56160	Now, fellow Grubisic, if everything were the way it was legally drawn, then today we wouldn't be having bile debates like this at all. Everything was beautiful and wonderful because the law predicted itself well, then the story went in another direction. Thus, it is likely that someone predicted that these housing savings would be credited under more favourable interest conditions to build apartments, that people who were saving would get another cheaper loan somewhere else and buy that apartment, so the state made a decision to release the first real estate tax on real estate, but the story happened elsewhere. But then, with this downturn, when someone announces to you the elimination of property tax relief first, which is fiscally completely uninteresting, I don't think there's any more than 60 million kuna in the budget, I don't think it's any more, then normally that's what's going on. But I repeat, we can discuss this whenever we want, but whoever proposes the law must look at both the blackest and the brightest variant. So about the blackest variant, unfortunately, it can happen that one of the housing savings is going down, we have to pay for it. But what's very interesting is that today we've been here all day discussing banks, the banking sector. Most of these housing savings are based on a large bank, if not in Croatia, then it dragged it from the outside. So there are also certain links. However, it should also be looked at when certain things were created, just as with these citizens' loans, unfortunately when in Croatia you couldn't even imagine that you would get a loan or that you would get a more favourable interest rate for something. I'm saying whether or not they were supposed to think it's totally de afraid to discuss it today, but I think if the government were going to do something fiscally that it should have suddenly cut or given up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56161	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56162	Thank you very much. A fellow Shuker, the question arises when you were saying whether this is a savings measure in 2014, the question is whether this is even a austerity measure and whether this measure is without consequence. Of course, the law has not fully met its purpose, of course there have been negative phenomena, but the law is not good in each part defined and should have been changed, but no incentives should be abolished. First of all, it is necessary to amend an article that defines that if it is not raised within five years that it does not have to return the incentive, only if the savings are raised before the end of five years. It's important whether or not a purpose has been achieved. The purpose of housing savings is to raise loans to residential loans and to adapt apartments. The long-term solution and only the correct solution is not to give interest incentives on savings, but to subsidise interest on housing loans under conditions such as offering up to 5% of the state interest will subsidise with 2% of interest on the person who takes the housing loan. They'd avoid everyone, the effect would be much higher, and the cost would be lower. Why is it possible for someone to encourage isolated housing savings as a savings interest? It's inadmissible, it has no purpose at all. That's something to change. But this is not the way, even though this amendment you've been saying is accepted then it's acceptable for us. But in the long run, we need to change this law completely but not in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56163	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56164	Thank you very much. A fellow Maric, the very word of the savings bank says that they are being saved, not saved on them. And as for interest-subsidisation, the HDZ Government adopted the law in 2010 and applied in 2011. It definitely proved to be the most efficient in buying apartments primarily for young families because the state in the state budget subsidized interest and with far less resources, a far greater effect was achieved. And I completely agree with you. So at some point someone passed some kind of law. He obviously did not fully serve the purpose. Well, now if we're going to change the law, we're going to change it to serve or we're going to cancel it, and I'm not going to use any of the Zagreb jargon solutions that just don't lead us anywhere, just to show that we're doing something. Because I don't think it's simply time for us to make moves in Croatia to just show that we're doing something to the team anymore which is not an effect that will be seen in 2014. In 2014, you have to pay all the savings in housing savings incentives for 2012, 2015 you have to pay off the incentives for 2013. Only in the 2016 budget would this fiscal effect be seen and I find it really strange that the minister suggested this. But I'm saying, it's very interesting that today no one will say that most of these housing savings are tied to large systems just like voluntary pension funds, i.e. The second pillar of pension is also tied to large banks. But today we're staring, and in 7, 8 or 10 years, when these pensioners have little pensions, then someone else will be guilty again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56165	Minister Slavko Linic is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56166	A little correction. Introducing the practice of paying off for two years is something my colleague Dalic seasoned. Therefore, the 2011 incentives were to be paid in 2012. We paid off in January, paid off year after year. Therefore, all commitments this year will be paid next year. So, all commitments for 2013 will be paid in 2014 but stands. This isn't the effect we'll see in 2014 but we'll see it. The law was passed in 1998. Its efficiency can be seen every year. Last year, again in the fight to reduce the deficit, the finance ministry opened talks on the solution. Our proposal to the housing communities was that it would remain an incentive only not to be paid on savings, but to build and use credits. It's been refused. And there's no talking. They think they'll shut down the activity then. So if you teach someone since '98. to this day how to behave, then it's very difficult to change. And that's why communication with the banking sector sees what it's like. Out of 5 savings rooms 4 are covered with parent banks in Croatia. These banks didn't push citizens towards their savings to be in debt, they gave them Swiss. So, what's the effect of this? And we're always talking about incentives. You know, I wouldn't communicate about the Institute of Public Finance. I really wouldn't communicate. Because saying that we're going to lose 300 million if we stop the 200 million-million-dollar incentives. What does that mean? That we're inciting employees in savings? So what's the difference? We stopped paying employees in the Croatian Railways. Don't talk to me about such a thing. The question remains what are these incentives for? These incentives serve to build apartments, to try to provide carefree families, and now we see that this is a law that serves to save for future children the same good, humane intention, but the question is whether we should encourage from the state budget. Do you need it? I can accept the remark and it is not a problem to accept the observation that this problem should definitely be solved. At this point, we solved it in this way by temporarily not providing the funds in 2014 and it will not be paid in 2015, it will not be paid. Because we're going to cover 12th and 13th something this year, something next year. Therefore, the payments of the thirteen will be at the fourteenth. What the Government will conclude in 2014 regarding further policies on this, we will see. But try to understand that there's no deal with the savings either. Or it will be as defined in '98. In addition to these changes that Mr. Schucker says the incentives were significantly reduced when it was seen that there was little efficiency in this system we are proposing at this point no payment for '14. which will follow in '15. That seems to be the way we can talk because otherwise there's no talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56167	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56168	I wouldn't want him to stay in the air hanging out that someone was hiding something again, but it was normal from the time you were Deputy Prime Minister to always pay off the incentives in the first and second months, although the first month was the most fiscally difficult, precisely because housing savings had practically final accounts at the time. And that's why it wouldn't turn out again if someone was covering something up and leaving someone behind, so that's it. I also quoted the Institute of Public Finance here as not going into analysis, but we're going logically if we sell apartments for a billion kuna of VAT is 250 million. So they probably meant it. And I purposely opened the story that housing savings are tied to business banks and that something would not be attributed to HDZ again. And why is that? And why did I mention pension funds? Well, that's exactly why we're seeing how no matter who's in the government, we're spinning in a Gordian knot. And how we're tied to some things. And as these problems arise fiscally late in the budget. And that's the debate I'd like to have with you ministers, then probably wouldn't be very different. And with these bickerings that don't lead anywhere because eventually the money's spent it won't get us anywhere. Because guarantees, you remember that one evening debate when the city of Rijeka decided to guarantee "3. May," where politics can take some things to. But I repeat, this decision is unfortunately not going to help you, I think it's going to cause a bigger panic than anything else, and I think this 200 million could have been solved in some smarter way, in energy to defend this law for something else. It's my personal point of view, but I supported it with the fact that at some point I cut practically for half something for the reason that I honestly had doubts about how the funds were being spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56169	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56170	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you were talking about the interest of both the owner and those on whom housing savings are based. Of course the interest is huge. Interest even blinds the purpose of existence. And in this case, that's what's happening. But isn't it logical not to reward the one who saves in the housing savings, that he is rewarded without rewarding the one who saves in the bank? But more housing loans are approved significantly in the banking sector than through housing savings. The state now encourages and finance interest on savings for those who save in housing savings, not those who save in the bank. The question arises why... does not make and solve with a simple solution that if someone now raises within six years of saving he pulls and encourages. Why this five-year-old deadline? Who invented it? Let's change it, it's not logical or normal. Do you agree that it should be changed? Let's change it. What does five years mean? So someone who saves 4.5 years won't get incentives, and someone who saves 5 years and one day he'll get incentives. Who set this kind of magical frontier? And there's no point. The point is if he won't raise a housing loan, then the state can't reward him for saving only in housing, and housing loans will be the banking sector and there will be no incentives. It is therefore logical not to remove incentives but to abolish those who do not raise that they cannot use these incentives and not actually get to subsidize that interest on savings. Let's remove that five-year-old because he doesn't serve anything. I don't know what it's for.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56171	Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56172	An initiative was launched last year to amend this law because it has no incentive effects. Enough to say that when a citizen opens his account he has to pay 1% of the deposited amount. So he's already giving up his money on behalf of those who work there. Which means no incentive from the savings bank to him, but it's being charged to him. Also why pay the savings? You don't have to. The result of the savings should be paid, and this means incentives for the built-up floor, arranged apartment, renovated apartment, etc. But there's no communication. Violent communication that we have where money is spent by the savings bank to pay the Institute of Public Finance that only then calculates, so listen, if we stop working, we won't pay any taxes, so you'll have losses. Yeah, that's one time. But it's spending money on purpose to wage war, not to conduct communication. Therefore, the move initially proposed that the ministry abolish and end this trauma. Because there's no effect. And we're saying it's not a problem, we're going to be communicating all over 2014 because this is one year's stalemate. I guess we'll be able to communicate new solutions, and those solutions will be now you give incentives to every new savingsman, give him an extra kuna, and don't take it for your work because you must have some founding capital. And vice versa, the incentive only goes for the effects of this savings. He's not going to savings anymore. And it's no problem we'll change, we'll determine but I hope we can communicate because... we don't accept. So it's no problem to change the law, but what if you change the law when those who need to implement it and implement it are going to stop their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56173	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labour Party Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56174	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. This Proposal for a Law on Housing Savings and State Incentives of Housing Savings, which are temporarily abolished in 2014 is the state incentive means for us to further process the systematic reduction of certain rights of citizens, and can ultimately have some far-reaching and greater consequences. Citizens are no longer hoping for anything good, they have lost certain faith, they are convinced that they want to be peeled where they can be and the question is only where is the threshold of endurance. Labourers don't see any valid reason to pass a law like this. By abolishing state incentives yesterday or practically at the beginning of this year from 15% to 10%, now the suspension for 2014, tomorrow it will be permanent here, already being considered today, is neither economically nor socially justified for which there are a number of reasons. Unlike the minister who says his statements that it is not justified for adults to save for children. I wonder, and I really don't know what's justified then? If we look at the picture itself that we are at the top of the number of unemployed, especially young people, it is not justified that the army from 63,000 young to 24 years on HZZ and simply have no chance of getting to work saving parents, grandparents if they can't do it themselves. If that is not the case, we are very different in justification and inexcusableness, as well as in how to enable young people to live better. I don't know, maybe this government is just interested in young people working for 1,600 kuna under Mrsic's laws, maybe young people working with employers who take advantage of them and don't pay overtime, blackmailing them with contracts for a certain period of time, not paying their salaries. I don't know, maybe there's no need for young people to have an apartment or a house, maybe they really don't need it, because I have to wonder if their perspective is that like a bird village flying around Croatia and looking for a job if they can't find it. They may find a nest nest in another city, but at seasonal jobs or at jobs for a certain time. If that's the perspective they really don't need an apartment or a house. And if they do not find a job in the country, they can seek happiness for example in Canada, Austria, Germany, and there will be easier to cope. That's where I can, for example. earn three to four times the salary, and maybe one of them comes back when he makes enough money and buys an apartment or a house here. If that's what we're thinking, then we really don't need housing savings, but we don't need incentive funds. It would be best to close them immediately. I don't want to think about the consequences of their elimination that can arise in the building sector that's still on the air. On the other hand, the savings from this kind of proposal in the state budget will only be seen for here we said for 2 to 3 years when there is another government and not this government. And the consequences could be next year. The proposed one-year suspension of the payment of the state incentive means can lead to the loss of trust in the security of housing and income expected. This may result in a decision to reroute funds to other placements. Logically, this should be the decision of every reasonable savings that due to legal uncertainty no longer invests in housing savings but that the funds are available in a different and safer way. The creation of legal and economic uncertainty for housing saves but also for housing savings can stop any further savings-credit activity and the possibility of development and so much needed investment in this country. In addition, there is the impression that such temporary suspension can be extended for a future period of which neither housing savings nor housing savings will be able to have any effect if we do not pay for the next year then we can go indefinitely for years. This could lead to a complete collapse of the housing savings system within a very short period of time and can result in irreparable consequences on the housing savings system, given that the once lost trust of the savings and investors in practice is almost impossible to recover or repair. Finally, the liquidation or bankruptcy procedures of housing savings can also be expected, and in this case the activation of DAB funds, which would have a very large negative impact. All of this can create a further very negative picture of us being legally insecure to investors. In addition to the discipline, a one-year moratorium on the payment of state incentive funds for 2014 is intruding into already concluded housing contracts and savings rights under these contracts, which remains quite a problem. In this respect, the comments of the House Savings Committee are justified that the public debate is not being conducted on such a proposal, that the proposal is not the result of a public debate but is a completely new proposal that creates a picture of the authenticity of the legislator's amendments to the law. Certain analyses argue that one kuna invested in state incentives creates two kunas of additional value, making housing savings very justified. The fiscal effects are more significant and include all the amounts of contributions paid, taxes and taxes in the state budget and budgets of local units arising from the liabilities of housing savings banks. All these expenditures go directly or indirectly to a state or local budget that will not be if the savings are closed and this is the way to the process. We can ask ourselves a series of questions about the justification of housing savings in which it saves around, according to the data I came to about 730 thousand savings. As a justification for the abolition of state incentives, only the purchase of the apartment is mentioned and the others are neglected. Because there's also spent other than buying real estate 889, there's adaptation 816, there's construction 147, there's credit payment, there's land purchase, etc. But there's also probably five years after those funds were raised that are invested somewhere but are nowhere to be recorded in improving housing conditions. There may be some who abuse stimulating resources but that is no reason to put everything in the same basket but should also create other mechanisms of protection. Living savings is a sensitive issue, and therefore we should talk in a different way, and that means substantially changing the law that will prescribe who can use these funds and who does not. I will only say as an example whether to introduce an income censorship that the rich do not exercise those rights that the minister spoke of, whether those who have an adequately resolved housing issue in a newer facility do not exercise the right to do so do not want to take into account, I do not want to take into account any other information that is very important when we talk about this problem. Like. We have 10.6% of apartments that don't have water toilets, 11.6% that don't have bathrooms, 4.6% doesn't have water connection, could they use the resources to fix their living conditions? The energy efficiency of a residential building in Croatia that is questionable is not even being considered and will need significant resources to improve the existing situation. And what these funds can be very useful and very important in saving energy. It is precisely in improving living standards and achieving many side benefits that housing is of central importance, so all forms of its incentive are more than useful. In other countries, too, housing incentives have their own traditions, such as Germany, Slovakia, Austria, the Czech Republic and Romania, with 1,000 euros to 250 euros. The total property of five residential savings is about 7.5 billion kuna in 2012, which is not negligible. The total profit in taxation was 86 million kuna and housing savings employed a total of about 6 thousand persons, of whom about 400 were constantly employed in the labor contract while others were staff, external associates or agents. The average savings in housing savings are 3800 kuna per year and that is about 300 kuna per month, which shows that it is not true that they only use the property because then they would have a significantly higher savings average. Infringement of the housing savings system resulting from the proposed amendments to the law could lead to endangerment, achievement of important social objectives, housing of a significant part of the population. In the event of bankruptcy of housing savings, the activation of the State Insurance Agency for Savings Deposits and Banks, the payment of secured savings, which could amount to around 3 billion kuna somewhere. Therefore, Croatian Labourists will not support amendments to the law on reducing incentives because they are heading towards a complete abolition of incentives as well as creating non-confidential citizens. Therefore, we offer certain other solutions for the payment of incentives for 2014 to move from the current 60 days to 14 months so that the savings would not be denied for the payment of incentives and the budget would remain damaged for one year. And thus, the ministry's obligations to the savings would be extended in one year, and in this way it would save the savings and ensure that there is still trust in the work of the savings banks and those who save in them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56175	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56176	Thank you, Vice President. Your esteemed colleague, you impose through sentences of uncertainty, will seek a more stable, safer way of saving. What we are discussing is why this change of law, which is housing savings is not saving the elderly for the children to save, which is why it is also used for the future in another way to the banks, savings is investment for the future where the elderly invest for the younger or you say those who can't work and someone else helps them because at this point it's an economic crisis. The point is that this is why housing savings were used to increase interest rather than to be used for housing care and possible adaptations. And all the numbers and analyses indicate that it wasn't used properly. And just fearing the citizens with the savings being abolished, the savings obviously won't go away. However, this is certainly a warning to residents that they must start acting differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56177	Replication response, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56178	Thank you very much, Vice President. So we don't impose anything, we express our position that we think is acceptable and that it's justified, and around certain analyses I can suspect certain analyses. When it's said whether the means of use to improve housing conditions or not, I've been in my discussion and said, after five years someone can raise those funds and can use these funds to introduce in his house a water supply if he didn't have enough money or if he didn't have water, he can arrange his toilet and flush when that part of the job is finished. Is there somewhere in the records and analysis of what was done with that money? No, it doesn't exist. So I was talking about the need to systematically resolve the issue of savings, not in this way to cut it off by creating a certain great uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56179	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56180	Thank you very much. Comrade Tušak, you have said that this measure, or this bill, will do the most damage to construction. Construction in Croatia is in such a collapse that its recovery will not help even a much more powerful lever than housing savings, but I think that this provision or this bill will now do the most harm to those who will decide to raise credit just in 2015 because they will not be able to use an incentive from 2014, and most of it will benefit those who will, meanwhile, decide to withdraw savings and thus encourage it. In fact, it will act stimulatingly towards raising savings, and that's why I mentioned that five-year deadline, and I would like to see the minister refer later, whether there is any rational reason to keep that deadline. In fact, the withdrawal of savings draws incentives, but it also reduces the credit potential of housing savings and rewards only those who are actually jeopardizing that potential and therefore I don't think there is any reasonable reason to keep that 5-year term and to allow anyone to withdraw the incentive by withdrawing the savings. And I'd like to, the minister forgot to refer to it a little while ago, so if there's any reason I don't know how to explain it. It's very simple to solve and legally, but it would be useful to the House Savings Act, it would act stimulatingly to increase savings, it would make it impossible to raise savings and reduce credit potential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56181	Replication response, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56182	Thank you. My colleague Maric fully agrees with you, especially with that finding when you said that construction is on the extremity. That's why I was warning, this can only be an extra burden to that construction industry to go down and not survive, no investments, no investments. And this second part when you were talking about uncertainty, it has a chain reaction. The withdrawal of these money leads to a very awkward situation of the current savings bank and which could be found in a very invisible situation, to bankruptcy and liquidation, and which clearly leads to one total mistrust and I think that this move can benefit only some other financial institutions, and not in this case citizens and savings banks, which should, with certain corrections and changes, right now control and that these certain funds are heading towards those who need them most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56183	Igor Radjenović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56184	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here, Mr. Tušak, let's talk facts. I've been listening very carefully to your debate, and as well as to the HDZ Club, so you have opposed this proposal, let's talk about facts. 2 billion is this state, taxpayers have invested in housing savings in the 15 years that exist. For 2 billion 5.5 billion loans, totaled. It's 3.5 billion right now. So 40% we've triggered something to achieve the goal of the housing savings. So exclusive core business, that's all they do. If that's worth it, you're on your own. Only 5.5% of housing loans go through housing savings, everything else through commercial banks. Have we achieved our goal? Obviously not. It's another fact. The deficit in this country is we heard in 2011. 26 billion, this year 15 and so, one methodology, another, but definitely too big. We eat our battery, we don't pay back our debts. And I guess we have to cut something off somewhere and see for good reason what we're going to encourage in this country and what we're not going to encourage. Look, now we could do an analysis to make it good for GDP and the economy to once again paint all the tunnels that the HAC painted or to build some 3-4 non-existent positions. It'd be good, let's pay the builders, they've got their workers, personal consumption, and we'll raise GDP. Is it common sense to encourage something that has no ultimate purpose, let's all ask ourselves about it. The deal takes two, you heard the minister at the start. Living savings tell us how to encourage you to really encourage housing. They don't want to talk about the incentive coming when really the apartment is built or we can talk about these tens of thousands built apartments to see, to buy these already built apartments or around, I agree with what you've been saying, about the arrangement and about the adaptation, but we need to see that. We had a solution in 2000 when we had the relief of housing savings when really 100% of those reliefs started and when it triggered...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56185	Replication response, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56186	Thank you. You're asking why we haven't achieved our goal. I could ask you why we haven't achieved our goals because by looking at savings, it's not our invention, the savings are very successful in doing business and working, and it's very beneficial for citizens I listed both in Germany and Austria and in the Czech Republic and Slovakia and Romania. Why isn't that working for us and elsewhere? Because we're not systematically looking for a solution. We're just looking for a blanket solution and then we're talking about the consequences that they are. If we had accepted jobs at the beginning of this term and resolved the savings issue, the purposeful spending of these funds, we would have been encouraged to know what they were spending on today would have been likely to have different results. We'd be different maybe in construction as well. But no, we didn't. You ask me why we haven't achieved our goal. I'm asking you why you haven't achieved your goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56187	Minister Slavko Linic asked for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56188	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ha I'll tell you a thousand times a non-intentional spending is something that needs to be stopped at a time of crisis. We give incentives to 400,000 savings. 28000 credits have been granted, and since they're saving two, three, say, 80,000 people have spent their resources on purpose. Of 400,000, how much is that? 20%. 15 years old, this law is 15 years old. What does that mean? To raise more than 300,000 people after six years. And I hear that in the debate, so maybe he fixed the bathroom. I fixed it, but I didn't take the incentive. What kind of discrimination is that? What are we talking about? So I save, I take the state, and I fix the bathroom. A million Croatian citizens fix their house, their apartment, does not take the initiative. Therefore, it is not a purposeful spending of money. We don't give money to get 10% of the state's incentive to save. We don't put savings on it. And listen, the easiest thing to do is not make a suggestion. So I'm telling you, the Ministry of Finance has been running polemics for a year, debates, public debates about consumer loans. Today you see that the final text is coming, the final proposal, and tonight we're meeting with the banks on their initiative, we're talking. Just me as a minister a dozen, 15 conversations with the association, what with the bankers. Yeah, that's the level of communication in the Republic of Croatia. Okay. It's the government's fault. I'd be much happier if I'd suggested that, incentivise that but on investment, not on savings. He doesn't want to talk about it. Those who are the ones who encourage unintended consumption, because savings, officials there encourage. Just save you six years and run. Yeah, they don't want to talk about us changing the rules. I suggest you give us an amendment, and some of us will seriously consider it. Only you can propose an amendment, not delay the payment because we haven't solved anything. Suggest an amendment, payment of incentives only by investment, only dedicated spending of funds. We've solved everything. The truth of the savings bank will stop its work. Why? Because instead of 400,000 savings, there will be 60, 70,000 savings. Yeah, that's the problem with savings that didn't attract citizens to save on them, they didn't attract. So make that suggestion. Here we have a proposal from fellow Maric. You know, you have to set a time limit. You have no right to block the savings for 20 years. Freedom of movement capital, this, that. Because if we do six years, after six years, he'll take it. If we plant 8 years, after 8 years he'll take it, but we can't get him to have no right to raise his savings because he can change his mind until the investment itself. Well, then we say vice versa, we don't give savings any incentive but by investing. And that's all you suggest and let's see if they agree to the savings. The Ministry of Finance didn't make it. We didn't make it! No deal! And then we say okay, let's go with these solutions. There's no money for 2014 so I guess we'll talk better this year. Although I don't believe it, because I see the aggression of the banking system on every part is terrible. He wants money from the state, he wants money from the citizens and nothing else. That's the problem. Therefore, any amendment in the part of solving this problem to encourage goes for responsible spending, we will gladly accept for the purpose of spending.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56189	Replica Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56190	Thank you. Well, you ministers can fix the toilet with your incomes, but in our country there are close to a million citizens who barely end with an end, from month to month, manage to cover. Very little I can put aside to save. If they also save in certain savings, they could use those incentive funds after a few years, and then they could fix their toilets. Who needs to be in control? Well, I think that state should have certain mechanisms to control where certain funds are spent and to create certain legal frameworks. And I would very much like to put an amendment like this on the proposal, but the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliament just won't let me. My amendment can only go to your proposal and accordingly, and I have made a proposal to extend the incentive funds for a year, and clearly when we take the time period, this government will practically not even hang on that these incentives should be allocated to the savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56191	Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56192	I would like to remove the dilemma of any law that has been passed in this Croatian Assembly does not stimulate and encourage state incentives to save, none. So no one has the right to get an incentive based on savings and then pick it up and take it because that means that we have a 3% savings in banks, maybe which percent more if it's tied up, and that's not even blinking here, there's 10%. So where's the logic? It doesn't make sense. So that must be the means. Now I'm asking what we're bringing the state to? What we're going to do now is we're going to control the business of every savings bank that will just say so, so listen, he's been doing six years and he's taken the money, according to the law. What are we gonna do about it? Control now and five savings with 500 employees why are they doing this? Why? Why, are they taking savings? And on the other hand, it's the data that's so visible to me. That data shows that 87% has a fixed apartment. So does he have any real intention of building an apartment? There isn't. 17% of them have two properties, all of which are data that show that those who come into the housing savings have no intention of investing in the apartment, have no intention. And that's what we're trying to tell you is that it's unintentional. And since we're going to the savings and we're going to take the pensioners, we're going to take the employees, why are we going to allow non-intentional savings? In a year, we haven't been able to reach communication. So that's a suggestion, let's stop giving for a year, let's stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56193	Thank you. Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56194	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, it is not at all questionable that housing savings have not fully fulfilled their purpose. There is no need to talk about it at all. And all you've given the data are accurate, measurable, verifiable, and these are facts. The truth is, there's no negotiation with the savings, there's no deal with them. Well, he can't go with banks, he can't go with pension funds. But I ask, does anyone ask how many people they want tax? Does anyone ever ask how much they want a real estate tax? It should be determined according to the occurrences. Of course, I'm not into blocking savings or blocking savings, but I can't change what I've been talking about by any amendment, I would suggest it, it can't be solved, and you say it doesn't make sense or that it can take incentives for someone who isn't purposefully so stimulated, incentives stimulate savings don't stimulate savings savings, exclusively incentives. So let's stop someone from accidentally taking the incentives. It's the key to everything. Because it is precisely they who will benefit most with this decision of yours to freeze for one year because it will encourage the withdrawal of the savings, will also encourage the withdrawal of the savings incentives when the five-year deadline is over. And we also know that some of the savings were purposelessly spent on funds. Let us also take action against this. And we know which ones, I won't speak publicly here so I don't get them in trouble, but I have to take them against them. No, they pay themselves big bonuses, they pay big wages, they enjoy Mercedes, they drive around, they act big managers, and the state pays off. Let's do something against them. And we know who they are and what they did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56195	And Mladen Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56196	Thank you very much. I have to admit, my colleagues took away practically saying what I was going to say. The amendment certainly cannot be resolved because it is, to be honest, that the amendment to only one article is really this one article we have nothing to put the amendment on. But this says enough about what we really want. We can't say by changing an article that we're dealing with this problem. No, we don't know how to spit in the sea and wait for the water to rise, to rise. That's not it. What we represent because some whole solution when it comes to this problem and this is exactly what counterpart Maric said what I was going to say if anyone asked the citizens if they wanted VAT from 23% to 25%? No one asked them. And now there's no talking to the savings, no talking to the banks. It's a difficult conversation. These are the laws they have to do business under. It can't be done by anyone else for you who's there for it. And for one more reason, I actually ended up reporting when you announced the talks, further conversations with the bankers. I'm afraid, and I can't get the impression especially after this morning's opening part that the bankers are, unfortunately, and this time I don't know which way, I don't know what they've done with what they wanted. I'd like you to convince me to convince us that even on that previous law I'm primarily talking about him that it won't be just what we've accomplished a lot and ultimately no result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56197	Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56198	I accept that there can be no amendment, and we need to discuss that opinion in this House is to change the way we behave. The incentive to build an adaptation and we will change and then you will see the pressure that will have both banks and savings on all of you, and I will have enough of this debate, quite enough. In a month's time, you'll have your changes, and you'll be convinced by the basis of this debate. The message is very clear in the House is believed to be unintendedly we must stop. If they fail, if the good part of them will shut down their business because you are convinced more than 50,000 savings will not be, now there are 400 thousand. We'll all solve the problem and it'll be a proposal to solve this temporary solution at the moment. We'll give the new law the basis of this debate. That's enough for us. We know that you are against non-intentional spending and that you are not falling for stories that we are encouraging to finance jobs in savings, is unfortunately our large Institute of Public Finance thinking that jobs should be financed because this brings revenue to the state budget. As for the relationship with the bankers, there is always a basic question, we can all decide. In front of you, the current solution that we have offered without agreement with the banks is aware that it is always the risk of judicial conflicts with banks, though we are entering the contracts that the citizens have signed, and we are trying to say we have to change whether they were inferior in that, that is the opinion of the authorities. And if we make a deal with them, then we're sure there won't be any problems with the courts. It's a risk we have as suggested but so will you who will plead it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56199	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Nadica Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56200	Honorable vice presidents, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. This law proposes temporary freezing of state incentives to housing savings in 2014. What are the arguments for this proposal? The first and most important thing is that housing savings are dedicated savings, and the fact is that loans are used by only 27% of savings, and 73% are passive savings, so those who have no intention of using credit for residential needs. Under the excessive deficit procedure, Croatia simply cannot afford to waste budgets without purpose, not 10 million, not 100 million or 200 million kuna. This team is mentioned in the poverty zone by fellow laborists, so there are millions of citizens in Croatia and it is not acceptable to encourage someone who is able to save even if there are symbolic amounts on the burden of those who do not have basic existential needs. By suspending the payment of the incentives in 2014 in 2015, about 130 million kuna would be saved in the state register. So far, the state has paid more than 2 billion kuna in savings through incentives while the savings have simultaneously placed 5.6 billion kunas. In practice, the state has provided through more than a third of the savings potential for loans, which suggests an extremely high dependence on the credit potential of housing savings banks on state incentives. The share of loans paid by housing savings in total housing loans is only 5.5%, which is in favour of the claim that the system has not met the purpose. The ratio of loans and deposits in the housing system is also 54%, which points to the conclusion that savings are used primarily for savings, which is precisely due to government incentives more favourable than savings in commercial banks, and they do not use it for what is its primary purpose, which is to solve housing problems. For the time being, Croatia is the first and only country that temporarily abolishs the state incentive of housing savings, I stress temporarily, it is a temporary measure, with this moratorium being used for a quality and complete analysis of the current model of housing savings and proposing a better model of a compromise solution for both citizens and the state. The basis for these improvements is the following arguments, there are currently about 750 thousand people in the housing savings system in Croatia, which is only slightly less than the total number of real sector employees, so in the economy, therefore one respectable figure. The largest advantage for housing savings under these variable market conditions is certainly the possibility of using housing loans under conditions far more favourable than marketable at a fixed interest rate throughout the payment period. So at the end of 2012, the average interest rate on housing loans in banks was 5.6% while the housing savings were fixed at 5.3%. True, it is the state incentives that allow housing savings to transform variable interest on housing loans into fixed ones. And that's why residents of housing credits have unchanged wars for 11 years, while those who have been raising loans in Swiss francs are now at a higher rate of 60 percent and 70 percent. All housing savings in 2012 recorded profits before tax, all housing savings are stable and highly capitalised compared to banks they are less exposed to risks. And one of the biggest problems right now in the banking sector is bad, so it's either uncharging or hard-to-charge loans and it's almost 14% as we know it is. Unlike that, the share of bad loans in housing has never crossed 1%. Maybe that's the fact that savings are less risky than banks is a kind of argument that savings reduce regulatory costs. First of all, the risk premium paid to DAB could also result in a reduction, i.e. by an additional reduction in interest rates on loans. All of this I've listed goes in favor of housing savings but there remains a notorious fact that the current model of housing savings is not intended and not fair. In my opinion, the important question is why the savings allowed not to purposely spend all these years' funds, which is characterised by greater or less for all the savings that are based on large banking systems. The exception is the savings bank of Wustenrot, which is the only one behind it that has no bank. It's with housing loans, it's indicatively placed and placed around 90% of the funds collected. Therefore, the purpose of spending on state-owned housing savings is a fundamental problem. What are the possible solutions? Perhaps one of the legal solutions would be to determine the lower limit of mandatory place of savings deposits in housing loans. So for a little while I said that Wustenrot places 90% of the savings, in other savings, that percentage is incomparably lower. Perhaps state incentives should be paid at the time of housing lending and cumulatively for all years of savings and not during savings as it seems now, so the state would be sure to encourage exactly residential construction rather than non-intentional consumption. So, who would save up the order of housing that would get the incentive and who wouldn't get the incentive. When it comes to this problem, one more Croatian specificity should be pointed out, namely, Croatian citizens invested their savings most in real estate and therefore Croatian citizens have significantly more property owned on the European average. In contrast to us, in the European Union, apartments were bought and houses were built only by the richest and the largest number of citizens live in rented apartments, of course there is mostly a market for rents organised rather than for us. In Croatia, we currently have a surplus living space, so we have about 30% more housing units than the family, and in these housing units huge money has been immobilized, so huge Croatian accumulation. And I'll say it's actually a modern Croatian obrovec. All the arguments have been made in advance for a significant turn in national housing policy. It is up to the government to define the entire housing policy, and therefore it needs to be given time and space to provide a comprehensive analysis to determine what is a rational solution for Croatian citizens. Is all-life borrowing to solve a roof problem with very risky conditions? Is this renting an apartment with respect to social criteria, or is that a third solution? In any case, housing policy must respect the social component. In this context, the possibilities for further development of the housing savings system should also be considered. So I'm going to list some of the potential options. First of all, the use of housing savings to improve the quality of housing. One option is to finance an increase in energy efficiency of residential buildings through the housing system. Current estimates suggest that to improve housing conditions, or to move to a higher energy class per household, it takes between 6.5 and 10,000 euros, which is a really large amount that is difficult to secure without credit. And the interest of citizens in energy improvement of housing conditions is high. Another potential area for lending is the legalization of construction. Citizens are interested in housing savings covering legalisation costs which, for the time being, I cannot. So, all that I said, what I said would be good in the next year of this moratorium that we have provided with this bill, so it would all be good to analyse, communicate, as the minister says, and bring one quality solution. So this legal proposal is a temporary solution, it would be good to show good faith both by the banking system and by the savings bank and really get a better quality law afterwards. The SDP will support this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56201	Ada Damian, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56202	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Jelash, all this stuff you mentioned is true. With the fact that I think you skipped another fact, that is, the fact that no one has said anything about today. In fact, housing savings in one part of the citizens were also literally imposed by business banks while raising consumer credits. And she was a bank fuse if the committee didn't repay the loan to the end. And by paying off that consumer loan, the client was getting normal incentive savings at a normal rate of the greater interest than that of his money and arming. So that's another fact that our banks did. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56203	The answer to Nadica Jelash's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56204	Yes, colleague Damian, you're absolutely right. I, in my presentation, pointed out that individual savings, mostly of them 6, 5, other than Wustenrot, which are based on large banking systems, were actually given a large part of the savings to their banks to queens and were used by banks for commercial purposes. So you're absolutely right and it's exactly our argument why this housing savings model should be changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56205	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Zeljko Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56206	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Before us in 2013 is the second emergency intervention at the Institute of Housing Savings. After reducing the amount of state incentives from 750 to 500 kuna in January this year, the addition of the law now proposes to abolish those 500 kuna savings incentives collected in 2014. And in January, and even now, I think it is not fair or encouraging for that kind of savings to change the essential elements, that is, what the savings people have signed in their housing savings contracts. Such incursions to the housing system remind an overwhelming reminder of the fates of many citizens who have raised loans in Switzerland. That's where they got the increase in credit payouts, where they ran out of contracted funds. Now for the second time in residential savings, the rules of the contract were changed during the year, with retroactive application of contracts signed a few years ago, which is not correct according to the savings. However, I must admit that, with the help of an increase in contracts, I found a clause in smaller letters, the amount of DPS can be changed on the basis of laws or other sublegal acts throughout the duration of the contract. However, it also states in the contract that the Ministry of Finance is required, subject to compliance with the requirements submitted by housing savings banks for the payment of the DPS for the previous year, to pay the savings to state incentives for a period of 60 days from the date of application. There are still no DPS payments in the savings accounts for 2012, according to savings, it will be in January. All this creates one legal uncertainty and mistrust in the financial system, as well as in the kind of savings that all goes to the expense of savings, but nothing less to the expense of the savings bank and the state itself. This supplement of the law may apply to all contracts which will be signed in 2014 but not to those signed one, two or three years ago. I understand the problems and the gaps in the state budget, that every kuna is important in order to save, but it is also a measure that has brought down something that has worked very well for 12 years. To assume that this supplement of the budget law will have little benefit, and for the Institute of Housing Savings great damage. With their concept of housing savings, they developed a savings culture that is still low in Croatia compared to other countries in the region. Small monthly savings in 5 years create credit potential for crediting residential construction, less house or apartment adaptations. In addition to significant benefits for citizens, it is important that the state has benefited more from the paid state incentives. The direct benefit for the State was the VAT revenue for the purchased material, from real estate, tax and contribution of the employees in housing savings, and strict control of the purpose of credit spending was directly prevented by the grey economy. A multi-annual analysis shows that 2 kunas were returned to the budget for one kuna. The indirect benefit also concerned the protection of the social standard of citizens, especially pensioners who could save something for some minor adaptation of the apartment, house or savings for grandchildren. Also fixed interest rates in the conditions of an unstable financial market were stabilisers in the control of bank interest rate developments. Housing savings do not require external borrowing because all funding for housing needs is collected from the savings of citizens. The balance assessment indicates a 54% credit and deposit ratio indicating, according to the applicant, that the savings use this system primarily for more favourable savings, that they later use it unintendedly in everything else, and at least for the purpose of resolving the housing issue. This average is such that one savings bank is not active in credit approval, while three savings have a ratio greater than 60% and one even more than 80%. And what is very important, in its essence, is this concept of housing savings and fixed lower interest rates is not that each savings raises credit because the 1:1 ratio is impossible, but that the three saves, and only the fourth client raises credit. I know from my personal 10-year experience as well as other pensioners that some savings don't have the need to raise loans but are saving up in five years so that in five years we can perform a smaller investment procedure, for example to change the roof, put on an external facade, a plastic carpentry, which is practically an energy efficiency effect which individually doesn't cost more than 30 thousand kuna saved. And in such minor procedures, no credit needs to be raised, and the money has been spent for residential purposes and there is no data in it. In these years, this system of savings will be devastated, and it can now be said that this savings will no longer be more favourable than the bank's disarmament because today, a bank that pays up to 5% interest can still be found. The assessment stresses that the number of residential units in the Republic of Croatia exceeds 30% of the number of families. The number of 20 thousand unsold apartments in Croatia also contributes. If there is no reason to encourage further housing, then it would be fair for the savings to tell us to abolish housing savings and end this agony of easy dying, leaving the citizens at the mercy of foreign banks and their variable interest. There are five housing savings in Croatia, one independent, four operating as foreign banks. Surely these banks are not in the interest of developing housing savings because it is not profitable to give them loans with a fixed interest rate of 5.5%, profit is too small. The savings in Croatia are not a great competition for banks, but they are a thorn in their eye because they show that even with smaller interest you can normally do business. However, these moves to reduce or abolish state incentives will result in less interest in the savings, fewer contracts, lower volume of business and come to a cost-effectiveness limit for the independent business of housing savings. Experience in some countries of the region shows that housing savings can be a better choice in lending housing needs to banks. So in Slovakia, 60% of housing loans come from the savings facility. This application of the law proposed creates legal uncertainty for citizens because the rights of previously concluded contracts will not be realised and savings will be damaged. Of course, the state has the right to decide how much, when and to whom it encourages, even if all of this will eventually result in the closure of housing savings. And the question is, how do you protect the savings? The suspension of State incentives in 2014 retroactively affects already concluded contracts and savings rights under these contracts. According to Article 26 of the Savings, it has the right to terminate a housing savings contract because of the failure to fulfil the legal or contractual obligations of the Housing Savings Bank and is entitled to state incentives along with the corresponding interest. This act of exit saves with current savings and incentives can significantly destabilise the overall work of the savings banks themselves, savings outflows and the loan payment plan. Therefore, this small but very significant amendment of the law can determine the fate of housing savings and its savings. The effect of this change on the state budget will be only in 2015 but the reduction of incentives and suspensions of certain rights under the housing contract ultimately leads to closure. As a result, Croatian party representatives will vote according to their conscience and I personally cannot support such an amendment of the law because I believe that the damage and can be twice the benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56207	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56208	Dear colleague, the intrusion into the system cannot be called an amendment to the law passed by the Croatian Parliament. Breaking into the system is not an amendment to the law, and especially what you said yourself that in the housing contract clauses it clearly states that the law will also determine the height of the incentive. So he can be bigger, smaller, or he can't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56209	The answer to the line, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56210	So I think a colleague of whatever they call this is a big change for all the savings and for a large number of savings. And we all here in all these discussions think he's wrong, it's impossible for every savings to take credit. Also, suggestions that those who are saving do not take credit to release these incentives then it is also a practical interruption of housing savings because the 3% interest is certainly not stimulating for any savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56211	Igor Radjenović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56212	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Schamper, you're already the third speaker on behalf of the club and all the clubs that didn't support this proposal, which criticises the minister, which will only be achieved in 2015, 16th etc. So I must admit that I least expected from the representatives of the Croatian party of pensioners that otherwise the Minister of Finance did not commend what he was thinking in the long term and not just from year to year that we would make it through the next few months without thinking about what would happen with the budget of sixteenth and seventeenth. I think it's quite a contrast, and that's how I answer to your predecessors. The second is the same as the president of the Croatian Retirement Party, I was talking about the deficit. So our deficit is 15, 20 billion. 18 billion is a deficit in the pension system. Right? 18 billion. All of us citizens, including pensioners, are giving up a billion and a half every month, each month a billion and a half to fill that and that deficit. Therefore, any savings, including this savings, can and must help pensioners receive their pensions in time. This government has repeatedly said the last line of defence will be the line of defence for pensions and pensions in the current status. So we need to think about it. So we can't be against every savings. Let's see what's creative. Here's the minister announced about the proposal and the new law to see, we might stop at a model that also the government, the left government in 2000 to 2003 inauguration when we had real tax reliefs on housing savings, i.e. the subsidisation of residential loans, thus on pension insurance, which led to pension reform, on health services, etc. These were effects that were hundreds of percent benefiting. I don't know, like this, if only 15% or 20% of the savings end up in housing savings isn't good. That would be anyone I don't know subsidizing fake disability pensions because I believe you wouldn't agree with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56213	Replication response, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56214	So in all the discussions, the thing that bothers me the most is that there's no record of how many people who aren't, those savings that haven't taken up credit, but they've spent it on a variety of adaptations. This specifically applies to pensioners. I've used such things for 10 years and I know many of them who've been thinking for three years, four I have to change the roof and practically purposeful savings and when he gets that savings he's spent on it. And we also need to see how profitable it is in the countries of the region as regards here, say Slovakia and the other countries that were mentioned today. So let's see what their experiences are, so let's see why we don't apply that system. And what you said about pensions, I don't think we should discuss it because we know what our pensions are, and all those pensioners who built this country of Croatia and the infrastructure in their cities deserve it. Therefore, they are still miserable and I don't think we should discuss this much in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56215	Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56216	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I see some clubs are in favour of unintentional spending of funds. I can only say that. The stake in the housing savings, living with incentives, is to get credit and use it. So why are you waiting five years to run out of time to get a boost and then go and edit the bathroom, the roof. Why don't you take the savings after three years, take the credit, pay off the loan before, because you probably need to fix the roof? Therefore, it is not a problem to repair the roof, the problem is that you did not take credit, that you did not use the money given to you by taxpayers and that it is you who are taking the money for something you have no right to. Because the other citizens who don't save in that savings locker are repairing the roofs without incentive. And on the other hand, you're asking me why it's an inefficient system? Well, you admire that we have well-organized savings, that we have responsible people. Four of them are tied to banks. Then explain to me why the banks pushed Swiss as an extraordinary product? The Swiss man was pushed! Why didn't they stick all their committees into the savings? The ones where they run, why didn't they push them there? Why didn't they push them into savings? Why didn't they give them support and then build through the savings? Yes, their founders, the Croatian state is not their founder, are those who should have said gentlemen it is the best way of saving, you will get support. Believe me, not even Minister Schuker would cut back, and we wouldn't be reducing support in January if we had all the Swiss in our housing savings instead. But banks don't think, they don't think so. They pushed their products, they pushed their profits, and they didn't care about housing savings. So, what do we want now? That the state is also engaged in the management of housing savings? Because there's a basic problem, did the housing savings play their part? No, they're not. 5% of the credit goes through housing savings. What's the fault of the state now? She had an enormous incentive, we cut it twice, twice. We did not cut it because it seems good to us, no, but the founders of the savings bank did not push this product towards the citizens of Croatia. Because if they'd pushed him they'd have fixed rates, they'd have kuna loans, they'd have a decent profit but they wouldn't have extra profits. Therefore, the founders of these banks did not play the role. With all the support of the state, in the last 15 years we've been giving, 15 years, 2 billion kunas from the budget. Why isn't that the strongest product? So ask the founder how you can say that the savings are well organized? No, they're not. Their founders don't push that product, they don't push, they don't want this product to want direct plasma, they want direct incentives. And now it's the state's fault again, again it's some government's fault. Well, no, we're just saying we didn't make it. The founders didn't come here to make it the best product, they didn't come. And then finally what do we see? Banks take over the role of lending, very difficult conditions always with the currency clause, always. And at the same time, money goes unintentional. That is why we are concerned and why we estimate that this is an unacceptable way of financing. He didn't give his part. Money thrown away again, thrown away and thrown away. And try to figure out if you didn't take the loan you didn't purposely use the incentive. You don't have to wait 5 years, after 2 years take credit, take incentives and build and pay off loans because you don't need a new apartment, you need a roof. Therefore, that is the basic problem. And now it's our fault that the savings don't work. Because after 15 years of support from the state budget, after 2 billion, I don't know if anyone understands what 2 billion is, it turns out to be the worst product of banking, the worst. Why the worst? Fifty thousand citizens took credit, I apologize for 28 thousand credits. Only 28 in 15 years. It's something that's unacceptable. We haven't achieved the effects we want, and now the governments are suddenly guilty. Well, I can't be the wrong government, I can't. They're not founders, they don't run those jobs. And that's something we've been trying to say all night and, of course, there's no talking, they don't want to talk. But the Institute of Public Finance didn't write that problem if we purposely spent 2 billion kunas. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56217	Fine, but it's worth listening to the minister. Zeljko Schamper, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56218	So this is how it saves 5 years because it's some sort of orientation figure where for 30 thousand kuna, they can do these procedures at their houses or in their apartment. And then it looks like the wrong concept of complete housing savings is because it's neither possible nor in the concept that 400 thousand saves to raise all 400 thousand credits. Because there's no such thing as funds. And the savings bank says that three savings can raise a loan, not all 400,000 savings can raise a loan, there's no such fund. And we need to see what happens in our neighbouring countries that have 60% stakes in housing savings and loans, and we have 5%. So we see these other experiences, so if someone did something smarter, then we adapt that law to all our stable savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56219	On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56220	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So much is said today about the banking system and, of course, housing savings, so on behalf of the HNS Club, I will highlight a few data that are not spoken, which is the structure of housing incomes dominated by net interest incomes on average 66.8%, and the largest share refers to revenues from the public sector on average 61% as a result of the investment of surplus liquidity in state securities i.e. The savings bank invests in securities and does not invest or stimulate lending. And it is also one of the elements that is important in deciding how to work a savings bank or on a proposal to amend and supplement this law. Also, the unannounced savings account for an average of 33.2% of total business income from the draft savings facility to today. It's about 28% today, which means in translation it's not with all those other savings figures that don't do the job that makes it real. That basic job is basically for lending, to achieve housing care and improvement of housing quality. Also, 38 thousand loans have been paid over housing savings over the past 11 years, currently active 31 thousand, and in 2012 alone, 2,000 and 39 loans went from housing savings, and we are talking about 730 thousand savings, and about 450 I think it has the right to encourage housing savings. Which means that 60% of housing savings use incentives, and 40% does not use them, and that means that they will not compromise housing savings with this law but is only one basis for further discussion and meeting banks and housing savings, offering them these solutions that you spoke about for incentives again offer incentives but when used for adaptation, reconstruction, purchase of a new facility. And just as it is already said, but I will stress the approval of loans to citizens through housing savings to finance the legalisation of housing facilities, means new law or new amendments and additions, possibly and possibly possible, would be good, especially because of a new law that goes towards energy efficiency not only legal but also natural persons, means the approval of loans to building managers and natural persons for the financing of joint parts of residential buildings, reconstruction, energy efficiency, and it would be good to consider and probably also in public debate when this proposal opens up new on housing savings and define the balance between deposits and loans per housing savings, destimulate investment in bonds, do we know that bonds today are very interesting and valuable for all to buy them. And who, for example. does not invest more than 50% in lending the rest of the funds not to be placed in securities but to deposit either in the CNB or the Ministry of Finance, or it does not matter now in an institution in which it will not then benefit but will have the incentive to deal with what the housing savings are for, and the citizens will certainly be very happy to recognise it when they are promoted to take loans in residential savings, as they were promoted to take loans in the way it was done when loans were taken in Swiss francs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56221	Ada Damian replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56222	I thank the esteemed vice president. My colleague Gjurkovic, I hope I did not hear your proposal to use encouraging housing to legalise the facilities. I mean, if I understood correctly, then I don't know where we're going because first all those who were building illegally were building against those who were collecting permits, paying for everything they needed, and we still need to encourage them through encouraging housing, so that they still have some other privileges. I hope I got it all wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56223	Reply to the replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56224	Dear colleagues, I think I don't see any reason why the legalization of objects as well as certain infrastructures around the facilities would not be used by energy efficiency through housing savings. Of course, the public debate of the possible draft amendments to the law will define whether we need additional incentives from the state to take credit for legalisation through a housing savings facility, but the use of funds from a housing savings facility to legalise why not in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56225	And on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Igor Čeek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56226	I thank the esteemed vice president. Honorable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I must commend the minister who defends this law all day, I think he did it on his birthday and is indeed one of the few ministers from this government who have the patience to spend the whole day with us in this assembly. But with this bill of law, what to say, or to whom to send a message? Living savings or housing savings? I don't know. I think we're sending a message to each other. This law has been in force since 1998 and has experienced a few changes, i.e. since the times when incentives, i.e. state incentives, amounted to 25%, and to 15%, in order to drop to 10 this year, we have a bill that will abolish state incentives. Today, the law says that these incentives will be abolished for a year, probably next year we will have a proposal for a law on the permanent abolition of state incentives. I consider it to be a debate, but I also think this idea is not a good idea. It's not good. However, the minister also speaks in his explanation of the saturation of the real estate market and of the large number of unsold apartments in the Republic of Croatia. What, though, affects this large number of unsold apartments? Well certainly the 350 thousand unemployed, certainly the 270 thousand citizens who are in the blockade, surely that army of young people who are unemployed. Well, they wouldn't want to live under a parent's roof, they'd want to have their own roof over their heads. However, can these young people be offered housing savings? We have seen from some analysis that 750 thousand users have savings in housing savings and the average savings is 3800 kuna per year. I don't think that's a big amount, so it's obvious that housing savings don't meet their basic purpose. The rise in housing credit and the purchase of real estate is more stimulating than it is because of state incentives. However, we in the HDSSB believe that the payment of incentives should only go towards housing savings that use this savings to purchase real estate, i.e. to raise housing credit or to adapt existing real estate. Today, there's been a lot of talk about it, and I think a bill like this would go in the right direction. So, the one who saves when he raises a housing loan has the right to pay off state incentives. I think everyone in the Parliament should agree on that. Minister, I hope you'll think about it. Because the law should serve citizens, that's the meaning of a fair, fair state, not a large capital. Because of a series of unfavourable citizens' laws today, we have 350 thousand unemployed and 200,000 citizens in the blockade. What can the government do? Loud and clear to the banks, there's been a lot of interest in our citizens. How can she say that? The laws of course. Because as the banks have already been said many times in their home countries today, they record losses while miracles in rich Croatia are doing business with profits. Who's to blame? Of course we did because we let them do it. That is why the HDSB Club will be abstention in voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56227	Hansel Mandic, replica, at the last minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56228	Here's the last minute. Well, here's the thing, even though it's too late, I think it's been visible both from the intentions and the proposings and most of the debates of colleagues that no one is against encouraging housing savings. But most of the clubs and most speakers agreed that they were not to encourage speculative housing savings and... a colleague ended up well that it was necessary to control what is real or buying or real housing savings that should be stimulated and I think this whole debate is on track to go into the preparation of the amendments to the law to define it legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56229	Replication response, Igor Czech.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56230	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Mandic, this is not a reply to the replica, but here's an agreement with you because I still think that if someone saves and uses that savings just to achieve state incentives that it's wrong. The state here spends certain finances, financial resources and the only right path would be that after the savings run out, if you raise a housing loan or a credit for adaptation that the state pays you the incentive funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56231	End of the line, Slavko Linic, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56232	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here's my thanks for the constructive debate. I must say, as far as our Ministry of Finance is concerned, you have solved our problem because this proposal, which says that we are not proposing payment for 2014, has been a sufficient period of time for us to reopen the debate. After today's debate, I doubt that the debate will significantly move away or be of interest to the bill. You can really expect right away from the beginning of next year a very clear bill in which we will make it clear in 2014 is paid only after the use of the loan and cumulatively. Five years if you save, all five years at once, it'll be our proposal, and yet I think we'll put a fence on. The return of funds not after 5 years, maybe after 15 years, so that means there won't be a payment of savings incentives. We don't accept that we're giving money to save because it wasn't the function of this. And I also see that there have been useful suggestions on what savings funds are being invested in. It'll all be content or addition or a whole new law. I'm telling you right now why I don't believe there's gonna be a lot of communication, these are suggestions that the savings don't want to talk about, but these are the suggestions that we've received now in the debate of all of you who, well, want to keep our housing savings, to make housing savings a better product than the banks have. Whether the savings accept it or not, we'll see their reaction after this proposal. So, huge gratitude on my part, I think that these years that we've been given with this proposal is too long for us and in the first quarter you'll get a bill of law that will very clearly express the battle for citizens who want to save and use credits for adaptations and everything else. Although that's where I agree with Mr Gjurkovic for legalization. We have to understand, we have passed the Law on Legalization, we have passed it, and that means various failures of individuals, irresponsible behavior of individuals we have legalized with our law. And what does that mean? That means we're interested in ending this story overnight, in a year, not stalling it for years. Therefore, each kuna is used to solve housing problems, even legalization. Try to understand, our law has told us to encourage anyone who has sinned to correct a mistake as soon as possible. It means wherever we can, but only in apartments, only in apartments. So, all these proposals, thank you very much, we'll see the bill in the first quarter. I'm afraid many will close their savings doors, not come interested in pushing this product to our citizens. We will give them an opportunity and it will be a solution based on the debate in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56233	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56234	Final draft law supplementing the House Savings Act and the State Encouragement of Housing Savings, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 495. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by representative Zlatko Tušak and the Croatian Democratic Community club. Please, here he is, deputy finance minister respected Boris Lalovec. Let's get this straight. Representative Zlatko Tušak, Amendment number one to Article one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56235	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56236	No, I don't. Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56237	Explanation. In yesterday's debate, the minister made it clear that this is a temporary measure, and from your discussions, it was urged that in the first quarter of 2014, the government would move again to amend the proposal in such a way that it would be complemented, that this savings that would actually be paid would be intended, so that in this respect and in this part, we cannot accept it. But we announce that in the beginning of next year, we will consider in agreement with the savings and also on your proposals to actually reshape the purposeal use of savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56238	Dear Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56239	Thank you very much, President. I am not satisfied with the answer because the proposed law abolishes state incentives in 2014 to a large number of savings in housing savings. My amendment would not remove those funds but would make it possible to extend the payment of those funds within a year, and in that period there could be a quality solution to the issue of use of funds and therefore I see no reason not to reject the amendment and therefore ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56240	I would like to make a statement on amendment number one of the respected representatives of Zlatko Tušak, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. An amendment to the HDZ MP club, a respected deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56241	The amendment is not accepted for the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56242	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club in the Croatian Parliament, respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, in the 2013 budget, were paid to stimulate socio-incentive housing for 2011. This law proposes as one of the government's measures to reduce expenditure in the coming period that these incentives are not paid in 2014. As a consequence, the 2014 budget will pay off incentives for 2012, in 2015. Therefore, the effect of fiscally these proposed measures is only 2016. However, such a bill will certainly cause great damage first of all that many people will simply give up living savings because of uncertainty and because of the government’s rules that often retroactively change regulations. The collapse of any housing savings facility is several hundred million funds that will have to be paid off by DAB. And I therefore believe that if the Government had already proposed a measure to reduce spending in the 2014 budget, it should have done so in a way that it would do so for 2014 rather than with some regulation that does not mean anything fiscally in 2014 and 2015, but it can cause great damage to the budget and therefore I ask Mr. President to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56244	I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the HDZ Representatives' Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. By raising our hands, may we please state who's in favor? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that the majority of the votes are 81 votes for and 35 votes against the Act on the Completion of the House Savings Act and the state incentive of housing savings in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56245	And now we will discuss - The proposal for a decision to set up a Committee for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child is proposed by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply when making a decision. The decision will be explained by the Vice-President of the Committee Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56246	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Based on the Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child and, of course, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee for Family, Youth and Sports proposes this decision to set up a Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. So it's an annual prize that's actually given both the annual prize and the prize for life's work. When we look at the annual prize, it is given to individuals or groups of individuals if this is the result of his joint work and for the most significant achievements achieved in the work on promoting the rights of the child, then for the achievements that have been published and presented over the past year, and for those who enjoy the reputation, role models and workers. These annual awards are given in the form of charters and money, with the exception of the annual prize, the prize for life's work is also given. It is awarded to prominent individuals whose work represents a lasting contribution to promoting the rights of the child for the purpose of the full and coherent development of the personality of the child, to those who have contributed to the protection of the rights of the child and to the interests of the child for a long period of time during the professional career and voluntary participation in associations engaged in the rights and interests of children, to those who have marked the time in which they acted and whose actions and achievements remain permanently well in the Republic of Croatia and those who mark the public recognition and recognition of their success and achievement of lasting value. You know that Croatia is a signator of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and, of course, with respect to the physical and mental maturity of children because in growth and development, the need to highlight the child's special rights, the right to protection, is in fact the basis from which the Convention on the Rights of the Child is based. Unlike the Declaration that has moral power, we must also point out here that it is the convention that is a legal act and has the power of law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law stipulates that the award is just awarded by the Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. The committee appoints a Croatian Parliament in time of two years. The Committee makes five people, these are well-known public workers who deal with child rights issues. The mandate of the previous committee has expired, the board is actually elected for two years. This is why the Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child for the next two years in the following composition: Ksenija Mandarić, founder and president of the Association for the Promotion of Creative Expression of Children, Youth and Adults Kolajna Tribunj, is then Mrs Ivanka Roksandić, our colleague, professor, parliamentary representative, holder of the Croatian Order with the character Ante Starčević to contribute to education and education. It is also our colleague Dunja Špoljar, a parliamentary representative, a teacher who has spent her entire life working on children and is currently writing a doctorate on the subject of children. Then this is Mrs. Annie Modrušan, the Mayor of Labina, Mrs. Višnja Fortuna, our colleague of Parliament's representative, a graduate social worker, a Master of Social Psychology and Sociopathology. Here's a respected colleague and colleague of mine. It's a proposal from the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56247	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Tomorrow we'll get to the bottom of this decision. My colleagues and colleagues, tomorrow we will discuss the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons, educational institutions for 2011 and the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, etc. for 2012. We'll start at 9.30 and at 12:00 we'll vote from last week on what we discussed this week. Goodbye! See you in the morning!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-07-0.u56248	Proposal for a decision establishing a Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. The decision is proposed by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. The debate on the proposal is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please state by raising your hand who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that, unanimously, 116 votes for a decision on the establishment of a Committee on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child are in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
