ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38081	My colleagues and colleagues, we will begin today's work. First of all, we will discuss - Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Veterinary Medicinal Products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 309. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38082	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. We have before us the Law on Veterinary Medicinal Products which regulates the procedures of testing and placing on the market of production, marking... This is a set of activities relating to the detection, collection of data, assessment of understanding, prevention and handling of veterinary medicinal products by side as well as new knowledge of the harmfulness of the use of veterinary medicinal products. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Further quality control and advertising of veterinary medicinal products in order to ensure their quality, safety and efficacy as animal health products, and thus to protect human health from... veterinary medicinal products in food of animal origin and feed for animals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And under two, placing on the market accessories and other veterinary products. The subject-matter of the law is in line with Directive 2001/82/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on a Community code relating to veterinary medicinal products which are not initially adequately harmonised. During the closure of Chapter 1 of the freedom of movement of goods for the purpose of implementing the acquis in the field of veterinary medicinal products, commitments have been made which lead to a continuous increase in the volume of business in that area requiring specific knowledge and expertise, which, due to the lack of administrative capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture as a competent authority, is not able to carry out fully on its own in due time. For those reasons, this proposal for a law on the work of drawing up a report on veterinary medicinal products produced in the process of assembling veterinary medicinal products on the market is also proposed the possibility of entrusting the legal person who fulfils the conditions laid down in the proposal for this law. This ensures full implementation of operations in the process of assembling veterinary medicinal products on the market, and timely enforcement of those tasks within 210 days in accordance with Directive 2001/82. Furthermore, the possibility of entrusting pharmacovigilance to a legal person who fulfils the draft law lays down the conditions for all to carry out pharmacovigilance activities in accordance with Directive 2001/82. In addition to the most important issues covered by this proposal, the laws are, or complemented, the concepts which are not covered, or harmonised so far. This is a definition of the European Medicines Agency, immunological veterinary medicinal products, by-products and clarifications related to veterinary medicinal products. All the criteria for the withdrawal, or modification of the authorisation for placing veterinary medicinal products on the market, and for increasing and withdrawing veterinary medicinal products from the market, shall be supplemented by the provisions concerning the authorisation of placing veterinary medicinal products on the market according to the decentralised procedure and the procedure for mutual recognition which determines the ability of the competent authority to act before the Committee on Veterinary Medicinal Products which is composed of a representative of the Member States and determines all the reasons for the urgent withdrawal of veterinary medicinal products from the market by the competent authority in the event of suspicion of non-quality, harmfulness or ineffectiveness of those products. The proposed law prescribes the originally omitted provisions which are necessary to regulate, which are the conditions for the temporary prohibition of the operation of veterinary medicinal products, i.e. the suspension of authorisations issued to veterinary medicinal products that have been established for wholesale sale only so far, the obligation to notify the competent authority of any change in relation to the authorisation granted for the marketing of veterinary medicinal products on a large or small scale, and the principles of good practice in the transport of veterinary medicinal products in accordance with which they are obliged to handle wholesale and veterinary medicinal products prior to placing on the market for the quality of the same products. And under three, clearer and more precise are regulated provisions on supplies and other products for use in the veterinary medicinal product. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of money in the state budget, additional cash in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. And with this bill of law, we are fully in line with EU legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38083	I thank the ministers. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ Club will speak Đurđica Sumrak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38084	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. Today, we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Veterinary Medicinal Products with the final proposal for a law. The assembly isn't very full, but believe me, this proposal is a alignment. Until the end, we agreed with the EU. I would like to say first, what makes it important and how much it affects our lives, that is, the lives and health of animals, but also primarily human. According to the Law on Veterinary Medicinal Products, the veterinary medicinal product or the identification of a veterinary medicinal product is any substance or mixture of substances that has the property of the treatment or prevention of animal diseases or any substance or mixture of substances that can be used on animals for the purpose of restoring, correcting or adapting physiological functions to pharmacological, immunological or metabolic activity or the setting of a medical diagnosis and the means for reducing microorganisms for use in veterinary medicine. This law also applies to industrially produced premixes for the production of medicinal products for animals, but also to active substances used for the production of anabolic, anti-infectious, anti-parasitarian, anti-inflammatory, hormonal or psychotropic properties. Each VMP must have a marketing authorisation, i.e. it must comply with the requirements laid down in this law. It's the 2008 law. The VMP which has the approval guarantees a safe and effective application which confirms the manufacturer's documentation. The VMP documentation includes research, production, quality control, safety and efficiency. According to World Health Organization definition, counterfeit drugs are the original or generic drugs deliberately falsely marked, false identity and origin. Just a few sentences, I'll say something about these counterfeit drugs. Data on counterfeit drugs are slow and difficult to reach the competent authorities, and it is understandable that these occurrences are relatively rarely officially registered. The most frequently reported side effects resulting from the use of a counterfeit medicinal product are reported. In recent years, however, more and more such medicines have been revealed on the European but also on the world market. According to the report, about 10% of medicines on the market are assumed to be counterfeit. Forged drugs are sometimes cheaper than legally placed on the market because they are not manufactured or controlled in accordance with the rules. But to be a more convincing counterfeiter, there is often an equal or slightly lower price for such drugs than legally manufactured drugs. Although the most counterfeit medicinal products for human use have been most counterfeited in recent years, the number of counterfeit veterinary medicinal products has been increased. However, the prevention of this phenomenon is carried out with the same methods for both human and veterinary medicinal products. According to the European Commission report, there was an increase in falsified medicinal products for human use by 384% compared to the previous period in industrially developed countries. For example, in 2007, most of the drugs for the treatment of infections, heart disease, CNS diseases, gastrointestinal, urogenital and other diseases were forged. In addition to those frequently represented counterfeit drugs in industrially developed countries, they were those used to treat cancer, obesity and corticosteroids. In developing countries, there were the most counterfeit anti-malaria, tuberculosis and HIV medicines. Cases of counterfeit VMP have been reported in Europe, the United States, Canada and China and in some other Asian and African countries. In just the first three months in a major action that year in China, it was found that the quality of almost one-fifth of the controlled vehicles is not satisfactory, i.e. that these VMPs are falsified. In order to protect human health, monitoring of residues of veterinary medicinal products in food is carried out. Any reminder of animals intended for human consumption shall be subject to Article 87. The 2007 Veterinary Law shall keep and keep a record of the treatment of those animals for at least 5 years. It should be kept in order to demonstrate that those veterinary medicinal products are used as per the package leaflet and that a time period has been established since the last use of the veterinary medicinal product or withdrawal prior to the placing on the market of the product of animal origin. The proposal for this legislation on veterinary medicinal products is one of the rules which we have now fully comply with EU legislation and, above all, with the new concept of food safety in the EU. The HDZ Club will certainly support the adoption of this law. It implements EU directives and regulations, and by applying it, we become part of an integrated system coordinating between Member States the authorisation procedures for placing veterinary medicinal products on the market and national procedures of Member States in providing information on medical products and verifying compliance with good laboratory, clinical and manufacturing practices. What exactly is this about? Human and animal health cannot be a single country's problem and isolated. The epidemic of zoonoses and infectious diseases, let's remember cow's madness, bird flu, swine fever, foot and foot are not the problem of a country. These diseases do not know the borders, they spread regardless of whether a Member State or not is an EU member, and it is clear that these are problems that exceed the administrative borders and which countries in the environment must address coordinated and common and that is their common interest. It is therefore important for this law to be compatible and to allow for the exchange of information and the establishment of standards. For example, in Germany or Austria that can have perfect legislation and a supervisory inspection system, but if countries in the environment do not have those standards, what we have been saying about disease epidemics that do not respect borders and do not respect administrative limits, the disease will certainly spread. Here we have in Croatia a case related to swine fever. So, after we abolished the mandatory vaccination, monitors were set up but all this was not enough if the countries in the environment, which were Serbia, BiH, had not established the same standards. Then there was always a crisis hotspot. We must say that since 2007 we have successfully dealt with this in Croatia and that in 2012 Croatia was granted an authorisation to export pigmeat and gamemeat to the EU. Therefore, Croatia has a strong interest in laws and is probably an area of food safety in which there should be no calculations and delays compared to the EU standard because we are ultimately protecting the health of our people, our citizens and our consumers. The adoption of this law is also related, except for Chapter 1, but is closely linked to Chapter 12. Food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary supervision. But above all, this law is important and the HDZ club supports its adoption because it regulates the quality and safety of veterinary medicinal products, i.e. the protection of animal health and thus the protection of human health. Here are a few more sentences, in 2000 the EU made a turn in politics, security of food quality. This has resulted in a number of crises in the 1990 ’ s due to the occurrence of disease, epidemics, zoonoses caused by food or food for animals. We remember the dioxin found in animal food, then the formation of olive oil, then cow madness, so here's the last aflatoxin. These epidemics, events have affected the health and well-being of people with significant economic consequences for individuals, but also for families, for the entire communities and for operators in the food and food business, and for the whole country. This shift resulted in a White Paper on Food Safety, a strategy for food safety from field to table and Regulation 178/2002. So-called A hygienic package. What is crucial in this concept, food safety concepts and is directly linked to this law, it is aimed at preventing or introducing a food safety strategy from field to table, the responsibility of all those in the food chain is clearly prescribed. Therefore, from livestock producers, from those producing livestock, processing, meat industry, transport to final consumption and consumers. Therefore, these concepts of food safety cover the entire chain. Therefore, it is not to be assumed if contamination occurred at the stage of production or if they were treated incorrectly, therefore veterinary medicinal products should be given certain contaminants, so that they cannot be expected in the final product. Therefore, each segment of production and each stage is equally important and has an impact on the health regularity of the final product. Therefore, as a necessary assumption of healthy food, animal health and animal protection, but also the prescribed and controlled use of veterinary medicinal products which, in addition to their medical activity, may, if not carried out in accordance with the regulations, lead to contamination, or to a toxic component of residuality, may be lagging behind in tissue muscles and thus endanger the final product, i.e. the worst possible threat to consumer health. Another important area that is related to protection and which includes, in some ways, this law and the Food Act is an area of animal welfare and environmental protection. It should be made clear that the EU-produced support is no longer and is not only given as such, but has multiple conditions, so they must meet the standards of quality products, environmental standards and animal welfare standards. Because of all this and these facts, the Law on Veterinary Products is part of the EU legislation, which we will also become a member of 1.7, and this law brings us once more into line with them and the HDZ will, of course, support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38085	Thank you very much. Replica Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38086	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues of the twilight, you were talking about healthy food, the necessity of eating healthy food, and surely this law will contribute to that. Because as you said, food is exposed to a number of contaminants, and it certainly is necessary to pay attention to that. But I would draw attention to another problem, too, that it is necessary in these circumstances, where we have 25 million people falling in our country of food production, so provide the conditions for sufficient quantities to produce healthy food and therefore have the potential, we have the potential to almost feed 25 million people, and unfortunately we are witnessing these days, now for this weekend, the milkman's assembly is getting ready to warn about the catastrophic state of dairy where the daily OPGs that produce milk are failing. In that part, it is necessary to make efforts to enable those milkers and cattlemen, of course, to drop and produce meat, to produce sufficient quantities of quality products in order of course and the food industry to obtain quality raw materials, and certainly this part of this Veterinary and Medical Products Act will help in that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38087	To a replica of the reply, the gnome of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38088	Thank you very much, Mr. Milinkovic. Here's the thing, this law is therefore in line with EU law and is really talking about counterfeits that can come into the market and sell that are not useful. And what you were talking about, I agree with you, but for this is the government that has been in charge for a year and a half, that same government must create assumptions that agriculture and that peasant would have the opportunity to produce, in order to make it easier for the government to behave in that spirit of good lord. So he needs to know what's most important to him. We have indeed finished negotiations, I must say, and those relating to agriculture were the negotiations and the hardest ones. They're finished in the best possible way. Here's the second government in what would be said, so here's the way it shows how to work towards a peasant, whether to provide him with the possibility of good production, or not only to leave him at the level he was at, but also to lower that level, but that's this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38089	The replica was also reported by Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38090	Here's a distinguished colleague of mine you mentioned various kinds of outbreaks of bird flu, swine, cow madness, etc. and I say there is another epidemic of poverty and hunger in Croatia. Thanks to other measures and certain measures implemented by this Croatian government, thanks to the situation in agriculture, thanks to the fact that we still have to comply with almost all EU property laws which we will be 1.7. But as the only way we have left, the only straw of salvation will enter the EU, that it will depend more on us and that we enter responsibly hard on our knees, we enter the poor, we enter practically without perspective, we enter as a country that will serve as a raw base because everything in these 20 and a few years has been destroyed. We also have the fact that even today, even though we have the opportunity to feed half of Europe that we don't even have irrigation systems yet, that we dig that Danube-Sava channel several times before each election. That we still have more imports of agricultural products than exports, we still even import dry leaves and branches. It is clear to me that we are entering bananas because they cannot succeed in Croatia except in certain laboratory conditions and these are the facts that are in Croatia. So I'm responsible and you can ask every citizen you meet on the street, pensioners, workers waiting for that minimum wage to starve.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38091	Time. This replica is addressed to the debate on the Law on Veterinary Medicinal Products by Đurđica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38092	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Vinkovic, no matter what my discussion was about veterinary medicinal products, I tied her to food and you noticed good things. Here, of course, we see that over a million and 300 people on the poverty line in Croatia are surprised by this government that has been preparing for eight years to make significant reforms, to rebirth Croatia, but of all that nothing. For such a thing should have an esteemed colleague Vinkovic's competence, he should have a vision and have an understanding of the area we are dealing with. I hope that the government that comes very quickly and has both competence and vision but also understanding will otherwise contribute to the better production and better position of peasants because if someone prepares for something for eight years and doesn't end up getting ready I don't know what to say, it's a very bad student, nothing from a diploma, nothing from a master's degree, so I can't even do anything to them by the bologna, so they've failed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38093	The SDP club's position will be brought closer to us by a respected colleague, Mario Moharic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38094	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the respected ministers with their associates. Here I will concentrate in this debate on this law exclusively. This is another legislative proposal that aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. The law on veterinary medicinal products is a law governing the process of testing and placing on the market of production, labelling, pharmacovigilance, quality control, advertising of veterinary medicinal products all in order to ensure their quality, safety and ineffectiveness as animal health products and thereby protect the health of people from residence, veterinary medicinal products in food of animal origin and food and the placing on the market of accessories and other veterinary medicinal products. The proposal for a law is in line with Directive 2001/82 of the European Parliament and of the Council on a Community code relating to veterinary medicinal products. The proposal for a law with a view to the continued increase in the scope of veterinary medicinal products operations requiring specific knowledge and expertise and the lack of administrative capacity of the competent authority in the field of work to produce reports on veterinary medicinal products produced in the procedure of the delivery of veterinary medicinal products to the market shall propose to the legal person who fulfils the conditions laid down in the draft law. This shall ensure full implementation of the procedures for the placing on the market of veterinary medicinal products and the timely execution of those tasks within 210 days in accordance with Directive 2001/82. In addition to the most important issues covered by this law, these amendments and additions are. First, for the purposes of implementing Directive 2001/82 the draft law therefore amends or complements the concepts which are not adequately harmonised, the definition of the European Medicines Agency for immunological veterinary medicinal products, the adverse reactions of veterinary medicinal products. All criteria for the elimination or modification of authorisation for the placing on the market of veterinary medicinal products and for the withdrawal of those medicinal products shall be laid down. The provisions on the authorisation of placing veterinary medicinal products on the market in accordance with the decentralised procedure and the procedure for mutual recognition which determines the possibility of the competent authority to act before the Committee on Veterinary Medicinal Products, drawn up by the representatives of the Member States, shall be complemented. Furthermore, all reasons for the urgent withdrawal of veterinary medicinal products from the transport by the competent authority are laid down in the event of suspicion of non-quality, harmfulness and ineffectiveness. Furthermore, the draft law prescribes the provisions which are initially omitted, which are necessary to regulate the draft law, which are the conditions for temporary prohibition of the operation of veterinary medicinal products, i.e. the abolition of the authorisation of veterinary medicinal products that have been established only for wholesale sale so far. Furthermore, the obligation to notify the competent authority of any change in relation to the authorisation granted for the marketing of veterinary medicinal products to a large or small extent. The principle of good practice in the transport of veterinary medicinal products under which they are obliged to act wholesalely and veterinary medicinal products before placing the veterinary medicinal product on the market in order to ensure the quality of those products. Thirdly, the provisions on accessories and other veterinary products are more clearly regulated. The SDP will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38095	I thank my esteemed colleague. The replica was reported by a respected Djurjica Srumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38096	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well esteemed colleague Moharić and representative, but I know by profession that you will focus on this law but I hope that you as a fellow veterinarian really see what is the link between this law and this Chapter 1 and that Chapter Veterinary supervision and food safety because it is related to each other, so all that is said about food safety should be highlighted precisely about these counterfeits that come, sold in some agricultural or other veterinary pharmacies. And I'm unusually glad that they are now in reality now, not that we are, but that there they have to be, in order to comply with the EU to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38097	We have no answer, so I give the word to the Minister of Agriculture, Tihomir Jakovina, for the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38098	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is nice when outside clubs speak colleagues and colleagues who are from the branch of the profession and when praise the law so that I can say thank you for the support this law will receive in the benches of this respected House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38099	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38100	The following is the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on veterinary medicinal products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 309. The debate on the text of the law is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honorable Minister of Tihomir Jakovina to be seen on the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38101	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38102	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38103	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38104	Amendment No 1. to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38105	Yeah. Article 9, the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38106	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 2 of the same committee to Article 43
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38107	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38108	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. That's how we exhausted the list of amendments. We're moving on to a statement on the final bill. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 108 votes for the amendment and addition of the Law on Veterinary Medicinal Products in the text that the Proposer has tabled it together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38109	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final draft law implementing the European Union regulation on trade in illegally cut wood and products of such wood, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 332; Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received the report at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to add an explanation of the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Agriculture, respected Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposal for a law implementing the European Union regulations on trade in illegally cut wood and products of such wood is governed by the implementation of the following EU regulations. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since December 2005 on the establishment of a FLEGT system for the issue of licences for the import of wood into the European Community from third countries. Furthermore, Commission Regulation (EC) No Since October 2008, the detailed rules on the implementation of the previous Regulation of 2005 have been laid down. Furthermore, EU Regulation No. The EU Parliament's 995/10 of October 2010 laying down the obligations of economic operators which place wood and wood products on the market. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 363/2012 of February 2012 laying down rules of conduct for the recognition and confiscation of that recognition to supervisory organisations that will monitor the implementation of the relevant regulations in the EU Member States. And the last regulation is Commission Regulation No. 607.2012 of July 2012 laying down detailed rules for the system of application of business insights or the system of due attention and frequency, as well as the type of control of supervisory organisations. Those regulations regulate the maintenance of the order of management and trade of basic forest products and the products of wood processing as a first step towards solving and resolving the illegal exploitation of forests and related trade in wood and the product of such wood. The EU has seen the need to establish a system for issuing licences as a measure to ensure the entry into the EU internal market of only wood raw materials and wood products produced in accordance with national legislation or legal origin. Regulation No 995/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 363/2012 and Commission Implementing Regulation 607/2012 entered into force in the EU on 3 March 2013 and until the entry into full EU membership of the Republic of Croatia is extended to all holders exporting wood and wood products to the EU market. This means, in particular, that at the time of the first placing of wood or wood products on the EU market, exporting exporters from the Republic of Croatia have to submit their own declaration of legal origin to the EU exporting wood or wood products. After 1 July 2013, Croatian exporting producers for wood and wood products originating in the Republic of Croatia will not have to make mentioned statements, but only for wood and wood products imported from third countries. The competent organisations that implement and which are designated by the EU will monitor the implementation of a system of insight into the business of all participants in the wood supply chain or control whether all participants in the chain have a valid declaration of legal origin in the first place on the internal market of the EU. The other two Regulations, Council Regulation 2173/2005. and Commission Regulation 1024/2008. They shall enter into force on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, which means that the Republic of Croatia will have to control at its borders whether importers of wood or wood products have a valid authorisation of a uniform format for imports of those products from partner countries, i.e. Flagt license. The FLEGT system shall be implemented through the VPS Prutnership Agreement with the countries of wood producers and wood products. It is necessary to introduce this system and the need to introduce this system is visible from the data that once a tree enters the European Union, it is considered legally cut and one fifth of that tied wood was actually illegal. The primary objective is to protect the environment and prevent the dead from cutting into forests. The European Union has signed these voluntary partnership agreements with the following countries, Cameron, Ghana, Indonesia, Liberia, the Republic of Congo, the Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Guyana, Malaysia and Vietnam. Accordingly, the export of wood and wood products originating in the Republic of Croatia does not require special FLEG licences. All Member States shall lay down the infringement provisions, i.e. fines applicable in the event of infringement of the provisions of the Regulations adopted and prescribed by this law. Finally, the consequences of the adoption of this law are the introduction and maintenance of order, management and trade of forest exploitation products, i.e. wood and wood products. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38111	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the Clubs. A respected representative, Zoran Vasic, will speak for the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38112	Thank you. Honorable Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the proposal for a law implementing a regulation of the European Union relating to trade in illegally cut wood and products of such wood, in fact implementing regulations of the European Union which speak about the maintenance of order, management and trade in basic forest products, and wood processing products as a first step towards the resolution of the illegal exploitation of the forest and its related trade. In order to prevent illegal cutting and importing of wood, and to preserve the biodiversity of forests, a regulation adopted at European level was adopted in 2005, as Minister said 2173 establishing a system for issuing licences for the import of wood into the European Union and three years later in 2008, therefore a regulation defining more detailed implementation of the rules relating to the problem was adopted. This established a voluntary system to ensure that only legally visited trees from countries that have agreed to participate in such a system are imported into the European Union. The aim is to prevent imports into the European Union of illegally visited wood by requiring all companies in the European Union that place wood or wood products on the market to prove its origin. The need to introduce this system is evident from the fact that once a tree enters the European Union it is considered legally visited and here according to the data from these materials it turns out that one fifth of that imported wood is illegal, which is a really large number. The primary objective is to protect the environment and prevent dead cuts. This proposal highlights the issue of reform of the system, management and training of assisted activities aimed at developing multilateral cooperation towards reducing the consumption of illegally visited wood. The establishment of an authorisation system shall then be determined as a measure to ensure that only those wood products produced legally and in accordance with national legislation are entered into the Community. The authorisation in question states that wood products, i.e. wood products, are therefore produced from domestic wood which has been legally visited or from trees which have been legally imported into a partner country in accordance with national rules as set out in the relevant Partnership Agreement. Supporting these rules is subject to third party supervision. The competent authorities of the Member States shall confirm that each consignment covers a valid authorisation before placing a consignment covered by the authorisation in free circulation in the Community. Each Member State should determine the penalties applicable in the event of an infringement of that Regulation. Looking at the situation of trade in illegally visited trees, we can point out that when we talk about a state-owned enterprise, therefore, Croatian forests are mostly without a problem because the tree of Croatian forests but also the wood products of most domestic wood processors are certified which is significantly better identified by the origin of raw materials because the certificate holders are under the system of regular annual control and are very important for them a system of traceability. Since 2002, Croatia's forests have been the holders of fsc forest management certificates. A fsc certification means that the forest is dominated by strict ecological, social and economic standards. fsc certificate is a great honor and international recognition in the way of forest management within the Croatian forests, which takes place according to strict criteria. In doing so, Croatia's forest profession, which has already been responsible for generations, has been given an extremely significant national resource, and I consider it a great recognition. Also, the fact that Croatian forests can place all their products on the market as FSC certified and of enormous significance for the Croatian wood industry. Since most of their raw materials come from that very source. The wood growers also recognized this opportunity so that in Croatia we currently have about 150 FSC certified companies that have gained a great comparative advantage. I think the bigger problem lies on private forest owners. In fact, in the Republic of Croatia we have about 600 thousand private forest owners who rule with just as much as a hectares of private forests. I'm not sure how much they adhere to the provisions of the Forest Act and other regulations in the area of forestry. And I'm only going to give you one example. Therefore, in accordance with Article 8. The forest law which says that Croatian forests and forest owners therefore, I stress the forest owners are obliged to master forests by maintaining and promoting biodiversity and landscape diversity, and to worry about the protection of the forest ecosystem in the following ways and now quote one of the items that I believe is important which says: "to avoid cutting down protected rare and endangered species of trees, forest orchards and other species with berries and to protect them and to bring them in during the restoration of the forest.". Well, unfortunately, they're just worth it, but also the noble kinds of trees, first of all, I'm thinking of fruitcakes, i.e. specifically wild cherries, they cut the most in private forests, and often without any order, and it's only because it has the highest value as a tree. Finally, given the wealth with which the Republic of Croatia is lording when we talk about forests, and I will remind you that it is about 2 million and 700 thousand hectares somewhere and the need to comply with the legislation regarding the trade in wood, the SDP club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38113	Thank you very much. We have a reported replica of Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38114	Here is a colleague, Vasic, who may have raised an important question when he mentioned the cutting of noble types of wood, especially in private forests, and there is an issue that opens up which competent inspections are doing. So it's been a year and a half and we can't go back to that time until 2012, I'm convinced that even in those inspections you put your similar political personnel in place as you replaced all the directors of the Croatian Forests who were members of other political options, changed practically everyone in the country, set up their own people. Well, I'm asking an open question not to you, but also to the minister, which is what competent inspections do if there's a violation of the law in the private woods. Therefore, the law should apply to Croatian forests, as well as to all private owners of these forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38115	The minister will not answer for you for the time being, but your colleague Vasic will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38116	Dear counterpart Vinkovic, however, is certain that the competent institutions should always do their job and I agree on it, but I would stress here on another institution that has been placed I would say in prison, which is the Forest Advisory Service. Namely, it was founded precisely with the aim of caring, I will say, about private forests but I will remind you and everyone else that it was, therefore, independent when it was founded, but in 2010 due to the desire to reduce the number of agencies, to reduce the total cost that goes to the functioning of the agency, the Forest Advisory Service is attached to the Croatian forests and in fact no longer has the importance that it had until then, therefore, to control what is done in the private forests or takes care of the management of private forests. I'm sure the Ministry will take care of that and that the Forest Advisory Service will regain its rightful place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38117	We're continuing the club debate. I call upon my esteemed colleague, Djurdzica Sumrak, to state the positions of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38118	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates. So here is today another law that we are harmonising with the European Union because we are soon becoming a member of the European Union and before I start talking about the law, which I forgot to say in the past law, we should thank all veterinarians and veterinarians on the ground and the entire veterinary profession who really cared about the safety of not only animals but food and the environment. And at the moment when we talk about the law or the bill on the implementation of regulations regarding the trade of illegally cut wood and products of such wood, I would, above all, rather than start to talk about this problem of illegal cutting, really thank you on behalf of at least the club of our HDZ to all the foresters, all the foresters, my scientific expertise in forestry and all those who kept our forests clean and for which Croatia also received the FSC certificate. Something here is our young so maybe it's not for, it should be said in reality what the forests mean to us in Croatia. We in Croatia have forests on almost 47% of the total land area. During each life in the atmosphere, forests pull about 2.5 million tons of carbon, retain more than 17 million tons of dust, while producing about 5 million tons of oxygen. The forest absorbs up to 50% of SO2 and other harmful compounds, and the most dangerous polyaromic hydrocarbons, which, like other gases in the air, releases cars and thermal power plants. Our forests in Croatia are a European reservoir of biodiversity and as such we enter the European Union, and according to the composition of the trees they are natural, they are very similar to the forests of which they originate. They have an exceptional variety of habitats with as many as 105 types of forest communities, and along with many other bird species that are already endangered in Europe in our Croatian forests can still be found both the pike and eagle clickers and the black storks. In Croatia, the level of conservation of forests is extremely high, especially in the area of Gorski Kotar, Velebit, Lonjsko polje and Spačva, especially compared to European forests, and even about 95 of them have natural composition. It is therefore about Croatian forests, which is rare and extremely valuable. Because of changes in the atmosphere and human activity, the forest is drying, getting sick and disappearing. The reasons for the threat of forests not only in Croatia relate primarily to air, soil and water pollution, to unwarranted water-economic procedures, and to the construction of transport corridors through forest belts. Of course, through this problem of illegal trade and cutting down trees. There's something else I'd like to say. With a simple meal, the most endangered species of trees in Croatia is an oak pond whose most significant drying began in the first half of the 20th century. In Croatia today there are 35 special forest vegetation reserves and their main goal is to protect and preserve forest eco-systems, and most of the protected forest eco-systems are located within the parks of nature and national parks that we have in Croatia today 8. I must point out as one couriness, let's say Mljet was one of the first areas in Europe proposed for protection because of its forest environmental systems back in 1910. Not to list other areas, but it may be convenient to hear of all of us to remind ourselves that among the most famous trees in Croatia, Gupčeva lipa in Gornji Stubica, which is older than 1573, then in Arboretum Tristeno near Dubrovnik there are two trees of Oriental canvas over 450 years old and they are added to the tree's most beautiful trees in Europe. In the Slavonian forest of Prašnik near Okučana there are about 200 oak trees 300 years old and over, and for example in the park Golubinjak near Lokva there is a queen of forests, giant dishes over 250 years of height of 37 meters and a width of 140 cm. So because of all of this above, we also have NATURA 2000, and as Croatia is one of the richest countries in Europe, Croatia has contributed to the NATURA 2000 network and the conservation of biodiversity throughout the EU is crucial, and the ecological network of forests has also entered in the country. The total area of forest and forest land in the Republic of Croatia is 2 million and 700000 ha. As I said before, that's 47% of the land surface. Of which 2 million and 100000 ha is owned by the Republic of Croatia, which is mastered by Croatian forests d.o.o. while 581770 ha is owned by private forest owners. The main forest is owned by the state, so the business company of the Croatian Forests. We also classify the forest according to their purpose, and according to the Forests Act by purpose can be economic, protective and special purpose forests. In order to prevent illegal cutting and imports of wood, and to preserve the biodiversity of forests in 2005 at European level, the adopted Regulation No. 2173/2005 establishing a FLEGT authorisation system for importing wood into the EU. While three years later, detailed implementing rules were adopted and contained in Regulation 1024/2008. This established a voluntary system to ensure that only legally visited wood is imported into the EU from countries that have agreed to participate in such a system. This law implements EU regulations on the maintenance and management and trade of basic forest products and products of wood processing as a first step towards the resolution of illegal forest exploitation and related trade. The need to establish a system for issuing licences is highlighted as a measure to ensure that only wood raw materials and wood products produced in accordance with national legislation, and this is now becoming EU legislation. EU countries are largely preventing these regulations from importing suspicious raw materials and furniture from underdeveloped countries, as well as countries that threaten European producers with cheaper raw materials and products. It is estimated that between 20% and 40% of the global wood industry is based on illegal raw materials. Croatia's wood industry totals $760m in exports to the EU market as much as 70%. All Croatian companies have an FS certificate that proves that the tree comes from official channels, or that it is not a tree that has been visited illegally. The new EU rules introduce a ban that will cover raw materials, i.e. raw wood construction and wood processing such as furniture and floor coverings, and companies will have to carefully check suppliers in the future. This means that the origin of wood products will have to be determined. In this way, the EU seeks to protect its markets from large quantities of wood and cheap furniture coming from tropical countries, as well as from China and Brazil. This bill also aims to strengthen efforts aimed at halting the illegal cutting of which is caused by serious environmental damage and loss of biodiversity. And it also undermines the efforts of those who try to manage the forest in an unsustainable way. The EU contributes to the fight against illegal cutting, which not only destroys these same resources but also affects the job of forestry. This is a concrete EU contribution to combating biodiversity loss. European entrepreneurs selling wood and wood products for the first time on the EU market either coming from the EU or imported will have to know the origin of the tree. They will also have to take certain steps to ensure that the tree is visited in accordance with the relevant laws of the country from which they originate. Providers across the supply chain within the EU will have to keep records of who they bought from and who they sell wood and wood products to. Member States will be responsible for applying sanctions on entrepreneurs, i.e. entrepreneurs who break the rules. Legality will be defined by calling on the law of the country from which this tree originates. Wood products from countries that have entered the EU will be considered in line with this regulation. The Regulation will apply to a wide range of wood and wood products including products of mass wood, splinter products, plywood, furniture, cellulose and paper. Because of the illegal cutting, the government loses more significant amounts of money which could otherwise be invested in better health, education, agriculture and other services and undermine the European governments' efforts to introduce sustainable forest management. As a result of the above-mentioned HDZ club, it will support the adoption of this law because thank God that we have really complied with EU laws. We can see that there may be more illegal cuttings on our market as well today, but also products from illegal sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38119	Thank you. The HDZ club will now be replicated by Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38120	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. My colleagues, I would like to take one replica to your conclusion that in Croatia 47% of the area is under the woods, right? And that it produces a lot of oxygen, that it's an apartment for birds to sing. The Croatian muffin is very narrow. That oxygen produced goes if they smoke south in Bosnia and if they smoke storms to the Italians. We don't have much of that oxygen to use. First, for example, in Dalmatia, a philosopher arrived in 1911 and destroyed vineyards and are now forests. Then Communism came, so they destroyed agricultural land, turned everyone into a forest while America was giving corn and butter, and we don't know abnormally that 47% of the state's territory is under the woods. It's not real, it's not supposed to be real. Go to Italy and see how far it's under the woods. Every inch is farmed, and what can't is forest. That's what we should be trying to do. That's what this government needs to do. Unfortunately, my great disappointment with this past we have to admit for 10 years it has been hard to develop agriculture and something has now come to an end, in three years it will not be 47% of colleagues but will be 52% under the woods. And I believe that Croatian forests are an ossuary bureaucratic structure. The redefinition of Croatian territory, which is the forest. For example, I've got a few more seconds, and on the island of Solta there were all the vineyards and now they're pines. Is that a forest? There's a lot of schizo. It's all forest. Nor can hotels or houses be built, these are not forests but occupied vineyards, occupied by increased pine trees. And these aren't forests, but they should be returned to agricultural land as they were. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38121	Now the HDZ club is responding to Dujomir Marasovic's replica. Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38122	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Marasovic and just as the woods belong to agricultural land and 47% of them I am really happy that we have so many. And as for the oxygen that you were talking about that our oxygen is going to Bosnia, so it's equally expected that this one from Bosnia is coming to us in Croatia. When I talked about the forests and birds of singers and everything that really means in an ecological one explanation, I think I did it well because those with preserved forests are leaving for the EU. And as far as agricultural land is concerned, a lot of forests have been devastated to reach building land, reportedly agricultural land that was later refurbished into construction land. There's been a lot of irregularities. Agricultural land should indeed be put into operation as a agricultural land and give the Croatian peasant a chance to process it. As we see, the Law on Agricultural Land of the State which was recently in the debate did not allow a natural person, or OPG one, to buy land to have it. Because the Croatian peasant loves his country, but you come from Dalmatia, we here in central Croatia and Slavonia forests are rich and they are the pride of a host because sometimes you say how many countries you have, but I don't know so many acres of forest. So we're not going to let those woods go to waste, we're going to really bet that there's no illegal cutting in those woods.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38123	Thank you. I now call upon my esteemed colleague, Milorad Batinic, vice president of the House to present the views of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38124	Dear Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I did not expect this law on the implementation of the EU regulation on trade in illegally cut wood and products to instigate so much interest from our parliamentary deputies and MPs primarily as regards compliance with EU legislation. What I would like to say at the outset is that the Croatian forest profession for several centuries has a tradition of management, management of forests and what we have today is the merit of all previous generations which have been the result since the 17th, 18th century when the foundations of Croatian forestry have been hit. The result today in Croatia is that in Croatia we have perhaps the term is not the most convenient but the most natural forests with the highest biodiversity, the most natural ingredients, very few artificially restored ingredients primarily the ones that are concerned about the necessity of whether it is the calamities of some other weather disasters or something like that. This Regulation, the implementation of the Regulations, is one sequence of entry of the Republic of Croatia into one large community of European countries. It's about maintaining order, managing, trading basic forest products and wood products, and that's good, that's necessary. However, I would also like to point out that it could not be seen from some thinking of previous discussions as if there had been no debate in Croatia long before. The placing on the market of illegal cuttings, there are and there are still existing laws that define, regulate that topic. What would, of course, the Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats will support this law, but I would like to take advantage of the occasion and look back briefly and on certain terms, so just as a dead-cutting forest term is not known to me, I may not have been in the profession for 8 years, but I haven't been able to hear that term with a dead memory, whether it's being translated, whether it's being used somewhere in EU countries or in world terminology, but it's not known to me, so here I hope that there will be an opportunity for the minister to answer me now or in due time, which means exactly. Furthermore, I would also like to refer to what will come naturally in this home and what will come I certainly believe soon is the Law on Forests, New Law or Amendments and Supplements, depending on what amendments and supplements it is doing, where perhaps a certain terminology related to harmonisation with European legislation will have to be harmonised, even if I always prefer a national language and expression, and here would be my suggestion. In one section, it is written to say the consequences that will arise, the adoption of this law is the maintenance of order, governance and trade in forestry as a first step towards solving illegal exploitation of forests and related trade. If we read that Croatia is already in the EU, when we read this after July 2, then yes, but if we read this today, then no. First of all, like in all sectors, all the dams to say that prevention is the key to something like that. This reading July 2nd, yes. In fact, many wooden companies in the Republic of Croatia today as well as in the previous decades have imported wood from neighbouring countries, and today imports are primarily the neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Serbia, Macedonia, Romania is experiencing circumstances in the EU, so there will be no problems, Ukraine, the eastern country, primarily this applies to them. And there is certainly that in that part other than the service, institutions that supervise customs, etc. First of all, this regulation will need to be met as soon as possible by the processor tree itself. What it means is that the intensity itself is very clear in Article 5, where criminal provisions are, "A legal person who imports wood and wood products into the EU will be punished if they are not covered by a specific permit." It's in this case a FLEGT permit. What I would like to say more, as far as this is concerned, is an opportunity, of course, and our obligation to bring national legislation into line with EU legislation, and this is one part. However, we must make certain changes, as I have initially said about the Law on the Forests, there was also mentioned an advisory service which, to be honest, I do not know how much information I do not know, public authorities have been transferred to the company, I think there is a space that should certainly be redefined, an advisory service yes, but in the very sense of that word, the advisory service. I have also advocated over the previous years what was formed, that the large part of the work to run the trade society of the Croatian Forests, which just with the management of over 500 thousand hectares, would not want to speak too much precisely because I agree with both my colleague Marasović and my colleague Sumrak, so there are data that should certainly be updated, there are methodologies, there are technologies that can very precisely tell us exactly which areas are concerned. Nor should I, why I am talking about harmonising national legislation, primarily because when we talk about forest owners' forests, we are aware of the fact that a large number of forest complexes have been returned to the followers of the Property Return Act. There are certain doubts, there are no arguments, I quote what was written in the media, which is said: "That there is a grey zone which should certainly be regulated by our new harmonised legislation." I would also like to just, why I point out these arguments, in force I hope the rules on tree identification, the marking of wood varieties, escorts and forest order. It states for Article 21(1): "For wood varieties and forest owners, an escort shall be issued on a valid form, an escort referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be issued by the forest advisory service which has carried out the identification of the trees, etc." Done at Brussels, 30 June 2018. The Law on Forests says: "On the subject of marking, i.e. the signs of trees, the marking of wood visited in the forest or outside the forest of forest owners and other forest products originating in these forests, and the issue of an escort is carried out by a company. So it's a technical synchronization, but I'm sure there's a space there, too. We are talking about the restructuring of the entire public sector in this restructuring sector is also the business company of the Croatian Forests where there is also room for one synergy and all with the aim of even more high quality forests, far increased supervision of forest management and, accordingly, control of controls and goods, products from forests, as well as control of pilanas. Of course, not all of this is within the competence of the forest profession, there are inspection services, so I hope that there will also be some results. Once again, the HNS Club will support this regulation law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38125	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, colleague Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38126	Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, with the club's associates, I'll start by saying that the HDZ Club will support, I apologize, I apologize. I wanted to mention something about HDZ, so this is how it turned out. The HDSSB club will support this law but will also claim that during the HDZ and now during the coalition, the Kukuriku coalition of the SDP, I am sorry now that there are no colleagues here, who mentioned that certain representatives are replicating their clubs, so my language was faster. The situation in the SDP is much more complicated because there is also an announcement of the SDP membership of the former minister and also opposition to a certain law, but I say I am sorry that there is no Stazic, so I do not believe that he would be very pleased to be here with the speakers behind me as we stick to the Rules of Procedure first and foremost. But first of all, this law is one possibility, since it says in this one explanation that it will allow for the maintenance of order, management, and trade in forestry as a first step in non-resolvement of illegal forest exploitation. So this argument may well have claimed that so far it was the fact that we had an illegal exploitation of the forest in Croatia. Well, if that's the case, then all of the ministries so far are responsible. I'd like someone to talk me out of it first, both HDZ and SDP. However, the consequences of the adoption of this law will definitely argue that management, that the consequences that will result from the adoption of this law and the maintenance of orderly management and trade in forestry will be the first step towards the resolution of the illegal exploitation of forests and related trade. So this is one of the very important sentences for me on the reasoning of this law with which we re-coordinate this law with the property of the EU and I can argue that the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia is, above all, thanks to and perhaps the most thanks to the employees of the Croatian Forests, satisfying that we have a series of national parks, nature parks in which at the moment the environmental protection is not as much concerned as about the arrangement of the premises, the purchase of SUVs, the purchase of flowers, and I don't know what is the case in Plitvices, such as the case in Krka and the wonders there are also named party likes. I'm going to clarify the situation in the Croatian forests a little bit. So it's done and HDZ, there's nothing new doing it and SDP. So after each election we have a thorough cleanup in all administrations of the Croatian Forests in the territory of all Croatia so that we have one I would say one unwritten rule that the current manager becomes or the director of the forest management becomes a consultant, so a colleague from HDZ or HSS will become a consultant now from the SDP, since Croatian forests are all in cake or cake shared by the Kukuriku coalition in public enterprises of the Republic of Croatia regardless of professional courtesy, they enter that quota. And so we have over the years piled up to say piled advisors, accumulated costs and the only rationalisation that is currently being conducted in the Croatian forests is practically complete centralised. Since the reduction of field cars, so if you have to admit that you are also buying new official cars, that you can't enter with a certain BMW week into the woods, that you can do this with the 4-wheelers, so if a system of Croatian forests introduced by the director of the Croatian Forests Pavelic is the first to appear to the manager of the relevant forestry, then the one with the request.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38127	Comrade Vinkovic, let's say something about the law and not about the Croatian forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38128	I'm talking about the law, and this is a very important topic for my colleague is how this man is going to enforce this law and prevent illegal exploitation of the forest if his tire breaks. So, first of all, be restrained and listen to what I'm saying because this is a practical problem, and this can be confirmed by everyone who works in the Croatian forests now. So he, with a written request, reports to the competent manager, and then reports to Zagreb. So as it goes by, it's a month before this paperwork starts, until it's approved and that car stands for a month until a spare tire comes in from Zagreb or an approval where you can buy that tire or not a God stain to patch up that tire. This is also the law because we boasted here that we had abolished the parafiscal inducement that was tied to the forest contribution. And here is an open question because this forest contribution has been used to cut down those fire averages, roads, I claim that this memory in the Republic of Croatia has stated that it is visible not only in Dalmatia where it is the most polluted but also in Slavonia and in the whole part of Croatia. At the moment, Croatian forests are not able to do these jobs without contributions, and one specific rationalisation is not enough for this, no matter how much it boasts in the media. This is a law where we can also open a topic of state in the wood industry that is collapsing, which is on the extremity. And that's an open question to be asked before the Parliament. I've read and watched the Space-Plan documentation of the Republic of Croatia, and the addition of the spatial plan, I haven't seen any movement of those tolls from Ivanje Reka up to practically a bit in front of Ježev or whether they will be called these payment homes Welcome to Croatia, Ježevo or Rugvica we don't know yet, but the fact is that they are moving. They do not move because Croatian or Croatian highways want to reduce the toll to the citizens because they have not even reduced it, regardless of what the minister has spoken here, but rather have increased it for the sake of arrival, and this was obviously a condition set before Croatia for the sake of arrival and this is not an advertisement for the sake of IKEA which will further destroy the entire wood industry in the Republic of Croatia and this is a fact and this question requires one serious answer. Who pays for that shift if they're already coming, if they're already going to hire 500, 600 or 700 and start new jobs, and close 2,3,000 jobs or 10,000 jobs? Who's the question, too? Perhaps here I will answer to my colleagues Batinić if they remember this dead man thinking of you not being in the profession for a long time, and I'm not a forest profession, if the dead remembers in this law thinking of pure cutting, then you probably know what I mean by pure cutting that someone does and spends without the planting of new seedlings, but that's another story. So this law definitely also shows that the abolition of certain institutions, agencies, service sometimes is not good no matter how many they had, no matter how many they set up, but we are talking about the Forest Advisory Service which, by crossing into the Croatian forest, obviously lost the right intention of what was to be done and practically at this point does nothing and there is no control over me I would tell private owners who also have woods. The only control that is thus carried out through this complete centralised system that is not good, and I speak exclusively for economic reasons that are carried out only in the Croatian forests. So here's the case, we're going to have today that the law that the Croatian government and the ministry proposed two, three weeks ago with a revolutionary public address on putting into office agricultural land that we already have amendments and additions to the Agency's law today because the promoter obviously forgot to put very important things like the salaries of employees, such as coefficients etc. And even a deputy's place. I hope that the HDSSB club has opened a broad debate about the situation not only in the wood industry but also in the Croatian forests, and I repeat that sometimes it is not good to change people because they have, and they may not have certain party cards and we have to put on our own because we have agreed with coalition partners. And that's why our condition is as it is, we're sinking deeper and deeper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38129	Thank you. Replica has a colleague, Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38130	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Vinkovic, I disagree with your findings when you said that the forests that were in the complexes meant in those municipalities where the comassation was carried out into these complexes were also entered by private forests, which the great-grandfathers were planting. And they got a deadline that in these complexes they could use that forest on, usually it was for 10 years. If they used it after that deadline, they now manage Croatian forests and have received drastic penalties. I stand for it, not for people to be punished, but for those who planted it and nursed it all this time for 30, 50, and more years so that they could exploit it for another 10 years and not for those forests to be taken away from them. I don't agree with that. And since the minister is here, I'm using another fact, which is in equal Slavonia, in the heart of the flat Slavonia of the forest, the dusty one. Where are the centuries-old oaks, beech and other kinds of wood. Dear friends, we have to do everything and the ministry, and we have to make the duster, that pearl mines, demines, we have to do everything because it's a sin if we don't do it eventually for 2, 3 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38131	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38132	Here's my dear colleague, Shima, I didn't talk about what you talked about at all, but here I agree with you, I agree with you, but you can listen to the phonogram, but, not even about the combination, I was talking at one point about the advisory forest service that lost its practical meaning, drowned in the Croatian forest even though it should have continued its work. So here you are, in my opinion, hurting the Rules of Procedure because you're replicating something I didn't say. But then, I support what you've said and I agree with that. This is especially visible in Slavonia and Gorski Kotar where many privates therefore had to rent certain land, had a part of the forest. So you have even on the oranics, so that part of the agricultural land that is somewhere or in the middle of the tables on that former state land has become a forest, etc., etc. So I couldn't agree more on that, too, taking care of it, but, therefore, you should be careful not to be here like some of us were in a conflict of interest so that something unexpected would not happen. But here I am responsibly saying that the production of not only this recompromisation is practically converted into production, the primary production of the hulls that we have increasingly fewer furniture factories, that this is a basic problem and we are rich in forest, as we are rich in land and water and that very quickly we can go back to that Middle Ages or at the time of the original accumulation of capital where we will only have sawmills.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38133	Replica Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38134	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Vinkovic, leave the HSS alone. You were in the SDP at the time when you were probably deciding who would be director of the Croatian Forests while the coalition was when it was the former one of the HSS, you are now in the HDSSB. So I suggest you first settle things in the HDSSB whether you might be setting people up and leaving the HSS alone because none more of these people are an active member of the HSS, so let's just forget it and say it's past time. But I agree with you that the heads of state companies are managers, that they be men of the profession, that they are not political alike.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38135	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38136	I was in the SDP then, but I did not decide who would be director of the Croatian Forests, Ledinski was in that term. Now, is he more in, Darko, if I'm not wrong, not the one from Koprivnica, maybe they're cousins, but in any case I didn't decide on it, but it was obviously a thing back then, neither was I a representative here nor was I in the government. Although, even though I didn't go to the election then in 2000, it was on the SDP Parliament list. But in 2001, I became mayor of Djakova. But the fact that it was like that back then and it was the sharing of cakes. I only mentioned that time when the SDP was in the coalition with the HSS that it was done the same way. It's like when you were in the coalition with HDZ. And that's how it's done now. So it doesn't matter if you're an expert, because if the fact is what was written in the media that the situation in the Croatian forests in certain administrations is a disaster, that the losses, that they're embezzlements, that they're thieves, so someone should have gone to jail by now. And that was obviously a hoax, so let's take someone from another political option and put theirs on 'cause he's better because he has a party card and maybe there's not a day's internship in those woods, maybe he wasn't even an intern. Here and I'm glad you agree, here's the thing with my opinion, and you can be sure when we start thinking about leaving the profession to the experts, then we'll get out of the crisis. As long as politicians run all the public companies, you were angry with us and this Croatian people and Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38137	The Republic has Vice President Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38138	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Namely, my colleague Vinkovic can't agree with, it may not even be an opinion, before... It sounded like an attitude related to vehicles in the Croatian forests, hijacked vehicles, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, I remember a long variety of organizational forms of the formation of Croatian forests and before that. And I know very well, when I was at the head of the forest as many cars as we had today. And I agree there's been a reduction in the number of vehicles. But the job doesn't take it, so it's not the key, it's not the point of equipment. I remember the time when we were out of cell phones, not to say on foot or on bikes, business was working, so the question is the organization. And whoever gave you that information, whoever wants to do something will find a way, whoever doesn't want to, can invent a thousand reasons not to do anything. What I can partly agree with, that this type of organization, structure, companies that perform and monitor the prevention, also related to the illegal cutting that we have talked about here, according to my information of illegal cuttings in the Croatian forests. They were gone by the '90s, the war did its own, the war period unfortunately too. What's the problem is that it's also reflected in the private woods. Today, order is also being introduced in private forests and, of course, it is time, the time that follows and which will be needed and I say just by entering legislation, it should have positive effects.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38139	Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38140	You see, 10 years is a relatively long time, even for me 12 years in politics is a relatively long time because many things have changed in engineering, they've changed in medicine, but I'm talking about engineering. But also a lot of things have been changed in forestry, in technology, there are newer expressions, etc. But I am responsible for telling you that just in order to get toilet paper you have to call the manager, i.e. Director General of the Croatian Forests. It's a fact and without it there isn't, not to get a car part. It's not a problem to reduce the number of cars, it's a problem, so here I have the same forest in Djakova where it is in '92. The years worked 300 people, now working 90, in the same area. Be assured those people who work there are missing. At the same time, not in Đakov, but in the Croatian forests, the administration is piled up, starting from the smallest administration to Zagreb and there is a problem, Mr Batinic. You've been out of the Croatian forests and forests in general for a long time, only if you're going hunting, and I haven't talked about hunting conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38141	And Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38142	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, you spoke to your colleague Vinkovic about further reducing that fee for other useful functions of the forest, as far as I know, OKFŠ I think it's called this fee and it has proved to be harmful in practice, it is clearly regulated for which purposes are used. It's used for fire protection as far as I can tell for both demining and so on. That amount is used. And we are now, we are witnessing the recent years of drought, an immense drought that naturally acts harmfully in the woods. Of course, these floods also have their own influence. I come from a place where we have one beautiful rapist forest, my half, and the municipality is covered. And every year, we witness an increasing number of droughts and sure-fired noises as such are necessary because other than this worry that they are not cut illegally, it also requires deforestation in order to preserve those forests that are lungs, which are oxygen. So in that part, it's missing, and this is where it didn't say the result where it was thought it would contribute, let's say the discharge because we see that the number of employees didn't grow, same as that contribution to healthcare is two percent missing here, and there's no results here. There's a problem, and I think these illegals are cutting him down for sure, and the forest's growing is very important, and that's what attention needs to be paid to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38143	Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38144	Although we understand each other, I am not in favour of Croatia having parafiscal obligations, but apparently the owner or user, the owner, the concessionary, should maintain those averages. Whether the state should have found a way in the state budget and provided these funds, whether this is a means of prevention, especially those fires in Dalmatia, in the coast, but I also claim on the continent that climates are changing more and more, that we have practically two seasons, that this can happen both in Slavonia and in Slavonian forests. On the other hand, I'm going to continue this story, my colleague, it reminds me of something like that. what was going on before at the Ministry of Education when you had complete centralization and was called by a minister or some commission which he authorised to open a contract for the purchase of wood and then the wood was driven there, let's say from Benkovec to Box without that contribution from the special public fire departments and drove to Slavonia, to Lenjavska Varoš. It also wasn't normal, as it isn't normal for me to write you a letter from the CEOs to grant me two hellish toilet papers in a roll, and he can't write it in a roll, but you'll get it in the ballots because we're doing a full rationalization. At the same time, the director of the national park buys an SUV of not knowing how many hundreds of thousands of euros visible or that bouquet to make your living in a hotel.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38145	Thank you. Minister Tihomir Jakovina's closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38146	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Before I give a little reference to the law itself and your references to the law, although at least it was about that and I am actually appealing to my respected colleague Vinković when he talks about the Law on Agricultural Land, or agencies to look at the material of what is the subject of one of the points of the agenda, not the Agency for Agricultural Land, but the paying agencies that have nothing to do with each other, so that a little more preparation for the session would not hurt, and in this second part, I will also look at a series of actually quite political elections or demagogue claims that you have made about the Croatian forests and in general for the Ministry of Agriculture... with numbers that most of the things you said don't actually stand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But first I'm going to refer to the very remarks that we heard in the law that the termologically in the translation of the EU legislation is a dead memory, and in fact it represents a clean cut in our terminology and will be harmonised, but since... That's the story. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I thank you all for once again and for your support for this law, and for the fact that it is for Croatia's forests and for a series of inaccuracies and inaccuracies that you have made. I will say this, what is done in the Croatian forests back 16 months of new administration, actually measures to improve the business of Croatian forests. When you speak, and they include several items, it is also a reorganisation of the Croatian forests and consolidation of all activities within society as well as restructuring with one basic goal, which is to improve the business and performance of the business of the Croatian forests. Croatian forests are a commercial society that manages one of the most important resources in the Republic of Croatia. We've heard the numbers of how much the area is under the woods, which is important both in ecological and economic and in any other sense. When you talk about the alleged political cut and the rest, I will warn you that the formation of the Croatian forests is so that we have a directorate, that we have 16 branches and that we have 173 forests. In that directorate there was once a five-member administration now a three-member administration. You're talking about party people. Mr. Pavelic, who is chairman of the administration, is a non-party person, a manager who already has three times better results in the first year than the administrations that worked before them. And when you talk about the number of people, in 2003 there were 40 people working in the Zagreb Directorate. When I became a minister and took over as a congregation of Croatian Forests, 178 employees were in the same directorate. When you talk about that ruthless cutting of people and bringing in some party personnel outside of 16 branches, 4 remained old leaders, 12 leaders... The people who were in the system, who were employees of the Croatian Forests in these same administrations, when we talk about 173 forests, there were only twenty changes, and those people who, where they found unconscious business and business management in the places they were doing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the system no one or almost no one came from the side, and when we talk about savings in the final account for business in 2012 223 million kunas were savings only at material costs. That was why more than 16 branches do not have separate accounts and do not have funds without any supervision. What you're saying about obtaining tiny material in that bureaucratic way doesn't stand, it's not true. Still these branch leaders have a certain freedom to purchase, have a certain freedom to plan and the rest, but no longer have the possibility of uncontrollable spending of Croatian forest funds. The revenue of the Croatian forests was estimated at the KEFŠ. Yes, 108 million kunas less revenue on this basis because we said we wanted to relieve the economy and we took down as well as the water contribution and we downloaded the forest contribution by 50% with the aim of helping the Croatian economy. We want to be hypocritical on the one hand, say we shouldn't, and on the other hand, we should have kept it. I don't think so. And with these means all that the Croatian forests, which are colleagues who work excellently and professionally their work in the biological restoration of the forest, are maximumly fulfilling tasks. Mentioning 65 million more unfavourable or additional charges in material costs under a collective contract signed a month before the election. And with such reduced revenues, the initial reduced revenue this administration has done three times better business than management before them. Expressed profit of 21 million kuna compared to 2 to 9 million in previous periods. Red, work and responsibility are introduced into Croatian forests. You mentioned advisors. Yeah, there were 53. You were talking about excessive administration and red tape. Yes, these are the people who have been removed from their positions as part of the reorganisation measures and from the benefits of the large salaries they had. Deputy Head of the branch, these places no longer exist by new systematizing jobs. If branch heads work responsibly and in quality, they do not have to have their jobs in that form. Counselors, counselors no longer exist. It is a serious reorganisation of Croatian forests as a company that does its basic work. When we talk about consolidation, in the Croatian forests as a commercial society there were a number of activities that were made of hospitality, forest biomass of everything and everything. Do you know what the core business of the Croatian forests is and how Croatian forests and what their business is and will do better than they have done so far? There is no talk of political staffing and the setting up of the Croatian forests. It's done seriously, it's done responsibly, and it's done with excellent results. We're not satisfied enough yet, because it's very difficult one system that's been working in one way for 20 years to change within a year. But believe me, there's no more use of official cars 24 hours indefinitely at the level of dosumari and lower, no irregularities, no unconscious business, no nearer as before. There's a lot more responsibility, and we'll insist on it. When we talk about the legal solution that the Forest Advisory Service was somehow attached to the Croatian forests, yes, it is not good. And the new Law on Croatian Forests that is in preparation will change that. When we talk about 78% of the state commercial forests which are lords and run by Croatian forests, we know exactly about plans and annual and multi-annual what, how and how we are going to work. The new law will in some way give quality suggestions to put 22% of private forests in an even more appropriate and better form of management. That's where we see the extra possibility. I will agree with my colleague Djurdjevic that one significant problem is almost 48 thousand hectares of our forests still mined. And here together with the Office of Mine Action we have clearly defined plans with secured resources in the Croatian forests to make this demining process as quickly and as best as possible and to spend this wealth that we have put into the most optimal form of management. This is when you spoke of this law as the first step to solving the illegal exploitation of forests and the related trade in wood and products of such wood, we did not say and we did not invent this formulation because we said that it is how we mastered the trees in Croatia. Although that's what he's got. And that's what you're aware of, that in part of the forest, it's illegally and unconsciously mastering itself. He's been cutting on a tree. This is what we are talking about in the part of the regulation that has been transposed from EU legislation, but not only for EU member states, but primarily for wood, or wood mass from third countries, which will enter both the Republic of Croatia and the EU alone. Normally, we, through our inspection services and through our system, will make sure that the Croatian forests are those of state or private masters in the best quality and best way. Another link to the Law on Agricultural Land on which there was a lot of talk in this Visko and the esteemed home. All those who have read the good law have seen that the land fund is part of the land fund and forest land that is not in nature under forests and forests, or that is agricultural land and is now forest economic grounds and will be managed and managed under the Agricultural Land Act with such land. I even think that there was one question, i.e. the answer of an esteemed colleague, regarding such contracts for the multi-annual granting of forest land for the raising of multi-annual plantations is precisely once again indicated. What are really agricultural areas on which vineyards can be built, orchards and olive groves will be managed as agricultural land. Once again related to this law, full compliance with EU legislation, and I think that we have done and predicted everything we need to be much better at protecting and regulating trade in illegally cut trees. As for the Croatian forests, you do not have to worry about your colleague Vinkovic, it will only be better, even more effective, and the results show that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38147	We have seven replicas. Zoran Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38148	Well, here's the Honorable Mr. Minister, after every shift of power, we're hearing about efficiency, about better tomorrow, etc. They attack those exes who said they didn't do anything, so they'll probably tell those who came behind you the same thing about you. However, the situation is obviously not so good. I think you're aware of that, too, that it's not good. As far as the political shift is concerned, I'm responsible for saying that I'm right. If the 16 leaders were replaced by 12, that's 75%, and the 4 others were members of the current Kukuriku coalition, then it's clear. That's what the HDZ was doing, too. If someone was a member of the SDP, he was a forest manager, he was removed and that's the case. And don't turn your head, it's also done. As for the situation, I did not criticise the situation in the Croatian forests at all. I was talking about certain problems that are related to the centralised process that is visible. I don't know when was the last time you were in a certain administration, a certain woodland, so ask around. You have your party colleagues now, you don't have to go far. Go to Vinkovci, and you can see how this works out. They may have higher powers, but those who remain below have no authority whatsoever. And I'm responsible for saying that that's how it is. On the other hand, you haven't answered my most important question, it's the arrival of IKEA. As a member of the government, Minister of Government, I believe you should know about the movement of payment homes, the creation of all possibilities for this company to come, and this company will practically destroy the wood industry in the Republic of Croatia, completely. And we'll have those logs left to drink the logs and rent. We'll be back at that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38149	Replication response, Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38150	Thank you, Vice President. So once again I will repeat Mr Vinkovic's results of these reforms in the Croatian forests show why certain measures have been taken in the reorganisation and restructuring, which is the goal of stabilising the business of society itself and introducing order, work and responsibility. And you will always be the way of those who are dissatisfied, and those who no longer have privileges and those who are against the introduction of order, work and responsibility. This is what you're talking about, I'm not going to talk about political shifts at all because these are people from the system, people who have both professions, and knowledge and quality, and their results already in 2012 show that they are doing better than those who were before. As far as this is concerned, I think it's pretty hypocritical, on the one hand we're saying that we need investments, that this is the only chance of the Republic of Croatia, on the other hand, an individual investment that is large, which is significant, which will open a large number of jobs we're disputed in this way because we're going to help a few hundred meters of the highway billing house. And when you speak about the wood industry and renters as you said wrongly, then you should also take a look at what these same Croatian forests have done a few months ago. They have done what has not existed in the Republic of Croatia for twenty years, they have created a legal framework and an agreement on which the wood industry, Croatia's wooden industry, has been able to provide years of contracts, ten annual contracts with guaranteed quantities, with a precisely defined rabat scale to promote the final and wood products and enable an extremely important sector whose exports are almost a billion dollars a year, the possibility and long-term planning and investment in its further development. The bigger the finale, the added value was the aim of protecting the wood processing sector, so that with all due respect and chickeners and all those who work and half a product with smaller or greater added value really wood growers who have a high level of... are those who have special care and special care and care and the Croatian Forests and Resort Ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38151	Thank you. Injury of Rules of Procedure Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38152	... If it's from the People's Newspaper, then Article 214 is, even though it doesn't define either the one of yesterday's replicas as the minister. [[Specially enabled.]] It also doesn't apply to the minister if he doesn't stick to the subject. So Article 214 and 216 were injured, so I now interpret it both in my own way as you interpreted it yesterday, I'm not asking you to give the minister a warning. I didn't speak uglyly, not at all, I just said that it would bring us back at that time, those bankers, the drinking of the logs, the extraction because the renter is not an ugly word, that's what we say in Slavonia. And I didn't want to offend those people, so I don't know why you guys figured that out. It'll stay from the wood industry with us, that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38153	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38154	And now if moving to the house of charge is hypocrisy, then move them there and there in Slavonia bar to the White Manastir.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38155	Thank you, colleague Vinkovic, you are now responding to the reply to the replica, not to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but we are moving on. A colleague Drazen Đurović is a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38156	Oh, thank you. Well, here's Mr. Minister, you may remember that we as a club have supported the reduction of the KEFŠ fee to half as much as the proposal was to support the economy and we thought that we should really rationalise the situation in the Croatian forests and that there are large reserves. But the word, but the fact that it is visible, there are no big ones, that the personnel shifts that have been made have been done in all public enterprises and also in the Croatian forests and without, and that they are actually those people in the leading places that belong to your political party. The same is now the competition at the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance in full with redefined jobs so that competitions can be cancelled for those who have done the job so far, the manager and put a new one in place. It is the same in the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, it has been done in all public enterprises. It was an opportunity that you had, you took advantage of it and you made it, but then don't run away from it because at first you said you'd take responsibility and place your staff. Now that the shift has taken the scales that are measured by thousands of people in the management posts in the entire public sector and state sector, then it's a little retarded and it's talking about how they're now professional, not party personnel. You're talking about how they managed to establish the savings that are measured in millions of kunas. Well, here's Minister Linic now raising the loan with five billion kunas of rags in the health system, and these dubious ones have been measured in a billion or at least two kunas created in these practically a year and a half, and who therefore answers, who is responsible for that? Is the Minister of Health, does the Director of HZZO, for the dubiouss that are in the billions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38157	The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38158	Thank you, Madam Vice President. About the health and pension system, I won't answer for it because it's not my portfolio, it's not my indigerence, but make sure that what's my portfolio, I'm taking responsibility for everything that's going on. If we talk about Croatian Waters and Croatian Forests, these are institutions, i.e. companies in which a proper, fair, moral and quality way through the results will be seen way of managing and managing. Whether it is in the structure of one of the people who are in the administration or in the leadership of the institutions themselves is not important, the results that work are important. Take another look at how and how we have restructured from the administration itself, how and how the whole package of measures to improve the work of the Croatian forests, if we speak, is designed and what results come out. You are talking about several million, 223 million kuna savings on material costs, over 10% of total revenue or expenditure per year is saving only on material costs, and you can see then how it was managed and spent in these same Croatian forests and these same leaders of 16 administrations who were, in which way they managed to manage the funds, or how irrational it was if we managed to reduce that amount of material costs in a year, and increase the amount and the way we manage with and invest in Croatia's forests. The biological restoration of the forest is a fundamental thing and our task is, we have condemned the forests from our generations to come and we must take care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38159	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38160	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, I don't want to pollute with your opinion. It's your right to have it. But I'd like all of what you said to cover with exact indicators. Well, for example, now you're just like out of 230 million material costs. You should have said what a material cost it was. What kind of species is it and what has not been done in the Croatian forests in the past year? Then we can discuss it. But that's your opinion, I won't take your right to have an opinion. But I want to say something, you've replaced 12 forest management leaders since 16. So the first operatives in the field. Of these 4 remaining 1st is pre-retired, so if he wasn't pre-retired, he'd probably be removed, and then you can't say if you hadn't done the cut of the staff, you changed the entire administration and you didn't set up a classic party structure. But I repeat, when you look at the result of the 2012 business, it's just that everything you're saying doesn't stand. But it's probably under that system I'm not guilty of, but I'm gonna pay the fine and it's rhetoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38161	Replication response, Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38162	Dear colleague Shuker, you'll probably expect me to leave the old administration. I think that as a congregation of Croatian Forests, I have had the right and responsibility to set people who will meet the basic goals that we expect through public policy in forestry. Perhaps if we had left then it would have probably continued the way we work and business and with Fimi Media because we saw that Croatian forests were one of the good business partners and a lot of generous business partners in the former assembly of management towards the company. This is no longer the case in the Croatian forests. I didn't take the data out of my sleeve. A financial report and accounts for 2012 were also made. Which shows these numbers and supports all of this I've said. If necessary in the form of your question we will answer in detail with the full work report of the Croatian Forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38163	Injury of Rules of Procedure Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38164	Now I don't know what article 216 is because Mr. Minister didn't respond, he didn't replicate me, but unfortunately when there are no arguments then he insults and you have the least right to do that because the Committee of Conflict of Interest clearly told you that you were in conflict of interest and that you should pay a fine of 10 thousand kuna. Because if you're not in a conflict of interest, why are you paying the fine?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38165	What kind of replicas are these answers and then we call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38166	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Minister, you're known as the minister with a lot of contradictory statements in a very short time. So you've made a few statements here today that are actually contradictory. You said there was no shift, I'm not going on shifts now, not shifts. After that, you said only 12 of the 16 were changed. I'm interested in the composition of these people. Are these 12 people who are members of the Kukuriku coalition and I don't know now, were they public tenders whether it was an appointment? And what interests me more and I think about, I can't agree with you is what you said centralization is good and that centralization will give a much better effect and that already further better effects. You also mentioned private forest owners. So here I'm going to say that a good project with private forest owners was launched a few years ago, that an alliance of forests with private forest owners was established, that a programme was launched to preserve private forests and that you cut down that program at the very beginning. That wasn't a good move. Private forest owners began to organize, to team up. I think they should be further supported, strengthened, and not now put practical and private forests under the authority of the Croatian forests that they can in principle do nothing on their own. I don't think it's even with some trends in Europe that we should be focusing on too. But here in that part, I don't agree with you as much as I say you give a lot of contradictory statements, so was this one. Would I really be interested in these 12 people how many members of the Kukuriku coalition?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38167	The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38168	Thank you. Dear colleague Hrg, you're talking about legal and sublegal acts that date long before I run this ministry. If you listened closely then I said that it is in preparation to amend the legislation, to prepare a new forest law, to prepare a new law on the processing and use of wood that will change all these faults that have arisen. The advisory service, the forest advisory service is currently in the Croatian forests, it will be an independent institution that will take care of both private forests and state forests in a completely different way. When you're talking about party belongings, i.e. identity cards. We haven't worked like that, and I don't know what to say to you on this data, and these changes within the company have certainly not seen who has, who is a member of which party and who is on which list for which elections and how political points are obtained as was a feature in previous work. The results and expertise of these people and the honesty of these people tell how well they do their job. And it's measurable year after year by year by each administration of those 16 branches will show how well it works. If they are not satisfactory they will go re-election and we say that they are colleagues, foresters, people who have been inside the systems that have worked in these organisational units before. We should keep the model that someone who is once placed should be for all time regardless of whether he is unconsciously doing business, whether he is not transparent or not spending the funds he has in his budget. I don't think so. I don't think so, but I'm sure while I run this resort and while I'm responsible for the work of the Croatian Forests as a congregation of commercial society, that's not how it's going to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38169	A colleague of Mile Horvat's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38170	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I appreciate your efforts to reorganise and improve the work of the Croatian Forests as one of the largest public systems in our country and I know that it is not easy for you. In fact, it has happened several times in the Croatian forests. I remember the time when we paid very big money to get our Irish brains to do it so she didn't do anything. So because it's simply a big, huge system that's had its own stalking rules for years, not only the rules of the profession, but also some other rules that are hard to get into. But what I'm trying to say here, I think we should specifically discuss the relationship between the Croatian forests and small and medium sawmills. Why do I say that? Because Croatian forests are the only resources from which they can draw raw materials or practically work and exist small and medium sawmills. If Croatian forests do not listen to small and medium-sized sawmills and if they behave in the award of raw materials and these contracts that you said they were given for 10 years which is good, if they behave administratively and not practically, then we will have a situation on the ground that many small sawmills because of these administrative criteria and forest relations towards them will simply close down. I'm going to set an example here of Vrbowski. Vrbovska is a small environment and lives only on small sawmills but the fact is that we have three strong sawmills who for years exist and employ twenty people and they couldn't get enough goods to continue to exist as they have so far. On the other hand, someone who privatized the big wood industry and got over 100,000 cc's of hulls and wondered if things couldn't go out and give these little ones something to survive with their 20, 25 workers, but we had to give it to this big one, and we choked these. Therefore, the relationship of Croatian forests as a raw base towards small sawmills is a special topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38171	The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38172	The esteemed colleague Horvat is a new model, a model that has been working for months, including large processors and finalists furniture producers, as well as low-level workers, sawmills and others. No one's completely satisfied with that. I must point out that in the statement of interest and requirements to Croatian forests they were almost three times larger than the actual amount that is being cut annually. Annual increase of wood mass in the Republic of Croatia of 9.2 million metres cubic. Etat that is cut annually in Croatia is about 5.4 million cubic metres of which is 2.6 million cubic metres for logs, and the rest is 2.8 for other wooden products. Why did we put together a model and agree on a 7-degree model and such a rebate scale and the possibility of getting wood material so we wouldn't create ourselves a competition. If only a hull is drunk without any additional work and we take it out then that way we encourage Italian, Austrian, Hungarian, German woodworking industry, which is with our raw materials that is cheaper than raw materials that are not only in the environment but in the EU market, they get raw materials for making which is much more favourable than they would have gotten elsewhere. There is a possibility of correction and we will monitor and do quarterly controls, see how to improve the model itself that is currently in place. Some who in some ways have shown and asked for greater demands than those that are in the high degree of the finale will not need that amount and then we will evenly deploy it to all others who have the request. We will also take into account the regional spread of producers in the wood processing sector to meet the needs of those who have... Croatian forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38173	Thank you very much. Dujomir Marasovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38174	Your Honor, Madam President. Mr. Minister, I won't tell you anything personally you have some problems, I'm not the one who's making you extra to rip your hair long, but something you said deceded you said there's no talk about political staffing in the Croatian forests. I want to elaborate a little bit of the subject in this replica of mine. Mr. Minister, that statement of yours does not stand, it is absolutely beyond the context of the truth of a general event that has happened in Croatia in terms of staffing in the last year and a half. A consensus has been reached in Croatia in previous governments to change 225 people. So who's going to find 225 people when they change every set that led the country in particular, there's not one party in Croatia. We should find a consensus of 225. You've changed, not those 225, but five thousand people. You brought in new people, you shouldn't have fired these old ones, and that's why he collected the cost of state administration, and you're reducing nurses in hospitals. Don't say there's no political staffing, you're all politically involved. They would also excavate the archbishop if Bozanic were to retire accidentally and that you could, as you have excavated Croatian television in a political way. Unfortunately, you've put in the last secretary of the SCOY who's now running Partisan films on the '45 Boška Buha. Next, maybe if there were some in the bunkers and some in the war to put it on. It's terrible what you've done, but not because of those five thousand jobs, I don't care, let people work and let them pay. You know what the problem is, I am convinced that it is a public sector and that this crisis is that political memory is to a good extent the cause of the inability to leave the economic crisis because the public sector is blocked, there are no capable people precisely because of this policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38175	I don't know how you got from forest to television, but good. The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina. [[Intruder: No, not because it was said that there was no political staffing.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38176	Dear fellow, my portfolio is really wide, except for agriculture, the food industry, it's forests and water, but the radiotelevision isn't at my place yet, so I really can't give you an adequate answer to your replica or thinking. But once again, I will say everything that is done in the Croatian forests, in the forestry and wood industry, is aimed at helping wood growers to stabilise and quality preparation, better conditions for their production and in the Croatian forest society with the aim of improving the business of the Croatian forests. As the Law on Forests, as well as the mission and vision of the Croatian Forests Society speaks, it is a quality management of state forests. The other thing is actually profitability. Croatian forests are companies, unfortunately so far they were a social institution and a employment office. According to what you are saying most now and on the political line, none of you referred to the fact that in 2003 in the Croatian Forests there were 40 employees in the Directorate and the moment I became minister and took over management and this resource almost 180 people. In less than 10 years, a bureaucratic apparatus was created that could at no time sit in the administration building, but they multiplied, multiplied, and found new jobs. It wasn't the people in the field who were employed, it wasn't the people who were working and taking care of the woods, it was the bureaucracy. 53 advisors and so on. These are people who will no longer work in the Croatian forests. That way, in those places that have worked so far. We have taken full and complete responsibility for Croatian forests and the results they will achieve from year to year will show that we are in the right direction. Whether one of these people is a member of a party or not is not so important, it is important whether they have a result and whether they implement all those goals with the goal of better management of Croatian forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38177	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this law later. Given the time we announced the 12 o'clock vote, I'm giving a short recess. At 12 o'clock, please meet me in the hall and we'll vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38178	Final draft law implementing the EU regulation on trade in illegally visited wood and products of such wood, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 332 The debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Score. I find that it is unanimous with 108 votes for the adopted Law implementing EU regulations on trade in illegally visited wood and products of such wood in the text as proposed by the applicant. Following elections, appointments and resolutions. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of Mr Sim Luchin to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38180	Thank you very much. At its 21st session, colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs identified the following. First, the proposal for a decision on the selection of members and the termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament. One, for a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament, Gordan Jandroković is elected. Under two, on 16 January 2013, a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Milljan Brkic for the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38181	I am voting on a proposal for a decision. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision was reached unanimously with 103 votes in favour. Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of member of the Committee on Croatians outside the Croatian Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38182	Thank you very much. So, for the member of the board of Croatians outside the Croatian Parliament, Marija Rapo is elected. Two, on 16th January 2013, the member of the Croatian Committee's office outside the Croatian Parliament stops acting as Milljan Brkic for the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38183	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? Score. I find it unanimous with 103 votes for the proposed decision. Next, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38184	Thank you. The proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament will continue. One is elected Dr. Miroslav Tudjman. Two, on 16th January 2013, a member of the Croatian Parliament's War Veterans Committee ceases to act as Millian Brkic for his term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38185	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? Score. I find that, unanimously with 102 votes, a proposed decision has been made. Next, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38186	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of members of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and Nature of the Croatian Parliament. For a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of the Croatian Parliament Đurđica Sumrak is elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38187	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion for a vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision was reached unanimously with 101 votes. Next, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38188	Thank you. Proposal for a Decision on the election of president and termination of the term of office of president of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament. One is elected Franjo Lucic for the head of agriculture of the Croatian Parliament. Two, on March 22, 2013 The position of the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament ceases to be held by Petar Cobankovic for his term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38189	I'm closing the debate. I'm opening a debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision was reached unanimously with 101 votes in favour. Next, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38190	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and election of the Vice-President of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament. The post of Vice-President of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament, Franjo Lucic, is hereby resolved. Two, Branko Kuti is elected vice-president of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38191	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision has been reached unanimously with 102 votes in favour. Next, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38192	Proposal for a decision on the election of the Vice-President and the termination of the term of office of the Vice-President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament. 1 for the Vice-President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament is elected Đurdjica Sumrak, 2 days 16 January 2013 the responsibility of the Vice-President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament has ceased to act as Milljan Brkic for the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38193	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision has been reached unanimously with 102 votes in favour. Next, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38194	Proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of a member of the National Council for Water. A member of the National Council for Water from the ranks of prominent scientists and experts in the field of water management shall be relieved of the duties of a member of the National Council of Water and of experts in the area of water management and related areas shall be appointed Marijan Jurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38195	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision has been reached unanimously with 102 votes in favour. And the final point.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38196	Decision to appoint members and to suspend the term of office of members of the State Commission for the assessment of damages from natural disasters. For members of the State's Commission for the Assessment of damages from natural disasters from the ranks of MPs, Dragan Crnoorac and Šimo Djurdjevic are named. The responsibility of the members of the State Commission for the assessment of damages from the elemental accidents in the order of MPs has ceased to behave Ivo Vuković on 1st of October 2012 due to the rest of the parliamentary term and Mr Petar Čobanković on 22nd March 2013 due to the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38197	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the proposed decision. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 103 votes for the proposed decision. Congratulations to all the chosen, and I wish them a lot of success in their work. Now we're going to stop doing this session. We will continue on Tuesday at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on forest reproductive material. Thank you all and have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 13.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38198	Selection, appointments and resolutions. I'd like the chairman of the Committee of Honorable Shim Luchin to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38199	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament set out the following proposals for a decision at its 22nd session. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and selection of a member of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament is hereby dismissed as a member of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament, Zvonko Milas. Davor Milicevic is elected member of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38200	Thank you very much. .../The speaker went off and then turned on./... There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please make a statement. Who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 112 votes for the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. Next.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38201	Proposal for a Decision on the resolution and selection of the Vice-President and the resolution of the members of the Committee on Health and Social Care of the Croatian Parliament. The post of Vice-President of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament Davor Milinović, Darko Milinovic, is hereby resolved. Two. Dr Dujomir Marasovic is elected vice-president of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. And three. A member of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Dr Dujomir Marasovic, is dismissed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38202	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 112 votes for the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38203	Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of the president and election of the chairman of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. The president of the Committee for Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament Jadranka Kosor is hereby dismissed. Darko Milinović is elected president of the Committee for Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38204	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 111 votes in favour and 1 abstentions have been taken by the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. Next.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38205	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. The responsibilities of members of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the Strategy for the Prevention of Corruption, Jadranka Kosor, shall be resolved for a member of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, Ana Lovrin is elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38206	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 111 votes in favour and 1 abstentions were decided in the text as proposed by the committee. Let's go to the choice and appointments and resolutions. I would like the representative of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Honored Representative, Sim Lucin, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. The selection, appointment and administrative work of the Croatian Parliament at its 23rd session held on 19 June set out the following proposals for decisions. First, the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Vice-President and the election of the Vice-President and the resolution of the member and the election of a member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. First, the Vice-President of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Zdravko Ronko, is hereby dismissed. Two, the President of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament is elected Dunja Špoljar. Three, a member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Dunja Špoljar as a member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament, is hereby elected Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38209	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 92 votes, a proposed decision has been made. Please proceed with the chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38210	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. Ivana Posavec Krivec is elected as a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. On 3 June 2013, a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament ceased to act as Zlatko Komadin for his term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38211	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Thank you. Is anyone restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 91 votes for the proposed decision. Please continue, Mr. President-in-Office of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38212	Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of elections, a member, a member of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament, Nada Turin-Đurić of two, is hereby elected member of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament, Sonja Köning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38213	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Is anyone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 90 votes in favour. Please proceed to the President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38214	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament is elected Darko Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38215	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 89 votes for the proposed decision. I beg you further, Mr. President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38216	Proposal for a Decision on the election of president and termination of the term of office of president of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament. Zdravko Ronko is elected president of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament. On 3 June 2013, the chairman of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly stopped acting as Zlatko Komadin for the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38217	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, 88 votes have been voted in favour of the proposed decision. I'd like to speak to the esteemed president.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38218	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the Vice-President and termination of the term of office of the Vice-President of the Committee for the Protection of the Environment and Nature of the Croatian Parliament. Damir Mateljan is elected vice-president of the Committee for Environmental Protection and Nature of the Croatian Parliament. On 3 June 2013, the president of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Željko Kolar for his term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38219	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimously with 86 votes for the proposed decision. Please proceed to the President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38220	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee for Election, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, Lidija Bagarić is elected as a member of the Committee for Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. On 3 June 2013, a member of the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament ceased to act as Željko Kolar for his term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38221	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 86 votes for the proposed decision. Please continue, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38222	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament, as a member of the Committee on Local and Regional, the Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament is elected Ada Damjanac. On 3 June 2013, a member of the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Zlatko Komadin for his term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38223	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find it unanimous with 85 votes for the proposed decision. I beg you further, Mr. President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38224	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of an external member of the Council of the Croatian National Bank. The external member of the Council of the Croatian National Bank of Dr. Sandra Švaljek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38225	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 86 votes for the proposed decision. Congratulations to all the chosen and I wish them success in the work, in the working bodies where they were elected or in the bodies they entered. Now we stop working till Wednesday. We will begin at 9.30 on Wednesday, 26th of this month and this year with the agenda Final draft legislation on co-operation or better on relations between the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs, is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, and then we continue as it is notified in the agenda. Not yet, it will be, it will be put on your website. I want you to rest. I'll see you Wednesday. I'm asking them to take care of the committees on Monday.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38226	Point - Elections, appointments and resolutions I would like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of Mr Sim Lučin to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38227	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Parliamentary Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs at its 24th session established a proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Vice Governor of the Croatian National Bank and the termination of the term of office of external members of the Croatian National Bank. For Vice Governor of the Croatian National Bank, the name is Bojana Fras and Michael Fauland. Two. The current members of the Croatian National Bank Council have ceased their mandate by joining the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38228	Thank you. I'm making a proposal for a decision to adopt. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes with 78 votes in favour, 6 against and 1 abstentions were decided on the appointment of the Vice-Governor of the Croatian National Bank and the termination of the term of office of outside members of the Croatian National Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38229	And now we'll move on to choice and resolution. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs, a respected colleague, Sim Lucin, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38230	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. The 25th session of the Croatian Parliament's selection, appointment and administrative affairs committee set out the following proposals for decisions. So the proposal for a decision on the election of a member and the termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament is elected Gordana Sobol. Second, on 1 July 2013, a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament ceases to act as Tonino Picula for the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38231	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. Who's calling? No one. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the proposed decision has been taken unanimously, with 112 votes in favour. Please continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38232	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. Nenad Dance is elected as a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee. On 1 July 2013, a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee ceases to act as Nikola Vuljanic for his term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38233	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been taken unanimously, with 111 votes in favour. We can continue with the Honorable President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38234	Thank you. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on European Integration of the Croatian Parliament. President Daniel Mondekar, Vice President Gordan Jandroković, members of Dr. Davor Bozinović, Dr. Martina Dalic, Dr. Iron Srecko Flego, Damir Mateljan, Frano Matušić, Melita Mulić, Tonino Picula, mr. Andrej Plenkovic, mr. Jozo Radoš, Davor Ivo Stier, Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38235	I'm opening a debate. Who's calling? No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I confirm that it is unanimous with 111 votes for the proposed decision. Continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38236	The next is the proposal for a decision on the election of the president, vice president, members of the European Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Daniel Mondekar, Vice-President Gordan Jandroković and Mr. Jozo Radosh. For members of Dragica Zgrebec, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Peđa Grbin, Igor Radjenović, Dr. Romana Jerkovic, Damir Mateljan, Igor Coleman, Dr. Milorad Pupovac, Dr. Davor Bozinović, Dr. Martina Dalic, Frano Matušić, Tomislav Klaric, Branko Vukšić and Boro Grubišić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38237	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 111 votes for the proposed decision. We can move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38238	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Tanja Vrbat and Melita Mulić are elected members of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. On 1 July 2013, a member of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament was suspended by Biljani Borzana and Tonina Piculi for putting the term of office in office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38239	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please state who's in favour? Does anyone mind? Does anyone have any abstentions? What's the score? I find it unanimous with 111 votes for the proposed decision. Please continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38240	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament Branko Vukšić is hereby dismissed. Zlatko Tušak is elected member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38241	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 111 votes for the proposed decision. Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38242	Proposal for a decision on the election of the president and the termination of the term of office of the president and the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament is elected by Dr. On 1 July 2013, Romana Jerkovic, president of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament, stopped acting as Biljana Borzan for holding the parliamentary term. The duties and members of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament are hereby resolved. Romana Jerkovic is elected as a member of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament. Mirjana Zivko.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-19-0.u38243	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 111 votes for the proposed decision. I congratulate my colleagues and colleagues on their new assignments, their duties.
