ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59687	Dear fellow MPs in the Croatian Assembly, distinguished fellow MPs, good morning! We continue with the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia, respected Zoran Milanovic, Finance Minister Slavko Linic, associates. In today's agenda, we have - Proposal for a State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014, with a projection proposal for 2015 and 2016; - Proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2014 Financial Plans, with a proposal for projections for 2015 and 2016: (a) Croatian Waters, (a) Croatian Roads, (a) Centre for restructuring and sale, (a) Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund, (a) State Deposit Insurance Agency and Bank Rehabilitation; - Proposal for the State Budget and Financial Plans for the extra-profit users for 2014, with a proposal for projections for 2015 and 2016; consolidated. The Proposer of the Budget is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for the Budget Act into the boxes. The adoption of the State budget shall be subject to the provisions of Articles 211, 212 and 213. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links, the Committee on Law, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Education, Science, Science and Culture, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Physical Planning and Construction. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. I remind you of Article 38. The budget law whereby all amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed state budget and projections must not exceed the amount of the permitted lack of state budget and projections. In the course of the debate on the State Budget Proposal, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out in the draft state budget and projections may be submitted provided that a reduction of other expenditure in a specific part of the budget is proposed at the same time. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. In this regard, I warn that only those amendments submitted under the Budget Law will be sent to the parliamentary procedure. The deadline for submitting the amendments to the state budget is Thursday, tomorrow, November 28th until 1400 hours. Article 212 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are determined not to be able to vote on the amendments submitted and the Budget as a whole before three days after the debate. I call on Croatian Prime Minister, respected Zoran Milanovic, to give an opening statement. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59688	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs and MPs. As Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, I will present to you the proposal of the State budget for 2014 with indications and guidelines for 2015 and 2016. I will also present the political and economic context of the establishment of the budget proposal for next year, as well as the basic political, economic and human beliefs that we have led this key state document. Of course, I'm going to ask you to support this budget, but I'm not going to ask for support just because it suggests democratic procedures and customs. I will ask for support because I believe that the policy we are leading is responsible and to the end of the debate on the necessity of taking measures that will ultimately bring our country and society's functioning into line with the possibilities, potentials and needs. This draft budget reflects such policies but also the consequences of the debts that we know must be recovered. Croatia, as we know, has lived beyond its means for years. The state was expensive, sometimes unnecessarily in debt, and the purpose of this borrowing and preservation of reality under the carpet was to acquire part of the political body and part of the union, and to alienate public money, money that we otherwise pay dearly to credit institutions. And it'll take so long. Unresponsible and unreasonable debt in times before recession but also in the middle of recession has largely paralyzed the country in a more successful manner with the effects of almost five years of global economic crisis or stagnation. By the end of this year, our public debt will grow to 195 billion kuna. Serving this debt is the biggest and most concrete weight in the effort to definitely rely on our feet as soon as possible and to get out of the crisis. Strong credit pressure is causing a new unfavourable debt to cover the budget deficit. In 2014, we planned a budget expenditure of 130 billion and 500 million kuna while the planned revenue was 113 billion and 100 million kuna. So our budget deficit is going to be greater than 17 billion kuna, which is an increase of at least one billion kuna from this year. It's going to be a 5% of GDP deficit. In 2015, the deficit will be either 4.2% of GDP, and 3% in 2016. For the 2011 comparison, the deficit was 7.8% and this was not comparable to lower expenditure on the service of credit obligations. At the level of the general government, the deficit will be up by half a percentage point compared to these figures. It is our obligation towards the EU to reduce the budget deficit below or up to 3% and we intend to do so within the next three years. In 2015 and 2016 budget expenditure will be additionally increased up to 134 billion and 300 million kuna in 2016. In addition to the debt payments mentioned, the reasons for the increase in expenditure lies in the cost of membership in the Union, in training for the use of European funds, and in the recovery of the health system and shipbuilding. The reduction of public debt and budget deficits is not only our obligation to the Union, it is actually a prerequisite for the more serious growth of our economy. It is only when we reduce our debts, and I repeat our debts that we have to pay back, and when we stop borrowing to this extent in order to be able to repay previous credit obligations, we can count on economic stability, continuity of economic growth and new jobs. And just now new jobs, new jobs as good as possible are our main goal. In order to achieve this, our Government must consolidate public finances in parallel and implement measures to promote sustainable growth. These two jobs are well contradictory. The consolidation of public finances makes it difficult and slows down the implementation of economic recovery measures, i.e. a new rise and employment and vice versa. Therefore, much of the government's activities and thinking consists of looking for the best ratio, the balance between these two basic definitions, these two basic definitions of our economic policy. When I talk about balance, I think first of all about keeping an eye on the avoidance of social breakdowns and additional decomposition. It is our firm principled commitment that the process of reforming the state administration and the greater the extent to which recovery and growth of the private economic sector should take place, as well as to address the difficult state of public finances. It will never question the level of social rights of the most exposed categories of our citizens. On the contrary, we reform and improve the social benefits system in order to really go to those who need it the most. It'll never come to the question of paying off workers' pensions. Although we must reform it, our pension system is stable. There will never be questionable invalidity pensions and benefits, however, we will reduce pensions paid under special regulations, are more than 5,000 kuna. We will maintain a high level of health care, but we will immediately start to restructure and rationalise the hospital system that is difficult to sustain in the current form. There will be no threat to the right to free education of those who wish to learn as well as state aid in the education of socially endangered and deprived, but also in the coming year we will implement a reform of primary and secondary school systems. This system must be and will be much more rational and quality than it is today. To learn always, but to invest in the mind of invaluable things. It's not the same as 40 years ago today. We protect and protect all sustainable rights of defenders and victims of the Homeland War. When we talk about balance, I mean certainly the dynamics of structural reforms and changes. The dynamics in our opinion must be consistent with the opportunities and properties of our economy and our society. The consolidation of public finances in a broader sense involves the introduction of labour and legality into financial operations, a more orderly collection of taxes and corrections in the tax system, and reforms, savings and rationalisation in the state and public sector. Consolidation also involves privatising part of state property that is not a strategic character, is not of national interest, especially in the tourism sector. When I say it's not of national interest, it's not of strategic national interest. Part of the state property will be given through a concession tender, and we also think about the highways we built in the most expensive way possible because we needed them at the time. So here we are no longer in a position to use European funds unlike other countries or to take Chinese or I don't know what loans we have, but it is very burdensome for us. The roads are here and roads must be managed in such a way as not to burden Croatian construction and Croatian budgets. The process will be intensely intensified in the year ahead. In the area of consolidation of finance, the government has made visible shifts, but business is not even done from close range. We will continue to insist on fiscalisation, strict tax discipline, collection of tax debts, pre-banking deals, resolution of liquidity and the fight against the grey-black economy. By the end of the year, the central wage accounting system will be fully developed. This means that in the first half of the following year, the largest number of budget beneficiaries will be paid through a central system which will finally give the state a single record of all employees in the state and public sector and their incomes. Technologically, this was possible 10 years ago. That's what we have today. In addition to the comprehensive reforms in the health, pension, education and social system and in the system of state administration reforms that will be implemented in 2014 and 2015, we are reorganising and forming state institutions on the ground, and we are facing a serious reform of the judicial network. The aim of these reforms and changes is to make the system more rational in order to be more efficient, to give more for the same amount invested. For some reforms, results come faster and can be seen immediately, and some take time and patience both for implementation and for more visible results. Since the beginning of next year, we will further streamline and where possible bring together state agencies without prejudice to the rights of local self-government and their reduction. Many of them are the obligations arising from our EU membership but this does not mean that they are not expected to be rational in business and to be spent. The VAT on tourism and catering services will be raised from 10% to 13% of the rate, which remains less than the overall VAT rate, which is 25% and leaves the potential for these sectors to grow and develop. There was a dilemma about this, about the justice and purpose of this measure, but it remains. In all ministries, agencies, state and public enterprises, restructuring and rationalisation takes place. The farthest distance has gone in railways, since, highways, highways Rijeka-Zagreb, HEP, waters and forests. From the budget financing system, we will separate certain activities such as health care, education, justice, social care and science. As regards recovery and growth of the economy, 6 is the main points of government engagement, first public investments, second removal of administrative barriers to direct investment, third tax policy, fourth direct boost in the private sector, 5th European funds and 6th, not least well-organised and functional economic diplomacy. Next year, the realisation of concrete public investment will begin primarily in the sectors of energy, rail, road and air transport and the water economy. In the financing of infrastructure projects, we will rely as much on European funds as possible. We raise the use of money from these funds to a higher level and rate, i.e. the percentage of their realisation is for every country not only for Croatia a measure of success. I remind you that we have shortened a number of administrative procedures and introduced many tax reliefs for direct investment, especially in the field of strategic investment. They changed and passed new laws. We've reduced the health contribution by 2% points. So we returned or retained about 2 billion kunas to the economy. We have abolished the profit tax that is being reinvested, also a dubious and short-term harmful measure from the point of view of the state budget's income. But we believe in good in the medium term. So we freed private companies a billion and 200 million kunas of potential. We have abolished or reduced a number of parafiscal burdens, which meant an additional 675 million kuna to the economy, and we continue in the following year with a reduction or elimination of parafiscal burdens that there are many. We've increased the threshold for entering the VAT system to 230 thousand kuna. In the following year, we will help directly to recover private companies and crafts through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship HAMAG INVESTA and the state will not continue to ignore strong incentives for companies from those economic areas for which we will jointly assess that they have a serious export and investment perspective. Someone will accuse or label this as a choice of winners in the competition, which would not be state business but unfortunately, or fortunately, every country does it in some way. We will use and use mechanisms that should encourage the banking sector to more generous and favourable lending of precisely such companies. We have established a committee to internationalise the Croatian economy which defines the guidelines of Croatian export policy and coordinates all investments in the promotion of our economy abroad. Together with exporters, the priority foreign markets have no doubt that the effects of these efforts will soon be seen both in the arrival of foreign investors and in the exit of our companies. Everything I've exhibited gives us the right to expect a definitive exit from the crisis over the next three years at an annual rate of 1.3 to 2.5%. Much less than it used to be a long time ago, but much more so given the expected structure of that growth. In other words, in the next two or three years, the Croatian economy will be on a healthier footing. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to support this draft budget. And as I said at the beginning, I don't want you to support or refuse to support this document for your party's belongings or loyalty or any other prosaic or less prosaic reasons. I call on you to take the decision in this proposal with common sense and responsibility entrusted to us all by the citizens. I think it's time for that. It's time to give up the childish policy of closing our eyes to problems that we used to tend to do continuously. It's time to stop relying on miracles and economic tricks and all the other tricks. It's for the kids. For the next two, three years, we will continue openly and responsibly to face the creation that has been suppressed for a long time, and therefore the neurosis is today. It won't be easy for us because the consequences of years of responsibility and deception are serious. To this government, it is perfectly clear to my government that the process of sobering cannot be avoided or skipped. We are doing everything possible to make the period of denial and putting the country on sound economic foundations as short as possible and to make it as painless as possible for a large number of our people. We believe in the patience and understanding of Croatian citizens and I am deeply convinced that this patience and understanding but also the willingness to change in society and within ourselves will soon prove to be the smartest investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59689	Thank you, Your Honor, Prime Minister. We've got replicas first, everything's fine. Let's go with the replicas. The first is the respected Josip Salapic, a representative. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59690	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, common sense suggests that you are having a really difficult time and that the economic, financial opportunities in the country are disastrous. We also saw the European Commission's report on the deficit of the state budget, where a report was asked of Croatia, which will be in projections for the next two years and on the great deficit under this proposal of 17,5 billion kuna. You said you took responsibility and that you were responsible for implementing the policy you presented now in your presentation. What's most important is calling for the state to spend over the years, that's what you knew when you waited eight years to come to power. And you got a chance from the citizens at... Plan 21. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what's being announced there today is completely different from that. And what you, as Prime Minister, must admit, has been ruled by one general depression in society, pessimism. Even this 2014 budget invites us all to support it. We will discuss this discreetly but you as a responsible politician must nevertheless admit that Croatia should not be depressed in the first days of the European Union. If you say there is a responsibility, and there is an increase in the number of unemployed up to 400,000 people, from day to day people leave Croatia in Canada, they are looking for a job for a better opportunity. We heard yesterday that more than a hundred, more doctors left Croatia for a better job. You do not recognise that there is a need for dialogue on some important national issues because all topics have become important except for the most important ones, which is the economy and jobs. I'm not calling you a representative of the opposition here, but as a representative who should support those who sent him to the Assembly, so I'm asking you to do it immediately in a reasonable way in the time ahead, there's not three years of time to get out of the crisis, because your mandate takes another two years, if you had to have painful cuts, because this cutting and killing creates a little bit of general depression, and I think you as a responsible politician and prime minister are in charge of stopping it, and no one is going to...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59691	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Second replica of the respected representative of Kresimir Bubal. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59692	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, President of the Parliament. In fact, the Prime Minister spoke of a responsible policy, but it is an irresponsible task. In 2008, the public debt was 100 billion kuna... 200 billion kuna and we owe generations to come, but in this borrowing we see no development of Slavonia and Baranja. Looking at the 2014 budget projections, 451 million were foreseen, but now that we're looking at the actual budget, we see that it's only 203 million kuna. We are concerned about investment in Slavonia and Baranja, but also about the deficit of 17 billion, and we do not see Slavonia and Baranja in that deficit. Therefore, policies need to change, but when we talk about new jobs that are your goal, you just said that, we see only the tendency of an increasing number of unemployed, and they are already over 355,000 unemployed. We expect the budget to be cut on the spending side, but not on Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59693	Thank you very much. The third replica of the respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59694	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, you are well-started in your 2014 budget statement, as well as in the 2015 and 2016 projections. I really don't know where you're coming from or what you're getting your optimism on. And then you talked about the consolidation of public finances and the introduction of order. But with your politics and your actions you really put in order, or rows, in front of the soup kitchens, in front of Caritas, in front of the FINA counters because of the blocked accounts, in front of the Employment Service. I believe if you carry on like this, each of us will surely find himself in one of those lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59695	Thank you, too. We're going to the replica of respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59696	Dear Mr. Milanovic, Prime Minister, you said the government would privatise all companies that are not of national interest, so I wonder how this property of banks, i.e. the only Croatian larger bank, the Croatian Post Bank is not of national interest. The second sentence that intrigued me is when you said we should stay away from economic tricks. It's for the kids. Is everything that's been cut off with your concept of the economy a children's game? However, this male serious game of yours does not yield results.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59697	Thank you very much. Fifth Replica, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59698	Thank you very much. In the history of the Croatian Parliament, the shortest explanation and proposal for the state budget, and never more difficult the situation and the greater deficit, and everything can be reduced to two statements: we will all sell out and raise taxes. So that's a fact and it'll all lead to a 18.5 billion kuna deficit. However, I would like to tell you something, and if that were not my invention, that is this document, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, which you sent to the Croatian Parliament, which is called the State Budget Finance Account. You said irresponsible borrowing. All international financial institutions have admitted that in 2008, Croatia had a share of public debt in GDP of 28% and a deficit of the state budget of 0.8%. That was before the crisis. You inherited the state with a share of public debt in GDP 42%, at the end of this year the share of public debt in GDP is 60%, and if you fail, and I sincerely hope you fail to sell out state property, the share of public debt in GDP will be around 63.64% this year. These are facts, these are mathematical data that no political rhetoric can change. In the end, this also tells you the Law on the implementation of the state budget where it is clear in Article 27 that you will be in debt 40 billion next year, of which 18 billion, and that is what increases public debt, and not these 40 is the financing of your deficit. And secondly, this central salary account, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, has welcomed you all for waiting three years, why didn't you start right away?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59699	Thank you very much. A new replica, a respected representative of Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59700	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister. In the past 23 years, Croatia has never been faced with such a difficult economic situation, and in this 23 years, it is unlikely that this Assembly has come before it is less reformal and more cowardly budget proposal. You said on several occasions in your short speech that debts must return, and the result of that speech is this and next year you plan new debts of 5 billion euros. You think a new 5 billion-euro debt with more and more interest will fix or worsen our investment rating? There's no reform. In this way, the sole culprit for the collapse of the national economy will be you, the sole culprit for the 400,000-dollar unemployment, namely, we had a brief debate right here about unemployment. Today is 356 000. Ten, eleven years ago it was 420,000. In the meantime, however, tens of thousands of young people ended up outside Croatia or today, unfortunately, they would also be on the market. Nicely you've bureaucratically listed all the measures and all the things you've done and planned to do. But do you wonder why there is no result? The results are completely contrary to the last two years of your plans. And let me finish. Two months ago you said you had bad news for pessimists, it'd be better. A few days ago, you said you publicly shrugged your shoulders, amazingly easy to admit failure, and you said the next two years would be difficult. Make up your mind how it's gonna be, it's gonna be better or it's gonna be harder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59701	Thank you, too. Seven replicas and a respected representative. You want to answer? Yes, go ahead. No, no, no. Stay where you are, please. You have two minutes of honor, Prime Minister. Replication response, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59702	I'm not going to profit from our numbering, I'm going to have to trust someone in the end. I'm not going to say now that some of the numbers are important, and you've said them completely incorrect, but I'm going to invite you to do a simple thing. Make an alternative draft budget and only in strategic points, you don't have to deal with all the fine details and classes. Just say what you do, you don't. That's what I want to know. This is what the entire Croatian public is interested in. So, which debts you do not repay, which loans you do not repay, which you do not fulfil and indicate where and in which segments this budget is wastefully, populistly, where it adds up. That's not a lot of work. That even your party, which in two years, not three years, has changed a little, has not had one and a half legislative proposals in this House in two years. That shouldn't even be a problem for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59703	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the replicas. The Honorable Vice President of Parliament, Željko Reiner, and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59704	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, if you had delivered such a speech at the beginning of your term two years ago, many of us, as well as Croatian citizens, might have believed you. After two years, no one believes it. In your speech, in general, you have used many expressions to begin, plan, etc. One we will rely on stronger on European funds. And what are the results? Nothing withdrawn from the European funds this year. What are the results? 356,000 unemployed. What are the results? This year, the historicly largest deficit of the state budget. So again I say what's in this document are numbers, and the figures say that you plan to create a deficit of 17 and a half billion, it'll probably turn out a lot more, that you plan to exceed the deficit of over 60% of GDP. You plan all this with a growth of the economy from 1.3 to 2.5%, which is completely unrealistic, because you've planned for 2012 and 2013 as well, and it's been a fall. So based on what? Based on what unwarranted optimism can we believe in fine words? Instead of seeing how you will achieve an increase in productivity because it is the problem of the Croatian state, how you will achieve an increase in investment. This is the problem of the Croatian state. We didn't hear any of that. All we've heard are nice plans and good wishes without cover. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59705	Thank you, too. New replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59706	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, you know I come from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, which is completely traffic-insulated. She's particularly isolated these days because of the weather. Two days closed Dubrovnik Airport, no ships, no catamarans, and the Croatian government has done nothing over the past two years to improve this traffic isolation. Two years of Croatian highways failed to complete 9km of highway from Vrgorec to Ploč. For two years, the government has not yet established itself against transport links, two years we expect the European Commission to tell us what is the most favourable solution for connecting Dubrovnik-Neretva County. We don't know. The government doesn't have a position on the Peles Bridge. I'm asking you, Mr. President, how come there's not a single kuna in the State budget for 2014 for a better transport connection between the Dubrovnik-Neretva County. We don't know what's gonna happen to the Peles Bridge. We don't know if we're going to continue to build a highway to Dubrovnik, whether we're going to build a fast road, whether we're going to invest in an airport. So, according to part of Croatia that is completely cut off from the rest of the country, which is traffic-insulated, which represents the only exclave in the EU, this government has no hearing to single out a single kuna in the state budget to contribute to a better life for the citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59707	Thank you, too. Replica reply, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59708	Mr. Representative, you're doing everything you can to kill the little faith in those people. And every time Paul's reflex, it's always the same story. Traffic isolation, sadness, trouble. So in Dubrovnik it is more complicated to live than in Zagreb it is clear, but in a way more beautiful. But it's far from Zagreb, look at the map. Have you ever seen a map? Croatia stretches 600km of thanks to God as no other country, and in that sense it is demanding, but Dubrovnik Airport had traffic this year from a little less than 2 million passengers, people, not potatoes, people who come down from Croatia and foreigners. I guess they're coming to do some work, spend something. So isolation is a relative term. And I'll tell you again what our plans are. I think they're real. So, the sand bridge that you haven't removed from the site, maybe something else has been removed, but the bridge in the building sense is not structural, we're going to try to build European funds. This means that we will not be in debt and that we believe that we will be able to obtain most of the money from the funds of the organization of which we are members and which we are paying relatively high membership fees. We're going back to that story. Therefore, public investment, successful transition states and now already several-year EU members are trying to completely reroute to European funds. It's a measure of success. How successful we'll be, I don't know, but I have a hunch we'll be successful. And to say that we do not have a strategy for the transport connection between Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik to Croatia is, I have no words at all. So we do it the other way. You're saying that these negotiations were conducted diplomatically by someone other than this government and Croatian diplomacy older than this and the future Croatian government. We'll see what the results are. And you can be clear, and you can be constructive.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59709	Thank you very much. The ninth replica and respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59710	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, Minister, after two years of your term of office, it is clear from this draft budget that both as Prime Minister and as Government, you have given up our financial sovereignty. You're putting our finances in the hands of European bureaucrats. Unfortunately, that's the truth and the fact. Without any resistance you agree to this excessive deficit procedure, you do not want to take responsibility for Croatian citizens, you simply extradite them to European bureaucrats. Just so a man doesn't believe it. With so little resistance already in the first year of EU membership. This has never happened before in any EU member state. Not to talk about an unfair relationship to the economy. You raise tourism VAT to 13%, you make it in the long run uncompetitive for 300 million kuna while another industry like telecommunications with total incomes of 15 billion kunas releases profits and large profits. It is clear that with this budget Croatian citizens will live harder next year and will have less third year in a row. That's the total opposite of what you promised them in 2011. It's a fraud!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59711	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Replica response, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59712	I apologize for laughing at me while you were talking. There's a point where demagogy goes into the sketch. So this was a sketch worth the best BBC production, so I'm asking if this is a sketch or if you really mean what you said? Because you're a member of the HDZ Club. So you are talking about resistance to the European Commission in the excessive deficit procedure. I'm sorry, which one of you... Are you coming? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to ask you that. Resistance, and in the first year, what resistance, armed resistance to the European Commission? That's what you said and not once. You really believe in this, therefore, that it is a shame that Croatia does not resist the European Commission in the first year of membership and that I support that further that we have surrendered to the hands of European bureaucrats. Who? The Janitor? Look, I'm sorry, but that's very funny. That's funny. So this is the point about which in the Croatian Parliament, and it is not every week and every month, the most shallow demagogy has become a sketch. That was funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59713	A new replica of the respected MPs of Mirale Holy. ... Allow me, please. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59714	Well, unlike colleagues who had previous replicas, I will support the budget and I want to say that I think it is a good thing that among the reforms announced by the government for this year the public sector reform, or public administration, is also mentioned because this is a key reform that the government is successful by the end of the term of office. Namely, unless it succeeds with any other reform but if it succeeds with public administration reform, this government will succeed. That's what I'd like to mention and why I think I have the right to claim something like that. A while ago, not too long ago, a daily newspaper released a comment from the director of the World Bank for the Republic of Croatia, who otherwise came from Korea, saying that the success of the reform of Korea is now resting on public sector reform. For what? Because the success of all other reforms depends on public sector reform. Because if you don't make this fundamental tool for any other reform, then there won't be success in any other reform. In this regard, I am pleased that, in this reasoning of the State budget for 2014 a large part is dedicated precisely to the reform of the public sector. I believe that it is good and that the reasoning of the state budget has improved precisely in the text section, but I think it would be good for the next year and for the next budget to go more with the precise measurement of the success of the reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59715	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. Replica response, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59716	First of all, thank you for your support, I wouldn't have replicated it if you hadn't mentioned South Korea in this speech which is actually the same and I keep repeating the same things over the last two years which may be boring but those who haven't noticed it were no fairy tales and tricks, and then there aren't even now, we believe in the results. South Korea is a very successful country that has risen from total misery. The current secretary general is a man who had nothing to eat in childhood. However, in South Korea, in its public sector, education is paid in private and public. And people sat down to ensure that. Is that our model? So this is not a replica in terms of opposition, not our model. So society differs, is Korea thus achieving the greatest possible result, so far yes. What is the pressure and burden on the population? Probably huge, which will bring in 20 years from now I don't know. We have our own way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59717	Thank you very much. 11 replicas, respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59718	Thank you very much. So, in the opening explanation of the budget that has been put forward, I am actually most interested in the part that concerned growth and in the way and the measures that the government will encourage and strengthen economic growth in Croatia. You, Mr. Prime Minister, have mentioned in this regard that you are counting on public investment, the removal of barriers to investment, tax policy, funds and economic diplomacy. Although you have not particularly entered into detail and width, it has, however, been stuck in my ear in a certain way, this item and the tax policy. I'd really like to know if you could explain in more detail what kind of tax policy you're counting on. Do you also expect to guarantee to Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs that there will be no more introduction of new taxes and raising tax rates in the next two years. I think we all agree here that economic growth is actually the only way to address the many and economic and budgetary difficulties and the social tensions facing our society. However, economic growth with continued daily tax debates, new rates, on new ways of taxing areas will not be. The instability of the tax system and the overall instability of economic policies has proved to be one of the biggest obstacles to investment, highlighted in the global economic forum's competitiveness index where government representatives particularly proudly pointed out that Croatia has moved five places.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59719	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59720	Dear colleagues, the impediment to investment is the state of society. It's inherited not only from your government, it's a little longer story. I don't think anyone in this House is interested in these obstacles, but whose motive it would be for them to stay is nothing. Any government would be happy to boast that it has removed obstacles and has more investment. Only one who has a direct material interest in this, a corrupt interest may be interested at more or less invisible levels of government and administration to survive such a thing. The legal changes we have introduced and implemented through this House are clear reliefs for business. As far as I'm concerned, it's as clear as day. Will it result? It will be safe. How fast? That's the second question, equally important. Taxes, in two minutes you could mention what taxes were raised and what new taxes we are talking about, so there are no new taxes but there are talks about a property tax that we cannot agree on with our coalition partners and we will give it up for now. It's normal so in democracy. So there are reasons why many countries, almost all countries have that tax, but none of it at the moment, VAT has increased to 20% and these are more or less new taxes, generic and concrete. Everything else is the discharges I was talking about here, and that's the facts. Deny these facts. Is that tax reform? It's not. Is it possible to go into tax reform in a crisis like this, hard, and also introduce new taxes and property taxes whose goal would not be to burden those who live some ordinary middle life, but to place what is not economically active in function, but at this point obviously nothing. So it's a political topic that we're going to continue to discuss, and you're ending up looking at Europe's map, so you're going to see what countries have it and why do they have it?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59721	Thank you very much. 12 replicas and respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59722	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, this is where you really performed as a prime minister. Perhaps this is the announcement of a government reconstruction, I think that today's political moment and all these announcements you announced, reforms in just 2014, 2015 is an election year, so there will be no reforms, you announced judicial reform, health, public administration, education, science, social care etc., etc. So this political moment is really not the time to laugh, when you were representing the budget and we almost wanted to laugh from HDZ, but it's too serious a time, especially when we mention health care, so when we mention that this month was ten days late in health care, last month too, and it's not because of the entry of health care into the central salary account but because of the lack of funds in the health system. You mentioned the contributions and the European Commission has also told you that one of the main deficit generators of this 17 billion kuna is expected in the following year to reduce the contribution of 2%, i.e. the absence of two, a loss of two to two and a half billion kuna in the budget. Yesterday we appeared to me and it seems to me and agreed that in these two years this government has made or this Ministry of Health has made a new debt in healthcare of around 5 billion kuna and this is the result of a reduction in contributions but we have heard nothing about the social sensitivity of this budget, of the development component, of preserving the position of domestic companies on the foreign and foreign market.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59723	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59724	I'm not talking about the balance sheet of your mandate right now and what you've changed besides buying a couple of machines for the institution, but are you a colleague from the same club, a colleague who sits in line above you because you're talking about the European Commission and the European Commission's objections to the government's budgetary and tax policy. So these are the bureaucrats we teach Croatia about which your colleague spoke five minutes ago, which should be resisted. How come you're the one on the tenth? So how do you resist? We have one member of the club calling for an insurrection against the European Commission's fiscal rules and others, five minutes later, the same commission treats as the top of natural wisdom. Well, you see in that, and it's a secret policy that we all still discover, and so do I. The truth is neither, but at least you agree you're the opposition, it's easier for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59725	Thank you very much. The last 13th Replic, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59726	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, and by proposing and explaining the 2014 budget, you have clearly announced a reduction in pensions under special regulations concerning Croatian wartime people with disabilities, widows, dead Croatian defenders, parents of the dead Croatian defenders and children of Croatian defenders. Tell me, do you really think that this population is to blame for this government not for its incompetence, as the ministers do, but rather for failing to achieve the goals, that they have neither professionally nor qualityd their two years of mandate, does this have to pay for the population of those most responsible for their lives that created Croatia's homeland? Is more than 5,000 kuna something special in a family's life without its son? Is it especially in the life of a disabled 100% or the 90 percent or 70% who gets a pension under special regulations? Do you think that this population that participates for the eighth time in the recovery of the state budget is not by its own fault? Do you think they will calm down the increase, for example, in an item that speaks employment and administration? Do you think it justifies the CNB for its 45 million kunas of waste throws at fitness, swimming and all that? Be rid of the cut-offs of those who spend fabulously, not your incompetence, ignorance, intricacy, incompetence, not doing a job looking for the population of the most responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59727	The reply to the replica, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, was respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59728	There was one government until 2011 that carried out the same measure, you were a representative at that time and you provided full support for the reduction measures. Yes, it's quite true, unless you skipped your last term, and as far as I can remember, you're visible. You're lucky you're not that category of people personally exposed, you're better off for yourself. And I'm going to repeat here, over 5.5 thousand kuna, so it's above the average Croatian net salary, the average not media, which is one other category, the average salary because a lot of people make, unfortunately, a lot of people, less than 5.5 thousand kuna. It's an average salary, an average that raises high wages. Media pay's lower. Only for those who have over 5.5 thousand kunas and only for those and only 10% or even 10% and that's all. If you had objected to that while you were in power now I would have treated your objection more seriously and with more respect, I can't do this. It's just pulsism and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59729	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, we're done with the replicas and the replies to the replicas. Are the representatives of the working bodies? Yeah. Srdjan Gjurkovic's Committee on Finance and Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59730	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 53rd session held on 21 November 2013 and on the basis of its competence in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the Proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year 2014 and projections for 2015 and 2016 together with the relevant acts as a home working body. So after the inaugural presentation of the government's representatives, today we heard it here from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. The following opinions have been expressed in the Committee's proceedings. For the first time, the proposal for a rebalancing of the state budget for the current year and a proposal for the state budget for 2014 with projections for 2015 and 2016 will also take place and some technical difficulties will be created, for example, in the draft state budget, the data from the 2013 budget which do not correspond to the amounts from the rebalancing of the state budget. It was then presented in the debate that the proposed state budget for the following year with projections for 2015 and 2016 is a budget that will not follow fiscal policy during the following year. The proposed state budget is also likely to be revised in the first half of 2014. In order to demonstrate such a high deficit and a high public debt, the Republic of Croatia is entering the excessive deficit system and will need to begin what is necessary in agreement with the European Commission when an EU Member State enters the excessive deficit procedure. It is also stated that we must start to reduce the general public debt and in a situation where we do not have sufficient growth in gross social product. It was also discussed that this proposal for a state budget is actually the starting point on which measures will have to be taken to reduce the deficit or public debt in order to emerge from the excessive deficit procedure as soon as possible. And it is also discussed on the committee that it is obvious that in terms of excessive deficit measures that the Republic of Croatia is transforming the entry into the European Union, adapting new methods and calculating the public debt deficits, and this budget creates the preconditions for creating an accurate picture of the real state in which we are located. At this time, short-term measures are also needed to privatise Croatia's insurance and Croatian postal banks as well as monetization of Croatian highways. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to propose, by majority, votes 8 to and 3 against the Croatian Parliament, the adoption of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and the financial plans of the extra budget beneficiaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59731	Thank you very much. Do the other presidents or representatives of the working bodies want to present reports? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is now the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourists and the Honorable Representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59732	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Prime Minister with his associates, Honored Minister Linic. It took the Kukurik coalition two years to sober up. Today the pre-election slogan of high unemployment is replaced by high GDP sounds like it was invented by the Grenf of Alan Ford. Because let's dig a little bit into our own wounds and find out that there are currently 356 grand unemployed. And by the end of the year, what cannot grow and what should not fall will grow. If it continues at such a pace in the unemployed column by the end of 2013, then in a month, 370,000 Croatian citizens. And in the spring of next year, unemployment will move closer to the magical border, estimated by 400,000 economic experts. That's why the arm on the heart this slogan of high unemployment replaces high VAT really sounds like an unsalted joke, like black humor and that... black humor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the slogan had been devised by Labourist Prime Minister Milanovic, he would surely have transferred us if we were malicious politicians. I guess I'm also being mean because I dared to look into the promises of the Kukurik coalition just over two years ago. When there were fewer unemployed and the people seemed indeed to have a new government that had time for thorough preparations to reduce high unemployment and increase by stagnating or at that time a slight drop in GDP. But two years after coming to power in half the term of office, government members and President Zoran Milanovic himself do not think about the aforementioned consignments. In recent weeks sober statements have been heard, even in 2014 citizens will not live better. Then why are the citizens paying the government if they won't live better? Not because we were taught yesterday by Finance Minister Slavko Linic that the crisis cannot be resolved by pressing the button overnight. It is a long-term and difficult job for which many of the best human and professional qualities and of course knowledge and experience are needed. In a debate on late budget rebalancing, Minister Linic mentioned several times that the government would reform, for example, a health care that is in complete collapse. Are we indeed impatient ingrates seeking results overnight? We're not sure. We're looking for results after 730 nights and days. So not overnight, after 730 nights and days. We're looking for at least a sign of a shift to better in half the current government's term that she inherited, we're aware, not skeletons, but skeletons in various closets. But to detect and bury these skeletons, there was plenty of time. The HDZ has lost power because of its poor leadership and becomes truly and counterproductive even rude to any criticism to answer are those before us. Just now, Prime Minister Milanovic, in an opening speech here for this speaker, liked the public because of the claim that his government will not resort to the sins of its predecessors. It's said "hit." So far, today is a new day, a day ideal for changing and rhetoric of the way of managing the state. I knew and therefore wrote down the word "volant" of the script manent, the word and the distinction remains that the members of the government and the projection of this budget will call it real, only possible and socially developmental. What budget hasn't that been in the last 15 years? Because despite all these columns, the budget figures are the government's most important political act in power. The budget reveals the character of the government, the worldview, the ideology expressed in numbers. Ministers or head of government with a pay phone for days and months may shrub that they are socially sensitive and, for example, are guided by science and knowledge. They can thunder that the budgets they most often deny, they can thunder a pardon to the budget they most often deny. And the government of Zoran Milanovic swears as they swore until now to the government in knowledge, creativity and their own brains. The seriousness of the claim that only knowledge and of course dedicated work can get us out of the crisis deny the figures from the fat budget book. Science and technological development will cut 40 million kunas. It is evidence that science and amazing technological development are treated in Croatia as consumption. The budgetary policy also has a stabilising function, achieving price stability, high employment rates and stable prosperous growth rates. As in 2012, the budget policy was missed in 2013. The only observed growth was price hikes, especially energy sources that raised more than 30%. The collection of electricity, gas and heating has fueled the rise in prices by rod. Once again, we have far the most expensive food in the environment, again Croatian citizens will survive to fill their car trunks in Slovenia, Hungary, Italy, BiH or Austria. In addition to filling their cars' trunks with a spectrum, Croatians will fill Slovenian, Hungarian, Italian and some other state registers. Not by its own will, but by Croatian Government's decision. Yes, the budget is primarily a political document that reveals the programmes and intentions of the authorities and in 2014 the Croatian Government takes over the economic strategy that successful countries have been bypassing in the big round. Not only the Governments in Europe, in the European Union but also governments around the world began to see the need for both state and private spending at the beginning of the crisis to help economies recover or to prevent, at the very least, the rise in unemployment and the collapse of businesses. Such spending plans for economic recovery are often referred to as the Kensian incentive plans. Not only have the United States used them after the great world depression, but in this and many European countries have recorded the greatest possible growth with the slightest risk, especially for citizens who have been able to create new jobs by spending, which, of course, is more employment that can be achieved both by deficit and external debt. The verified theory is not interested in the Croatian Government which does the opposite. Of course, it is as important as I said in yesterday's debate on budget rebalancing for 2013 on which money is spent from Croatian citizens' stockings and it is important to what often expensive money is borrowed. Many countries have escaped from the crisis by an increased but strictly controlled deficit and debt of the central state, but these countries had both the courage and the programmes and ideas to produce and the market on which they placed the goods produced. In 2013, the Croatian government spent not on reforms, not on strategic projects, not on investments, but on wandering. At the beginning of the year, major public investments, Croatia's new deal with an explanation that the state should not and should not be a large or large investor. We're turning around, you're talking about a private sector and foreign investment that wasn't there or so far on the dock. The experience of building Zagreb airport testifies who is planning to invest in Croatia from the developed European west. Companies that don't have money. Instead of turning east to Asian countries that are far more interesting than Europe and the United States. I hope that after talks with the Chinese, Prime Minister Milanovic will establish more serious contacts with, for example, wealthy Kazakhstanese people who have been sadning co-operation for a long time. And what do the figures in the 2014 budget look like? Unoptimal. The expenditure is $13.5 billion and is even higher by 3.7 billion than this year's budget, which resulted in a deficit of 60% more than planned. Again, the countries of the European Union are taking the road, and we are taking the forest. While the European Union governments managed to cut budgets by 6% on average, Croatia's budget increases but not at the expense of significant growth, but on the burden of deficits, which suggests a new set of borrowings. What have the EU countries cut budgets on? Social policy reforms and reforms of a state apparatus that is more efficient, smaller and cheaper. We have a state apparatus that's more expensive, bigger, anti-entrepreneurial. Croatian bureaucracy is also threatened by foreign investors. In order to illustrate unreal budgeting, I will remind you that 10 years ago the state had public spending at 80 billion kuna, despite the fact that the level of services provided by the state did not increase. Health care, for example, has even been reduced. The cost of service has been increased by 50 billion kuna for various reasons. The increase is part of interest on the debt, and part of the membership fee is 4.4 billion kuna, but it is still a 50% increase in the 2002 or 2003 budget. So despite the promises, there are no significant savings. The revenues are based on the government's optimistic estimates of GDP growth. How much is the planned growth? For now, it seems to us from this perspective, this atmosphere and this experience 1.3%, but I will remind you that the 2013 budget is also based on the consolidation in last year's debate rather than on the optimistic unreal growth rates of 1.8%. Instead of growth of 1.8%, Croatia's GDP will collapse to -0.8%. Minus is 2.6%. Can you achieve a 1.3% growth rate next year? The government says, like last year, it can. What is this optimism about? Based on the increase in VAT rates from 10 to 13%, higher fiscalisation revenues and higher tobacco excise duties. The planned public debt in 2014 will be 62% of GDP. In the 2014 budget, there are no clearly indicated measures for economic recovery, unless they are seen in the words of Minister Linic: we are raising our hands from the privateer, the government itself will achieve GDP growth. The finance minister said another sign of the budget: I am not sure Brussels will accept our budget, which goes from Parliament to the euro of bureaucratic scissors. All those who think that Brussels will have consideration for citizens' problems are seriously wrong. And Brussels as well as the IMF is the biggest or I won't go too far if I say the only important interest in how to repay the debt. In 2014 it will be a stressful year for the vast majority of Croatian citizens. If we lived as badly as in 2013 in 2014 we would have reason to be satisfied. In 2014 by all indicators, according to the projections of this budget we will live worse than we live today. Croatian Labourists – the party of work for next year launched one action that is the next content. Women and men will work 56 hours a week for a certain time to 67 years of life without a coupon contract. Your government loves you. We have one piece of paper on which citizens sign government support for these measures so far no one has, the action has begun, no one has signed. And at the very end when we had that action, when we started that action in Bjelovar, a citizen returned a gift to the Kukurik coalition, which is a handkerchief, probably to wipe the tears on which it says it's filled with my nose with empty pockets and asked me to hand it over to Mr. Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59733	Thank you, too. Let's go to the replicas. The first replica and respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59734	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, like you said about today's budget, we haven't heard anything. We should have heard something about his social sensitivity, so now that I'm looking at this budget, then I see that an orthopedic aid item and particularly expensive medications have been expelled from the budget item. It's so much just part of the social sensitivity of this budget. Development component, we heard that public investment should be acquired from the crisis. Only in the health system compared to 2011 did half a billion kuna investment in health care remain. Last year the budget succeeded in one component, which is what I said about preserving the position of domestic companies on the domestic and foreign markets because they kept the credit rating. However, this year we also saw that this credit rating is at the garbage level. Therefore, they did not help the positions of domestic companies on the foreign and foreign markets either. So when we talked about the transparency of this budget, look here you have the decision of the former HDZ government to obtain two ECMO apparatus. Each one costs 500 thousand kuna. Now 35 ECMO machines cost 1 1,500 kuna. So much for transparency. Why is there, if the Public Procurement Office has been avoided, it has paid 37 million kuna, and by all accounts it should have been paid somewhere around 17 and a half million kuna, watch out for unnecessary appliances. Well, now, I don't have any more time. When Mr. Prime Minister represented the budget and knew how to answer the question this arrogantly, then I thought of Lincoln's when he said, "You know, everyone thinks you're incompetent." So I advise you Stop saying you'll have every doubt. [[The incursion president: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59735	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59736	Dear fellow Milinovic, when I was talking about reforms, and you were talking about health reform now. Well, I don't know, yesterday I'm with some colleagues, and I showed on Croatian television what health reform will look like. There's a cyclist driving a lady. It looks like health care will look like an ambulance just like this. However, reforms could be made. Let's say we have 186 agencies and funds in Croatia. The Agency for Pressure Equipment in charge of Human and Environment Security has a budget of 4 million and 800 kuna. That's the whole budget. 4 million and 400,000 kunas go to pay, 320,000 to the rolling stock and 60,000 to the information. Now the question is how many of these 186 agencies are their own purpose. Many of these agencies, that these agencies have been analysed for several months and that they have been made in these agencies of order absolutely certain that science should not be taken away from 40 million kunas. So it could've been done far more if there'd been will and desire.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59737	New Replic and Honorable Vice President of the House Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59738	Dear Mr. President, dear colleague. You said exactly that the budget is the government's most important document to which it announces its policy in the following year, its programmes and intentions. You mentioned health care, and the Prime Minister mentioned health care. So, looking at that, then I'm just amazed by a scandalous approach to this health budget that's never happened before. Namely, when you turn the pages related to the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, then you will find fantasticly worked out some items literally at 5000 kuna level. But when you turn those majors, key items, items weighing five billion, two billion, three billion, etc. There's literally nothing there. There's absolutely nothing here for the first time. And it's actually a question of how the MPs will vote for a program like this. No, I think it's just a misrepresentation of agents, not, of course, those oppositions, we're used to it. However, I would like to know how the ruling representatives will vote on the budget. How when they get back to their environments and ask them how much money we'll have for our county hospital, how much for primary health care, how much for drugs, how they'll look into their eyes and tell me we don't know because there's nothing in this budget, you don't know if it's going to be 3 billion or 10 billion for hospitals. For primary protection and health care 2 billion or 8 billion. For prescription drugs, how much will it be? That doesn't say anything in this budget. And I'm very interested in how it can be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59739	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59740	And many economic experts tell us economic laymen that we will find it very difficult to manage in this fat budget book. However, in order not to be unfair to these figures that are in science, 40 million kuna was taken away in 2013, but for 2014, this item was repaired and it was understood probably in these projections that investment in science was actually invested in the development of Croatia and that science was not required to cut the budget and this was corrected in this projection.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59741	Thank you very much. A new replica of the respected representative of Ivo Jelusic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59742	In your opening statement, you said one thing that I agree with, and that is correct that you said, you said that you have understanding if I can interpret this government in terms of what it found, or what HDZ left. So you said she didn't leave the skeletons. You said she left the skeletons. And I really agree with you here that the HDZ government has left the economic downturn, that it did not know or wanted to find solutions. But what I don't agree with you about, which is why you said HDZ lost power. Unfortunately, it's not. HDZ has lost power over thieving, withdrawing money for its own needs and needs, due to FIMI MEDIA and others, painting tunnels, and not because it has brought the state into a difficult economic situation. Doing so was enough for their electoral body to give them no further confidence. So, not because they didn't get the country out of the crisis, but because they did what they did. And we have a double assignment, we have two assignments. First of all, let's not act and act like we don't have a problem. And we solved it right away, there's no doubt about it. And another task is to do what they couldn't or could not today or will be able to do tomorrow, and that's the country that gets out of the crisis. Now, that's a little harder, but we're working on all these measures that we're working on so far and today and yesterday and all these days have been here to help the economy because without the development of the economy, we're not all going to be better, I think we've said enough. Of course, it would be good if the Labour Party, in that sense, in addition to the sweet words that people would like to hear, gave a concrete proposal, realistic, well-founded and that would help get the country out of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59743	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59744	Mr Jelusic, here is the opportunity you gave me, just now Prime Minister Milanovic said make an alternative budget. The same sentence I heard three or four years ago when the HDZ Prime Minister said, was it Mrs. Jadranka Kosor or Mr. Ivo Sanader, make an alternative budget for what the SDP replied? Remember, Mr. Milanovic, you said it was the government's business. Those were your words. Yeah, we can't be unfair to former governments, just one government. Let's say the last one was the HDZ government of Jadranka Kosor. In the '90s, the industry began to be destroyed. All of the governments so far are guilty and Racan's government has not taken the initiative to start producing in Croatia, which has been timbling with the import lobby and that we have suppressed any traces of production. Therefore, it is certain that this government is not well, is not pleasant and has great problems. These, when I was talking about skeletons in the closet, are skeletons in the closet of all previous governments that did not make Croatia's citizens better, did nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59745	Respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović and her replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59746	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's the esteemed MP you said, so we're not looking for change overnight, are we ungrateful if after 738 days and nights we're looking for a better life, we're looking for a better life. I think you're right and you're not ungrateful, in fact and impatient, that you have the right to be and to be realistic and to look for the impossible. It's all legitimate. But this budget, as you have seen, is not a head in the sand, not talking about a better empty life, but a moment of truth and facing the truth, which is the most painful thing. So we've had this situation so far that responsibility has always shifted to someone else. Why is that? To God, to fate, to evil luck, always to someone else or to someone else. So here's a famous saying, quote that can lead us all. There are three kinds of people in our society, those who can't see or refuse to see problems, those who see problems, but because they didn't create them themselves, they prefer to blame someone else and those who see problems and who, despite their own failure to create them, are willing to take responsibility for them. And we're not asking for popularity, but that's something we're going to do because we promised the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59747	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59748	It is absolutely certain that we in the Parliament are not looking for better lives because we live far above the average of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. When I was talking about hope for the better tomorrow and the right to hope after 732 days and two nights, you said we could be realistic and look for the impossible. We heard two years ago, a little less than two years ago, some other words. That's when the prime minister said one key sentence that I'm going to repeat, and that's not going to transfer responsibility to others. I don't think this government has the right to speak after two years and you left us this, you left us that. I think the government is now working on what it left itself in 2012 and 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59749	Thank you very much. Dear representative Marija Lugaric and her replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59750	Dear colleague Vuksic, in your debate you gave quite a lot of flat-rate reviews, a little more concrete figures, you said a number that says that in this budget the resources for science are reduced by 40 million kuna. It seems to me that later in one replica, you've corrected yourself because it's simply incorrect. If you look at page 274 exactly the third line of the budget you will see that the funds are increasing for science and technological development from 648 million to 961 million kuna, which is around 315 million kuna compared to the 2013 budget. Most of this is in the Croatian Foundation for Science programmes, 100 million kunas, or for the researcher's international mobility programme around 7 million new kunas. Also the funds for technological development and this is important because the issue of transfer from science to the economy is increasing from 26 to 36 million kuna. If you were talking about budget rebalancing what was the topic yesterday, don't forget that in the first rebalancing in the fourth month, funds for scientific projects, precisely for science increased by 60 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59751	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59752	I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I said, I said, I put two points together and the budget rebalance, and that's why in the replica, I stressed that there was a significant increase, a significant increase. 40 million were taken away, you said in the first rebalancing, 60 million were given, those 40 million were not to be taken away, they were not to be taken away, science was not to be taken away. Not science and education. You said one sentence, I talked a little bit about the figures in my presentation, just as much as the prime minister does about the whole budget, nothing much less. He was sending political messages just like we sent some political messages.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59753	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59754	Thank you. Comrade Vuksic, it is obvious from all your performances so far that in some way the art gallery of Allanford characters plays an important role in your performances, so you mentioned Grunf today and you see me associated with Bob Rock, who is such a ghastly grouch who is cute, is cute, who has some social sensitivity, etc. And it doesn't solve anything, it all ends up upside down and worse than it was before. You see me this general atmosphere more associated with that relationship... You know that phone booth and you just need to determine who Sil Oliver is in this Croatian situation and who Bing is, here are the courts trying to determine that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have to say they've been doing well lately, and there's material, and I still think the file's big, waiting okay. So, when we talk about Croatia, someone throws Jeremiah, too, because Jeremiah is always complaining about being sick, they're full of these halls that complain, but there's something that needs to be solved, number one that recalls the past, and it's the only one that solves something there, so how it solves, it solves. You see, we can't, neither can Croatia drive ingniti, this government didn't come into something unknown, so it comes off Columbus or this Milanovic or I don't know who it is, so now it's revealing and there it's meeting an unknown situation. So we got into a sack of brocades, they say, in Split, in a cask of brocades. My people, how can you ignore it and object to this government to remember when it's being attacked by those who've filled with brocades of that porridge, that they're being poked by something. I mean, it's a really healthy logic, I find that weird logic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59755	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59756	Mr. Jurjevic, number 1 knew what was happening 400 years ago, not what happened four years ago. It's me, this government, to continue in your style, that reminds me of the flower shop and how a successful state would be when it's run by people from the flower shop. And what you remind me of is you're a very nice colleague of mine, so I'm not comparing any characters from an excellent Alan Ford.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59757	Dear Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59758	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you are from time to time involved in a little economic theory, so you mention Kens. On the other hand, of course, you are trying to point out as a great anti-neoliberalism, and in the end, when everything is under then I won't say what counterpart Jurjevic says get down a little on Alan Ford. In general, it should be said that this government encourages a competitive economy in the first place and that spending which is clearly focused on quality investments that will have its effectiveness and then when discussing investment in infrastructure, then it must be said that this government is only discussing and working on investments that have its own effectiveness, which have its own return to action after it is invested and not that we do or the roads or ports that kill have no benefit tomorrow for the economy, except for the chairing of the tapes. What is also crucial is that this government is working on the competitiveness of an economy that must be the basis for creating personal consumption of citizens and not that we have stimulated personal consumption of citizens, so we need to work on laws that are related to the resolution of consumer credits, that we have a situation to push the economy into certain investments, so we need to extract them through pre-negotiated settlements, thus discussing the economic policy of this Government is based on clarity and efficiency. And what has not been so far has been clarity and transparency. We find that, we do it to solve it because we have a goal of growth in gross products and employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59759	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59760	You mentioned your esteemed colleague Gjurkovic and you noticed well I offered as a solution to this government of the Neoliberal Government of Keynes. For what? I'll admit I'm a Marxist. I didn't neoliberate and I'm not ashamed of it. A lot of them were before, although they didn't read Marks. I've offered you a solution because this government is acting by a pure neoliberal model, so when we need when the state manages that model, you take the best of those who have tampered with neoliberal capitalism. Therefore, it is not in my statement of contradiction because exposure should not be seen segmentally but what I do in the Parliament in these two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59761	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Frano Matušić and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59762	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Vuksic, you said that this year's deficit increased by 60%. Yeah, only on paper, and the paper suffers a lot. Why just on paper? Because economic growth is projected to be 0.2% by the end of this year. Mr. Prime Minister did not look back on that. It did not refer to the fact that the economic downturn would be 0.8% and perhaps up to 1% for some analysts, which means that there will be a difference in this budget at least somewhere around a billion kuna when we talk about the effects of this one percentage point in the GDP drop on the budget. So the very fact that the prime minister came with a draft budget based on incorrect data on the rebalancing of 2013, which will certainly not end as planned, is certainly not going to end with 0.2% of economic growth and they know it. They came here knowingly to deceive us into the Croatian Parliament that this is the basis for next year. And speaking of the characters from Alan Ford, then I'm going to say that the work of this government reminds me of the action of a very interesting character called Superhik, and this Superhik has taken away the poor to give to the rich.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59763	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59764	Dear fellow Matusic needs optimism and I have nothing against the optimistic budget, but of course optimism should be based on real indicators and what we have seen in practice, experienced over the past two years. And in the last year or the previous year, it means that at the end of 2012, the government was shining optimism from that pay phone, and then economic experts warned that this optimism was unrealistic. But in the government, they claimed they would do anything to achieve those forecasts they bid on the speaker, but few of them were made, we experienced a fall and therefore we are skeptical not to repeat the government that I do not wish to. I don't think there's anyone in this assembly who wants to go to the government because he wants to do himself any harm. We are the ones who want the government to succeed and that the government doesn't achieve a marked growth rather than shift that growth and make us feel better. We'll find a place to criticize.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59765	Thank you very much. Dear representative Hrvoje Neklic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59766	I think it is not correct to say that the government is doing nothing to help Croatian citizens. Reforms are being implemented, reforms are being launched and they will certainly deliver results. Here I'll just remind you of the law we recently passed, which is the Consumer Credit Act. The law thus helped some 70,000 users of such loans who would fall by about 1,000 kuna on the Monday of the war. And what is the effect of this measure? So the concrete effect is, instead of a thousand kunas that have gone to banks so far, will remain for Croatian citizens who will invest this money further in consumption and thus result in an increase in revenues in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59767	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59768	If I said the government didn't do anything, I'm sorry, she didn't do enough, and no government has ever done anything but work for its own interests. Each government also works for the interests of its citizens. What, though, has been waiting two years? That was one of the burning problems. Secondly, the problem remained for those who took loans in euros, the remaining problems they took on unreal interest loans in kunas. We Croatian Labourists have asked us to begin the debate in the Croatian Parliament on the abolition of the foreign exchange clause, in this there is no even will the Government has refused it has no will to begin the debate on the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about these measures that are too late, I think we're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59769	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Djakic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59770	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you have well established that it is no longer time to collect skeletons or mention skeletons. The time has passed and certainly 732 days, as you say, have been enough to remove any possibility of moving into reforms that will contribute to the better. It was also said that public companies would be the main investor in the Republic of Croatia. Today, in the production of this budget, we see that everything is stopped. And water supply and draining and irrigation. There's talk of introducing order. There's no order because there's no payment. All contractors stopped due to non-payment due to budget projections and visible items for the next period. There's nothing that's been announced. The total economic collapse occurs in Croatia after two years of this government, which I am sure of with its incompetence and incompetence has not taken correct and quality measures to invest in the Republic of Croatia. If nothing else, at least from public companies that used to be in charge. However, they did not effectively take advantage of this task in the progress of their production, work and employment, as well as the projects carried out through which the cooperatives would have their success. I believe this isn't the end, what you're... continues to be a continuation of savings which, in its difficult form, scares both citizens and investors and does not allow an absolute development of the market economy in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59771	Thank you very much. We're going to the replica of the esteemed representative, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59772	Dear Vuksic, this budget should always be seen in the light of two very difficult facts. And that's that, the payments are the principal loans of 25 billion kuna. And that interest payments are $11.6 billion, which together makes up €37 billion, which is 10% of the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia. The thing is, even worse, this year's main payments are rising by more than six billion kuna and interest payments are rising by 1.6 billion kuna. Therefore, only the rise of the principal and interest payments this year is greater than 2% of gross domestic product. And any solution and any debate that doesn't consider it is actually not relevant. You're offering a solution in consumption and you're saying it's a proven universal solution. If that were the case, would governments of countries facing severe crises such as Greece, Spain and other countries, then why not go into consumption. Consumption may be a solution but must be combined naturally with other measures. You're still going, you're talking about cutting social benefits and reducing administration, or firing government employees, which is contrary to what you said because it's a reduction in spending. And then you accuse or honor the Prime Minister and we often accuse you of demagogy and populism. If you offer a light solution that you do not stand behind and if in the next one you say the opposite of what you said earlier in the solution then it is Mr. Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59773	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59774	Dear fellow, it's hard to comment on and replicate to you on this replica because most of what you said you took some of the sentences out of context. That the solution you said was that consumption, the incentive to combine consumption with some other measures, so that's quite clear. Let's have a debate on economic theories now prevailing in the world and in the European Union. Another thing you're saying is that any debate that doesn't respect debt or interest, which is 2% of the gross social product, is unnecessary. That's exactly what we're talking about, yes, it's a big debt and a great burden is interest, but it's known before. What didn't happen and that's the start of production. It didn't seem, there was no atmosphere that would increase the gross social product. And in this way and in these budgets, it's absolutely certain that GDP won't grow, that there will be even more sex and nothing in my debate I'll give you a written debate was not contradictory. Contradictivity every time you see and especially when you want to teach how parliamentary representatives should talk in the Croatian Parliament. And what they think about that the citizens showed you yesterday's poll.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59775	Honorable representative Nadica Jelash and her replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59776	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You said in your discussion that for the first two years, the government lost, the first two years of its term, to wander. So I assure you there was no wandering. Every day he used himself for work, for blood work. There are actually no areas that have not been touched and all in order to create conditions for economic growth. Why economic growth? Why is this a crucial thing in this government's economic policy? Because each percentage of economic growth carries several billion new budget revenues. So, not debt revenue, but income for which no expensive interest will be paid. Because that's what you should know, right now, interest on a huge public debt is the reason for our high deficit. The deficit increases public debt, the public debt re-produces high interest rates. And it's a vicious circle that closes at all the higher levels we call debt slavery. I think actually that this budget for 2014 has been extremely difficult to make. You see yourself with these difficulties of making a budget you won't have to face your luck and even more fortunately Croatian citizens. Blessed position of opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59777	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59778	Remember these words, you will hardly come to power anymore. Has the Croatian government been wandering for 2 years? Well, she was wandering. Remember what she said at the beginning of the mandate, that she would launch public works and that GDP would grow exactly in public works. After that the government said no public works, no shrugging buildings now we will encourage the private sector. After that private sector, Mr Linic said no a few days ago, public companies themselves will raise GDP, alone, without the private sector. Those are the words of the government's representatives, not the opposition. Be happy while you have an opposition that warns you because you could easily sleep as much as you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59779	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Now it's the SDP club and the vice president of the House of Honored Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59780	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister, finance ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. When the state budget is analysed the first view of the budget is on three items, these are revenues, expenditures and deficits. The planned revenues for 2014 are 113.1 billion, which is slightly more than 2% compared to the rebalanced budget 2013. The expenditures of 130.5 billion, about 3% more than the budget rebalance in 2013 and the deficit of 17.4 billion or 5% of GDP, so the deficit that counts only on the state budget. In this respect, revenue is taxed somewhere at the level planned for 2013 with a certain and tax allocation, then contributions that plan to growth of 1.8%, and the most significant growth in revenue is international and interstate aid based on the European Union funds because this is Croatia's first budget as members of the European Union. As for costs, this rationalises the total cost of employees with a loss of 1.5%, a significant growth in financial expenditure of 15.5%, with the most significant share of interest coming close to 12 billion kuna next year. A slightly larger subsidy, primarily around agriculture, because this should entail withdrawing funds from the European budget, slightly less compensation of around 4-5% and again for other expenditures significant growth, around 20% precisely because of the planned share of the domestic component for those projects to be financed from the European Union funds and funds. What is the basis of this projection? On expected growth of 1.3%, on changes in the tax system, in part and because we have become a member of the European Union. On fiscal... membership in the European Union, i.e. the withdrawal of funds from the budget, which comes from the European Union funds, on further support to the economy, particularly the export economy, investment, and the effects of new investments that were realised in 2012 and 2013 and fiscal consolidation of the good part of the Croatian economy. So this is the first budget that Croatia brings as a member of the European Union and must be a budget according to certain measures and tasks carried out by the European Union, i.e. all Member States of the European Union. There are two moments, the first is the excessive deficit procedure, and the second is that new measures in the European Union are the procedures for macroeconomic imbalances. With this budget where the general government deficit of 5.5% is planned and the public debt of 62% of GDP Croatia will enter into one and more procedures. But let's look at what happened to Croatia in five years of crisis, let's look at the 2009 deficit, so the first year of the crisis by 2012. The deficit was moving in 2009. 17.4%, 2010. 20.6%, 2011. 25.7% and 2012. 16.4%. In five years of crisis, 80 billion general government deficits. What about public debt? From 120.4 billion to 183.3 billion in these five years, which is a difference of 63 billion kuna and you can see that another 17 billion kuna is a potential debt, given the deficit in which some future costs will be charged in the coming years. The government budget deficit and the balance of payments deficit, which has a significant impact on the stock balance deficit, higher imports than exports, condition high debt, and interest as the principal does not actually re-influence the deficit. What exactly is the cause of such a high and state deficit and borrowing, and what will further impact in the long term? This is the structure of the economy and its low competitiveness and capitalisation. The GDP structure on which growth was based was, in fact, based mainly on credit consumption, not on real indicators or real investment in the real sector. The state budget has a significant and long-term burden on two large systems, which is a health and pension system. The healthcare system can be consolidated in the short term, but the pension system in which we will have about a million and 200 thousand pensioners in the long term is unrealistic to expect employment between 400 and 500 thousand new workers, i.e. the creation of new jobs. When we talk about the structure of the economy, it's a low share of the industry that's capital-intense, the industry they have, it's mostly labour intensive, with low wages. Economic operators with low capitalisation and low competitiveness are also less capable of credit. And we see that in recent years, especially in the years of the business bank crisis, very, under very rigorous conditions, follow the project and the few projects and investments that the real sector has. What about the GDP structure? The result is also the structure of the economy, a high share of credit consumption. At the time of the crisis, investment in permanent capital was almost lost. I've already said something about health care and the pension system. So in 2014, with a deficit of 5.5% and a public debt of around 63% means entering the excessive deficit procedure and therefore measures and procedures are needed to reduce the deficit. In our case, investment and new employment in the real sector are a long-term and long-term policy, but within a short time, we must have both savings and public sector reform. However, it should be said that this will not be enough in the short-term policy. The European Semester for countries not in the monetary union introduces new rules in the economic governance of the so-called ... fiscal and macroeconomic supervision. [[The speaker speaks English, not understood.]] In its macroeconomic indicators, Croatia is also entering the macro-economic imbalance procedure to reveal itself, investigating risky economic movements. And of course we're going to get a warning that we have a low quality business environment, low efficiency of funds, a lack of competitiveness in key markets that make future economic growth more difficult. However, these problems have already been seen in the 2012 budget and in the 2013 Budget, and they continue for the next three years, and this is the tax discharge of the economy through a reduction in parafiscal burdens, a reduction in the labour price for a health contribution that has been reduced, the health rate itself by almost 14% and it will remain permanent with a tendency to further decrease. Encouragement measures for investment are the release of income tax on reinvested profits, but also significant allocations from the state budget for the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Because investment should also encourage the export economy. When we talk about state bank policy, then it is our policy to strengthen the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development which must become a real support to the export economy and investment. That this is how we can read from the 2012 and 2013 budget when a billion and 200 million kuna are paid to the core capital, and in 2014 and in the following years 600 million kunas are also planned for the year in the share capital. And we in this four-year term will be more in the core capital of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development than in the previous 14 years, 15 years. At the same time, with a planned payment of 600 million kuna in the founding capital, 350 million kuna is provided for preferential financing programmes under HBOR loans, primarily small and medium-sized enterprises, industry, tourism, environmental protection, agriculture and municipal infrastructure under more favourable conditions of the subsidized interest rate. And 100 million kuna payments to the Guarantee Fund for Export Insurance because we are aware that only export companies actually have an important impact on economic growth, or competitiveness, because they can compete in demanding markets of goods and services. The financial consolidation of economic operators is then continued. We've had a few tax-debt reprogrammes in these two years. At the same time, pre-fashion settlements are being conducted. The company's 10 billion kuna blockage has been reduced. Here we can often hear so how many liquid assets, or new funds, have come into the payment system. But here it's more important that 10 billion kunas are unblocked by companies that can continue to work. Because while you're blocked you can't even do business, you can't pay your dues, you can't pay your wages. It comes in one significant segment of the grey economy to equalise working conditions, to combat unfair competition and, of course, the grey cash business zone, which is a system of fiscalisation which, with many remarks that they will not succeed, proved to be very successful in 2013. Changes in the normative regulation of economic flows with an emphasis on investment and new employment were also almost fully completed in 2013. I'm going to set aside two essential laws. It is the Law on Strategic Investments and the Law on the Legalisation of Illegally Built Objects, which means editing of land books, which are the basic preconditions for future investment. From all of this I can finally say that the SDP club will also accept the State budget for 2014 with projections for the next two years with the corresponding documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59781	We're moving on to replicas now. First honorary Vice President of the House Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59782	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Vice President, here's the last word you say is that you will, of course, accept this budget. I didn't even think about it. However, since I asked my colleague Vuksic the same question and he very elegantly avoided it, so when I asked him about health care he told me about science which, of course, are completely different and items in the budget and all together, then I will ask you the same question again. In fact, when you say that this budget is transparent, the other things I won't pay any attention to at all, how can we talk about the budget that is transparent when the items of a difficult few billion are gone at all. And how will anyone, here's specifically you when you get back to your county and they ask you at Chakovsky Hospital if there will be more money or less money for the hospital, health care, whether there will be more money or less for polyclinical healthcare, whether there will be more or less money for prescription medicines, whether there will be more or less money for primary health care, whether it will be gone or not? You can't see that from this budget at all. There is no single indication of whether 10 billion or 2 billion will be given. So we're not talking about the items that are detailed, I repeat again at the level of 5 thousand kuna, and the items of 5 billion are skipped as if they were gone at all. It's a very big transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59783	The replica matches Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59784	In 2014 we also have a reform of the hospital system that will soon be presented and accepted in the Croatian Parliament. As far as I know, colleague Reiner, you were in one term and Minister of Health. And my Chakvez Hospital, in its term of office until 2000, was able to get out of the state budget and received 60 thousand kuna. Don't worry I'll know what it will explain in terms of reform and resources and in 2014 as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59785	The new replica stands for the respected Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59786	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Zgrebec, you were talking about the deficit. Since we adopted the 2012 State Budget Report, yesterday we discussed the proposal for a second rebalancing for 2013, meaning for this year, and today we have a proposal for 2014. When you add 10.5, 16.5 that's 27 and today you have 17.5 or 18 billion that's practically 45 billion deficits in 3 years. Therefore, Croatia's public debt increased by 45 billion kuna by three years. And if you take the average borrowing rate somewhere around 6.1% then interest in this year alone to that deficit over the past 3 years has increased 2.7 billion kuna. Also, no one argues that in this difficult situation when the Croatian economy cannot obtain credit that through HBOR is the most favourable. However, if you look at the financing account then you will see that these financing needs of 40 billion in 2014 have 600 million and 435, meaning a billion and 35 million funds allocated to HBOR. This is on page 3 under paragraph 5314 as regards 435 million and 5312 as regards these 600 million. Just so we can see that these HBOR funds don't give God that something bad happens aren't neutral for the state budget because if the HBOR doesn't come back tomorrow they can. So, just so much about the deficit, about the interest, about the growth of public debt. So this year you will not with this budget have the historical highest deficit of the existence of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59787	The replica matches the esteemed vice president of the House of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59788	So now I wouldn't say it's a record deficit, I read to you here by EUROSTAT's 2011 methodology 25.7% that's over 6% and 25.7 billion, respectively. We're all aware that the debt in a situation like this is growing abnormally rapidly. So I told you that in five years of crisis, we have achieved 80 billion deficits and 63 billion new debt. Look at this for three years, because you like to count it that way, 2009 to 2011. 64 billion deficits, 50 billion new debt. ... Don't throw it at me now, I've been listening to you, and you listen to me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59789	Dude, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59790	The fact is that what we are here is what we are and some future expenditures and payments are still going to have an additional one instead of this deficit that we are accomplishing, we're going to still have about 17 billion needs for new responsibilities if we don't have a better growth in the economy. And as for interest and that, I think you were still Minister of Finance in 2008. For Croatian roads we are in debt at a rate of 9.4%. What's more than 6.2? 2008 or 2009 [[/Intruder Shucker: What year?]] [[You're talking wrong.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59791	Comrade Shuker, let's stick to the Rules of Procedure and don't have a debate like this from the bench. Now we're going to hear the replica of Joza Radosha's colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59792	Comrade Zgrebec, I was just talking about two hard facts about this budget, and now I'm going to add two more. In fact, when the budget commitments for the 25.1 billion kuna and interest payments are added to the pension system costs that are equally unconditional of 35.9 billion kuna and the health system costs that are also unconditional of 20.6 billion kuna, then we get to 93 billion and 200 million kuna, which makes up 70% of the RH budget. With the remaining 37 billion kuna or less than 30% of the budget, education, culture of agriculture, defence, police, administration must be financed, and there should still be money left to encourage investment. But this basic fact that more than 70% of Croatia's budget is due to the repayment of debts, pensions and health insurance that you cannot reduce is wasted unconditionally, talks about the problems and difficulties faced by the one who put this budget together. And in these conditions at all make up... The budget is a big deal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59793	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed vice president of the House of Dear Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59794	We now meet or come to reality and actually come to a rough reality because in years of crisis we almost did nothing. We've been stockpiling deficits, we've been in debt, the economy's gone down, debt piled up. In two years of crisis, so from 2009 to 2010, the blockades on the giro accounts doubled. From 20 billion to 40 billion. This situation is unsustainable. In the short term, you cannot train the real sector that it can come to a high growth rate of 5 or 6% as we had before the crisis and which was not based on the real sector but on consumption. We have to go into what we now have on the side of the opposition, you have to use state property more adequately and at the cost that one part of that property and sell so that you can reduce the principal debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59795	The opportunity to replicate is now being given to counterpart Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59796	Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, at the end of your presentation, you also showed the adoption of the Law on Legalisation and the Law on Strategic Investments. I'm still going to link up the Investment Encouragement Act. Why? The budget is not the only way the government affects the economy in the Republic of Croatia or in general in all democratic countries. The laws are the basic instrument for which a government, a state, affects an economy in a country. Both this budget and its ambitions and its realities are essentially based on the instruments that this Government implements together with this Croatian Assembly in strengthening competitiveness and strengthening the economy but also on saving the economy of the one who has the chance, which has the chance to be competitive and strong on the European market tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59797	And this replica corresponds to the vice president of the House of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59798	I agree, in the last second, as much as my colleague Shucker can do. The government must provide an economic framework in which entrepreneurs will be able to carry out their economic activities normally. We forgot it in one segment or in one period. Therefore, at this point, the Government must still be engaged and the state budget must also help economic operators financially and in any other respect. It is most obvious here how much effort the Ministry of Finance is making in pre-departure settlements to one place bring together creditors and debtors and that they would agree on mutual relations with the debtor-religious relations. But entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship are responsible for the capital that invests in the economic process... It brings effects. [[You don't understand the speaker.]] And the government is responsible for ensuring a normal environment as regards legislation as well as market regulation that can be achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59799	Now let's listen to the replica of counterpart Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59800	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Vice President of the House, I think you'll have trouble getting this budget. Yesterday, these badges they carry or put on HNS's clubs say we're against the introduction of a real estate tax, today you welcomed the prime minister with this v. I guess then you'll be against the budget. But you were talking about the 2009-2011 deficit, and in the context of today's deficits, you often mention or are often said by the ruling coalition that today or next year is a deficit for a good reason for the resolution of the health system. Now, you are in position, Minister Linic, Prime Minister Milanovic can very easily take the documentation and see that in the 09th, 10th and 11th, there was no recovery of the health system, the clean start said that the obligations amounted to 4 billion and 600. Minister Linic said yesterday that obligations in the healthcare system are now over 6 billion kuna. And if we add a three-billion-dollar-and-300-million-dollar recovery, then there was no recovery today, the debts in the health system would be incredible 10 billion kunas. So you failed to reduce the liabilities actually totalling 4 billion and 600 million kuna. Not to say that in the 7th, 8th, 9th and 10th months, no single kuna for prescription drugs has been paid and a new debt of billions of kuna has accumulated. So, right now, let's see that most likely in the first three, four months, there will be a rebalancing of the state budget in 2014. It is already evident only because of health care and unreal expectations The growth in the economy of 1.2% is now evident that the deficit next year will be not 17 but at least 23 billion kuna. [[Intruder: Bring the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59801	Let us now listen to the reply to the replica, Vice President of the House Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59802	I won't comment on the badges, but I'll tell you what. The payment of old debts, which some invoices have not been paid for 400 to 900 days, is not any recovery. It's a debt recovery that occurred in one period. Despite the decrease in the rate of contribution to health insurance by two index points in 2012 and in 2013 as well as in 2014 it was collected almost at the same level or slightly more health contributions, this means only that more account was taken of the collection of contributions. You're talking about how much less employees are in that period, so you have fewer employees, you have a lower rate of 14%, at the same time you pick up contributions as you picked up when you had more employees, when you had a higher rate. And what about the health care recovery? The recovery of the hospital system, it's just coming for us. We're just about to have a colleague, Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59803	Thank you. Followed by the replica of representative Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59804	Thank you. My colleagues, these thesis on the seriousness of budget savings in this budget actually fall to credibility, so you should somehow try to show credibility. So, unfortunately, when an example and a whole series of examples undermine credibility and if there is no credibility, there is no trust. So, when we saw what can be done, how 50 million kunas simply through one political agreement can be placed through the Center of the Bank, when we see that it is ready to buy 132 ultra luxury SUVs at 450, 545 thousand kunas at an average price, and these vehicles are worthy that only Todorovic or such people of that category can afford it, not the state budget to buy, to conduct insights around Croatia in such vehicles, or to be driven by police chiefs, and such 132 luxury vehicles buy. Or when a whole series of unnecessary and very expensive agencies is established just to settle the needs of so-called. Let's say the coalition potentials that are manifested through the establishment, as long as a series of agencies lose credibility and how we and as an opposition will have trust in the good intentions of such a budget or in such calls for savings which, for example, significantly cut Slavonia by hundreds of millions of kunas and there is money for such and a whole series of similar very luxurious expenditures which, why obviously, there is when there is money and will to be realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59805	Replica reply, Vice President of the House of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59806	I didn't hear anyone here, nor did the Prime Minister, who was opening the budget, so I didn't speak for the club or call for any savings. You can save when you have and in this budget you can no longer save because you have a default, your colleague Radoš used to say, which you have given, which you have to pay no matter the amount of income. You just have to, if you can't do it then the state goes bankrupt. As far as the Center of the Bank is concerned, there's nothing out of the budget that's been allocated to the center of the bank. And as for the suspension of Slavonia or other areas, I could say that my Međimurje has been cut off and that Zagorje has been suspended and that Dalmatia has been suspended, so all of Croatia has been cut off because there are no investments, and in order to have investments, we have to have good projects, projects that will return finances in the short or longer term, unfortunately such projects in this time of crisis have not been. The last major projects were highways. It was supposed to continue with the railroad. This is the infrastructure in which the state or investment holder should invest to be a state because their return is on a long-term basis and few entrepreneurs will invest in such investments in the long term. Unfortunately, it wasn't there.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59807	And the last replica, respected Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59808	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues of Zgrebec, well, yesterday we actually spent a day here to discuss what it was and how it was and trying to identify who they were and who are responsible for this current state. In some ways, I expected us to go in a different direction today, which is that we are going in the direction of that time in front of us and actually I would like to remind you that by the fact that the SDP is leading the ruling coalition, it is the greatest responsibility to look forward and lead the country forward. Without such a plan, without such a view, without a vision of economic growth, without a vision of how we will live better, unfortunately we will remain trapped and especially in this House of debates about the past. And the past is what it is, it can't change and it won't be better than any of us and you love and you talk and you mention numbers. So these numbers say, here, please, let's go to the website of the Croatian National Bank and look at the table of the debt of the general state. The table says the debt, along with guarantees, has increased by 75 billion since the end of 2011. For 8 months this year, the end of 2011.36 billion. It is, therefore, a fact that the measures and structures of the economic policy measures you have implemented unfortunately do not produce results and therefore something in these measures should change in that structure. ... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59809	Thank you. Time's up. Let's listen to the reply to the replica of House Vice President Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59810	I really didn't talk about the past in terms of criticism. I've used a few figures related to the crisis years that have a significant impact on the present and perhaps a few years to the future. I'm really looking forward to your exposure because you're going to be talking about the future, I hope, at least in this replica you've talked more about the past and almost nothing about the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59811	We're continuing the club debate. I call upon the esteemed Martin Dalic to introduce us to the positions of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59812	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Here today we are actually continuing in a certain way our debate from yesterday and ahead of us is the 2014 budget. The first question that I have about this budget is whether its execution will be better and more closely linked to what we are discussing today than it was to implement the 2013 budget? I would say that the analysis of these budget items shows that there is a certain likelihood that the implementation of this budget could be closer to the plan that we are discussing today than it was in 2013 or I would say that there is a likelihood that the deficit will not be broken by 60% in 2014. With all the tensions contained in this budget as at the end and each budget, this result is achieved at the level of the 17.5 billion deficit or 5% of GDP, where this share of GDP is the result of the GDP which we will say is estimated rather ambitiously I would say optimistically. So these 5% of GDP could also turn into 5.5%, but what I'm saying is that this budget clearly shows that Croatian public finances are working simply at a balanced level of deficit between 5 and 5.5% of GDP, and unfortunately this budget shows what we discussed yesterday, and that is that we are still facing the task of fiscal consolidation. The draft budgetor, however, mentions in his own explanation and indicates the possibility that it could be rebalanced or audited if the European Commission is not satisfied with it. But a little later on. What does this budget actually bring and demonstrate? It shows that the salaries of civil servants will remain frozen, at the current level of wages and current employment, that there will be a reduction in the amount of pension funds that I assume will result from the reduction of pensions set by specific rules, which can be concluded from the fact that the weight of the pension funds in the 2014 budget falls compared to 2013. Therefore, there must be a reduction of at least some categories of pensions. This budget shows that healthcare will continue to generate losses and unacceptably long payment deadlines because health funds are moving around at around 2012 level, and there is no indication that essential changes could occur in the health system that would make the entire system more financially efficient. The budget also shows something that would deserve a little more detailed explanation, so I hope the minister will do so or demonstrates a different way to distribute funds that leave the fuel price to Croatian highways. The budget predicts that the fuel price funds used today by the Croatian highways will be rerouted in the next year towards the Croatian Railways 440 million, Croatian roads slightly more than 300 million and that the Croatian highways will remain 440 million kunas from these funds. This section of the budget I think would require a more detailed explanation which such measures intend to achieve. The general budget also brings that subsidies to Croatian railways will increase by 280 million kuna. I am talking about subsidies paid out of my own budget, which shows that the government, which I think is good, is giving up the policy so far that they are actually showing savings in the budget, and then giving Croatian railways guarantees because by increasing subsidies and by directing funds from the price of Croatia's railways, they will return somewhere to the level of budget spending as they were during 2011. In general, HZ should be a significant beneficiary of European funds. It also shows this budget what we expect Croatia will start to use European funds amounting to 2.1 billion kuna and funds from the common agricultural policy of around 858 million kuna. What is not good, however, is not good that the budget does not show and does not show which projects will be financed from EU funds, although it would be possible to show in the budget projects that are state-level or those that will be financed from the Cohesion Fund. So far, it has been a custom now, unfortunately, we don't see what these projects are and we can't tell how realistic this plan is. I hope that when and if there is a rebalancing of this budget that the funds planned for withdrawal from European funds will not be subject to rebalancing and reduction. And of course what we've discussed and this budget behind it hides tax changes, i.e. an increase in rate. However, what is not evident from the budget itself does not show how and how economic growth will be realised. The Prime Minister spoke of this very briefly and very rudely in his opening statement. However, I think we all agree that Croatian budgetary problems are unsecured without economic growth, that we agree that the growing tensions in Croatian society are unsecured without growth. Croatia will not be a successful member of the European Union unless the Croatian economy recovers and grows more intensively. As a result, we believe that, together with this budget, there is one important segment, one important part of economic policy, which is actually a comprehensive and mutually coherent economic growth plan. Such a plan is needed to make it clear to the entire Croatian public and to the general and economical public that the government has a vision for the recovery of the Croatian economy, but to clearly show what these measures are, to be compatible with each other, that is, to encourage what is said through that plan, and that is missing optimism. Such a plan is necessary if you allow Mr. Prime Minister and you, as an instrument of coordination and guidance of the work of different resistors. One of the biggest objections to your economic policy is in fact the inconsistency and non-harmonisation of action in different resolutions, and then some measures have turned out and are particularly stressed. The Prime Minister pointed out in the introduction of some areas where he sees economic growth, however, and measures with which, as mentioned in principle, as we can agree, they also require more effective development and mutual coherence and the identification of priorities. But allow me, and the areas you have highlighted are not enough and are not comprehensive. One of the reasons why and why address economic growth, one of the logical ways is to look at what bothers entrepreneurs in Croatia, which is what prevents business. Lately, as one of the most important obstacles to business, economic policy instability and change in economic policy are under way. In the plan for economic growth and recovery, it is necessary to promise and guarantee both Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs that the mention and continuous reference and indication of the possibility of changing and increasing taxes will cease. I am extremely pleased that you, Mr. Prime Minister, have confirmed that this is not the time and not the time and that the introduction of real estate taxes will not be. I believe that you can guarantee the Croatian public that by the end of your term, tax measures will cease to be mentioned and stop mentioning the possibility of changing and increasing taxes. This is an important point of a consistent growth plan. Other important topics are certainly improving business and investment conditions. There are at least three urgent things to do right now. First, public administration reform. For years, it has been uncontested, for years, not only these, but not just the past, inefficient public administration is mentioned and spoken of and referred to as a major obstacle to investment and investment in Croatia. State bureaucracy must establish the quality of its services and the speed of its services as a basic criterion of its work, and therefore two things must be done. On the one hand, it is different to organise state institutions in order to remove overlapping of their transactions and to reduce the fact that investors walk from one state service to another. On the other hand, this reform should be based on mechanisms to reward and motivate work, responsibility and take responsibility for decision-making, and slowness and irresponsibility should be demoted. The Croatian State Administration must start to decide because its unwillingness to decide is not just the case today, yesterday, it has been the case for a long time, its unwillingness to decide obstacles to Croatia's economic recovery. We already discussed this topic in this house, and last night, a colleague of Bozinovic talked about it, but about 23 hours, so there were few who heard it. Another important thing to improve business conditions and economic recovery is the effective removal of legal barriers to business because they prevent investors from investing in Croatia. We have harmonised our legislation with the European Union, but in these laws we have to recognise there are a number of provisions that are either no longer relevant or cause unnecessary costs. Wouldn't it be useful to think about opening a permanent channel of communication with the business community, with entrepreneurs, using modern information technology to open a channel through which each of them could simply indicate where they are and what obstacles they are to business? State bureaucracy is no longer able to recognise the legal provisions that make up the obstacle and which make unnecessary costs. This is part of the reason and its expertise. And the most developed countries maintain dialogue with entrepreneurs at the highest level to actually hear what it is that bothers entrepreneurs, and in addition to the dialogue which unfortunately has very little need and systematic approach in creating a mechanism that will allow for the removal of what Croatia unfortunately has put under one subtitle that says "anything but Croatia". Starting economic growth means preparedness to react, and ready to change what is not good. The pre-fashion law is not being implemented well. It is carried out to the detriment of small entrepreneurs. True, it was brought to this House unanimously but we can see that there are inadequate phenomena in its implementation and what we didn't expect. Starting economic growth also requires everyone to do their job very quickly. Health reform, without it as we can see, will not be possible to stabilise the Croatian budget nor will it be possible to preserve quality health care. It's not easy. Slovenian Health Minister resigns, but without this reform neither will Croatian citizens nor It is possible for entrepreneurs to open growth perspectives and tax reduction perspectives. [[Intruder Stazic: Bring the end please.]] Another sentence, Mr. Vice President. I could still count. However, without such moves, without a clear plan of work, without a clear plan of reforms, economic growth will not in itself arise, and this will not solve the budgetary problems we are discussing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59813	Thank you. We're now moving on to replicas that are exactly 14. The first one will be taken out by colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59814	That Mrs. Dalic says she has no investment, no growth. Why don't the locals invest? I can tell. For example, I ask myself why foreigners do not invest and foreigners hold between 26.27% of the Croatian economy, the Croatian economy. So we are, among other things, deeply dependent on their capital whether it's banks, T-HT, BUIK, Ipsion, etc. The investment doesn't have Mrs. Dalic. And I am now asking you whether these investments, foreign investments, help, for example, these daily cry "for home ready" and full stadiums in one Maximir or, say, down in Split. Do investment help these organised acts against the government, say, the president of the state and the President of the Parliament in Vukovar? But get back to that home-ready thing. The whole world has condemned it. Imagine what would happen if a stadium in Munchen ran a sieg hei. What do you think, that Mrs. Dalic and you in HDZ, who, among other things, support it, is that... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59815	Don't throw away your colleagues. We'll hear a reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59816	Dear fellow Cain, you have now resorted to a very often used method in this House that he does not deserve. If you don't know what to say, if you don't know how to get involved in the discussion of the topics we're discussing today, then I'm asking a colleague just that Then you'll move on. [[Stazić: colleague Cain, do not throw.]] Then you give examples that signal growing tensions in our society. Yes, colleague Cain, so no one is blind by healthy eyes. In Croatian society, tensions arise between different groups and manifest in different ways and are not good ways. However, in order to overcome these tensions, Croatia's economic recovery is an absolute priority, and I personally believe that all the strengths that Croatia has must be invested. Today, the coalition that is leading Croatia is the one that should play a decisive role in the nature of things because it is in power and that is all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59817	Now we'll hear the replica of Srdjan Gjurkovic's colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59818	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, you said that the excessive deficit was 60% broken against the planned for 2013 and everyone is clear and including you, but it should then be clear to the public that only changed the methodology of how to calculate the deficits, which is why this deficit is 60% higher than planned. So, as far as the methodology is concerned. As regards this efficiency and efficiency of the administration, or as the administration is often said, and sometimes red tape, it should be made clear that this government of reforms it implements, therefore there are resistances and will implement with this budget so that it can be achieved and that economic growth can be achieved and the reduction of the deficit tomorrow is essentially aimed at not reforming, but at managing costs and optimising the consumption of budget money.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59819	Let us listen to the reply to the replica of the esteemed Martine Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59820	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Gjurkovic, I don't know and I don't remember you were in the assembly yesterday, but the budget rebalancing can be described in one table by the same methodology. We here in Croatia have not changed the final plan and the way the deficits are displayed and yesterday we discussed a rebalancing that says 10.2 billion kuna deficit changes to 16.2. So I wouldn't actually talk about it anymore. I think fellow Gjurkovic will agree with me that the very situation in which we find ourselves that a number of negative trends that are readable from the movement of different economic indicators simply points to a sound conclusion that it is necessary to move faster, stronger and that it is necessary in economic policy to add something, something to change. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59821	Followed by the replica of Vice President of the House, the esteemed Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59822	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So that this Parliament functions as normally as it should then, the chairman of counterpart Caine, said a warning because he violated Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of this Parliament. But, of course, by ruling their violence, they show what they think all the time, so I prefer that you fellow Dalic actually gave a very constructive set of proposals to solve the problem and how to achieve economic growth. Of course, if the ruling wants to listen to it, excellent. I think you've given a number of concrete advice and good examples. Likely, they will not listen to this because they have not listened to a number of other counsel. It is likely that it will continue to go the way which is unfortunately indicated in this budget, ignoring reality, arguing that economic growth will in itself come with fantastic growth, and we see what has been going on for the last two years, we see that they have predicted and achieved this by reducing pensions, we see that the story of health reform has absolutely not been done in two years except by 2% of the contribution to health care and thus the health care has taken away from 2 to 2.5 billion kuna. Then when a 3.3 billion loan is raised, it is explained by a whole series of other things, etc., and not that health care is too little money and that this budget will lack around 4 billion kunas for the functioning of health care. And it'll probably be like some big surprise, big surprise, etc. And that a whole series of things will have to be dealt with again in this budget by raising credit only who knows what interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59823	A fellow Reiner is not a replica of an institute that warns against the violation of the Rules of Procedure. That's why in our Rules of Procedure, we have the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Because you called me. ... And now we will hear the answer to the replica of the esteemed Martin... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59824	My colleague, I am asking you on behalf of the HDZ Club to treat all MPs in this House equally. If you warned a fellow Reiner far more reason was to warn a colleague of Cain. You can't run a session like you do. You're the first among the equals here right now, but we've determined how you're going to run the session. And please refrain nicely from commenting.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59825	My colleague Shuker told me that I did not respect the Rules of Procedure, and I tell him that the breach of the Rules of Procedure does not occur every time someone says something about HDZ that you do not like. Let's hear the answer to the replica of colleague Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59826	Thank you very much. So esteemed counterpart Reiner, of course, because of the shortness of time, may not have been able to discuss in more detail and put this budget in the context of Croatia's international position in the EU, its participation in the European semester and the fulfilment of obligations under the excessive deficit procedure. In fact, at one point, the proponent in the budget's reasoning says that unless such a budget meets the requirements of the excessive deficit procedure, it will have to be audited. And a lot is actually being debated to what extent and how the European Commission will influence or try to influence the Croatian budget. I would say that this will be resolved in the dialogue between the Government and the European Commission, but what is quite certain is that the European Commission will limit it less and affect our budget which the Government has more concrete and stronger arguments about how the deficit will be below 3%. Unfortunately, these projections that are ahead of us in neither of the next three years predict that this deficit would fall below 3% according to our methodology. Therefore, there will certainly be a lot of talks and a lot of negotiations, and these negotiations in Croatia could and should, in my opinion, be much better and much more successful if the government had exactly what I was talking about, which is a consistent, comprehensive and well-oriented economic growth plan with clear priorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59827	Follow the replica of counterpart Darko Milinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59828	Dear Representative Dalic, here is the debate some would like to switch to ideological divisions. The characteristics of this budget are for an excessive deficit... It's a characteristic of this budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have expressed your mild optimism that there will be no breakout of the 60% deficit I must say that I would probably like and everyone in this assembly and citizens would like that deficit not to happen like this year of 60% but they themselves have admitted that VAT income did not justify expectations. And all indicators say that this is the way it will be next year and that VAT will not justify its expectations, i.e. filling the budget will not be as expected. You've also expressed hope that he won't mention a property tax that would hit the highest level. I'm not sure, after the first, three, four months when they see that the budget doesn't fill well, they'll probably reopen the real estate tax issue. Why am I still not optimistic? They based this budget on economic growth of 1.2%. The European Commission, European Commission estimates 0.4, 0.5%. So this gives me all the right to believe that the budget may not break 60% in percent, but nominally now 6 billion kunas are only from these indicators, it is evident that both this and the next deficit will be not 17, but somewhere around 23 billion kuna. You said the same way that HZZO stayed at the level of 2013, no, it didn't look. The budget for HZO after the rebalancing is 23 and a half billion kuna. Now it's back to 20 billion and 500 million kuna. So, for three billion kuna, the HZZO budget is again lower than it was in 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59829	Replication response, esteemed Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59830	Thank you very much. So when, finally and finally, we talk about the perspectives of this budget, I would say again, I don't think that doing a budget revision is something that is not acceptable or not possible and it is, of course, based on the law and different errors are always possible. What I really hope is that the error in this budget will not be as great as it was in 2013. Moreover, I would like to remind you that in the same place as the year before 2013 when we were making a budget for the Prime Minister, I promised that if he were to be the one to propose the 2014 budget, then he would be planned in a different way. Then those who plan the budget will be faced with a more difficult task because the planning process itself must improve it. I therefore expect that such a promise that was made a year ago will actually be realized in 2014. because the government talks a lot about order, a lot of talk about introducing order and I think if it really honestly decided to stick to the postulate order that then one of the signs of order is also the implementation of the budget in the way it was adopted by the Parliament, because we do not forget the budget is a parliamentary document and in this sense we have the character of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59831	Followed by a replica of a colleague of the Vesna Railway. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59832	Dear Parliamentarians, in your address you said that the budget frozen pay items for and for pensions. Of course, I'm asking you, in such conditions, to raise wages in the public sector, but you also need to know, and you've heard that I hope in the opening statement of the prime minister that there will be no retirement cuts, but that the harmonisation of pensions applies to those pensions that are greater than 5 and a half thousand kunas, meaning that they are greater than the average salary in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59833	Replication response, Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59834	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, so I'm really, really sorry. Namely, what you said I said, but I actually wanted to commend you because the mass pays exactly as planned in the budget corresponds to the last monthly cost times 12, so I concluded that this item is realistically planned in case there is no salary increase. The amount of pension funds is planned for EUR 208 million less than this year, there is no other way. To make such a plan come true, if it's real, but to retire. So far, we hear it's about pensions under special regulations, whether it's just them or others I don't know about. But I don't think you probably know either, because it doesn't say anything in the budget's explanation, very simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59835	Followed by the replica of the Vice President of the House, dear dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59836	Thank you very much. My colleague Dalic, I really like listening to your analysis, but unfortunately they come at least 3 or 4 years too late because behind such analyses they should have been determined. But I'd like to comment on some parts of your exposure. You're saying, you need to make a plan for economic growth, I agree, there's no such paper, but there are no 23 years, there are certain measures and guidelines and moves about it, and it really might be good if we had one piece of paper where we're going to collect it all in one place. You're talking about the need to contact entrepreneurs. I agree with that, too. Surely entrepreneurs also want to say these contacts that the Ministry of Finance has, continuously with those who are in trouble, if you mean the Croatian Employers' Association where only one part of the entrepreneurs is involved, then I will tell you they tell you to introduce financial discipline, and when you introduce financial discipline says it is the press on entrepreneurs. That simple, probably not the kind of contact it can be. You're talking about the stability of economic policy which is a prerequisite for economic growth, I agree. Only when you have instability in society will you have to find measures in several areas to solve problems and come to stability and economic policy and stability in society. And in fact, I only volunteered because of HZ you have to restructure, prepare the railway for investment, and then give for investment from the state budget, and not as we've been subsidizing for years for the state budget that was supposed to go into investment, and they ended up in salaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59837	Let us listen to the answer of the esteemed Martin Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59838	Dear colleagues of Zgrebe allow me to respond to the first part of your replica personally because in some ways it is personally addressed. Mrs. Zgrebec, my analysis is quite consistent and available to everyone for use. Part of my analysis is also included in the document Strategic Framework for Development, which was the official document of several Croatian governments and is a fundamental document called for by operational programmes for the use of European funds, which your government has sent to the commission adopted and on the basis of which European funds will be used in the second half of this year. So much for my analysis. I don't want to talk about it anymore. The issue of stability of economic policy, we exactly agree that economic policy measures must be taken in several areas but the way in which the water must be aligned, must be mutually consistent, not the opposite. And because of this, total coordination of what the resistors do and how they do is of immense importance. And third and last, HZ, I didn't say anything about HZ except that I still expect Mr. Minister to have the opportunity to explain what goals the plans want to achieve by changing the way and users share in the fuel price used today by Croatian highways. This is, however, an important and important change contained in this budget, in which there is no explanation in neither the budget documents nor the speeches of the government's representatives so far spoken.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59839	Thank you very much. The seventh line is Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59840	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Dalic, you have indicated a pension reduction. We heard clearly today that the prime minister said that pensions under special regulations would be a 10% reduction for all those who have over 5,000 kuna. Again, it is about the disabled people of the Homeland War, widows, parents of the dead, children of the dead defenders, and I think that this population once suffered a burden of crisis from 4 to 6%, and then another time with 10%, and nothing revolutionary happened in the budget one year when we were almost solid about it even though we were reluctant to accept it and said that this population was neither responsible for the crisis nor for the lack of resources nor for the implementation of reforms, nor for the failures of any government. Today, 10% are being announced again, and it will also not help to get out of the crisis, nor will it fill the state budget. It would be more filled in by the measures that have been taken, more would be filled in by your proposals that speak of concrete things that need to be rationalized. It will certainly not contribute to the fact that some can benefit from the budget, the increase in employment and the administration you spoke of, regardless of the visible indicators of salary increases, but there is an increase in the administration in the state service, thus increasing the costs for them. The defensive population, the fatalist population, is certainly not the one on which the crisis or failure or incompetence of any authority, especially one that shows that there is no positive effect in its rule for two years. I believe you understand that well, you know how to remove and solve this 8th time when it will reduce pensions by special it will not contribute to any improvement in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59841	Time. Followed by Domagoj Milosevic's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59842	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Dalic, you and we have mentioned several times what is unmarked on this side of the assembly today. So other than the unmarked deficit in this amount in 2013 what is unmarked is growth relative to the plan more than 60% of the deficit for this year. These are the causes of our problems. The causes of our problems are, in fact, what is also unmarked, which is that more than a thousand people are left out of work every working day, what is unrecorded, and this is apathy, the pessimism of the private sector, hence the Croatian economy, which should trigger the resolution of all these problems in the budget and the unmarked hopelessness and apathy of Croatian citizens. And finally allow me here another sentence to say what is also unmarked. It has been unrecorded that over the past six months, emissions in electronic media have been cut off on HRT, or in emissions that still exist, there is no face-to-face of government and opposition representatives. It's unmarked. I think that all together in this assembly should be extremely concerned, and the citizens certainly regretted and disappointed by that fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59843	This replica matches Martin Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59844	I think, however, that, given the expectations that Croatian citizens have from the government in the first place, but certainly from all of us who have the honour and privilege to discuss in this House, I think it is important to say that Croatia can do better and that poverty is not our destiny, but we must work to avoid this fate. And that's exactly why I did speak on behalf of the HDZ Club as I spoke. We need to turn to the future, we need to turn to the future, we need to turn forward, and we need to start solving real and real problems that prevent our economic recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59845	Followed by the replica of Fran Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59846	Thank you. Fellow Dalic, you have well noticed that Mr. Prime Minister in his performance referred very much to economic growth and projections of economic growth. Well, that's not strange to me, actually, in his place I wouldn't look back at economic growth at all, because when he was planning the 2012 budget, he was planning on making economic growth 2%. That's the year we ended up with -2%, so a minus 2%. The following year, therefore, this current one still planned to grow 1.8% in 2013 and still has 0.2% in the documents in yesterday's rebalancing, which is likely to be adopted by this ruling coalition on Friday, so there is still a growth of 0.2%, although all analyses and all analysts are very clear that the decline will be at -0.8% to 1% somewhere. So it would be better not to predict although in a certain sense it was even optimistic for 2016. The reason for this is likely to lie in the fact that in 2015 there will be elections so that it admits itself actually that it will come better after 2016. Second thing, pre-warrant settlement. You said cases of pre-fashion settlements that actually pre-banking deals were done at the expense of small entrepreneurship, small craftsmen, etc. But it would be good to hear for the sake of transparency, maybe here's to put in charge of the Prime Minister, ask him to publish the names of all the companies with the names of their owners whose state has forgiven the debts in a pre-war settlement. I think it would be good for the Croatian public to see the exact information and the truth about the companies and their owners whose state has forgiven the debt. That's good for the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59847	Thank you very much. It will now be replicated by Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59848	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Dalic, you said this budget shows spending on a common agricultural policy of 850 million. And now that I have pointed out in this House of Highs a difficult situation in agriculture, a truly unsustainable state, I would have to clap. But unfortunately, now in ours because agriculture is such a cycle that it can produce results after 5-6 years when something goes wrong, after 5-6 years, it's not a job, to get into agriculture and 2 billion kunas, it can't fix this condition that it is, and unfortunately today in one press release, where on the front page it's said how much import of milk, meat, everything confirms what I've warned about. But unfortunately, there is another problem, namely the European Commission gave the Ministry of Agriculture a short time ago where they said they refused in some way the Rural Development Strategy. They said they needed to be improved, clearly set up and differentiated. The programmes were due to be completed by May 30th, and for the commission to consider a programme it takes 6-9 months and I am unfortunately afraid that another year will be lost to withdrawing those funds. God forbid I'm wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59849	We'll hear the replica of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59850	Thank you very much. Comrade Dalic, you have spoken of certain areas which this budget would say disbalance. What I wanted to tell you in my budget and what I wanted to tell you is that this government that is here announces, in the savings speech, it's cut off in all fields, it's nothing like that government that's the same political option, the same political sign that it is in France, Mr. Francois Hollande. So we know what Hollande has learned in terms of saving in France. And if saving refers to our Slavic counties being denied several times, so I'm talking about 200, 300%, so on. liquid aid. Like what? Here is the Ship-Posavina County in 2013 had current aids along with cities, municipalities 64 million kuna, in 2014 projected 5 million and 800 thousand. So it's almost 12 times or 1200%, and that's how it's over in all the countys even though we had the Prime Minister's oath that it would be different with Slavonia, but it's said everywhere it is. But here we are looking at Sisak-Moslavina County whose ongoing aid for the development of the automotive industry in Sisak and its surroundings with 570,000 for the past year is increasing to 2 million and 600 thousand kuna. So it's not the archaic for everything equal, I'm talking about it, this time I'm talking about geographical areas, not the areas of economy and life, about each other. So it's not the same everywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59851	Thank you very much. Time's up. Next up is Branko Bačić's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59852	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Dalić, you were mostly facing the future in your presentation and according to your view and view of the club how and how the budget should be formed as a basic financial document. So there you gave a few suggestions and suggestions how and how to try to get out of this difficult economic crisis in the Republic of Croatia and you listed reforms and the public sector, but you also mentioned in part the removal of legal barriers that the barriers prevent investment in the Republic of Croatia. However, it is very interesting that in the past few months we have been witnessing that the Government, under the removal of legal barriers, involves reducing the powers of units of local self-government, so the laws on spatial planning, the laws on construction, the Law on Strategic Investment Projects and the Law on Regional Development are discussed. But apart from the government doing further centralization and reducing the powers of the local self-government unit last week, we also discussed the laws that will be taken to the individual units of local self-government, which are precisely the poorest units of local self-government in Croatia, by amending the laws, for example, on areas of special state care, the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, the Law on the City of Vukovar takes up to 35%. For example, we heard Imotski will be amended by law, and without a transitional period next year take about 7 million kuna, representing about 30% of the city's budget. I can ask you a question, but perhaps better to the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance, so that, for example, the Croatian Government would behave if the European Commission or the European Parliament passed a law to whom our budget without subsidies, without any transitional period, would take 30% of the budget, which is about 35 billion kuna and how and how we will then implement next year in the Republic of Croatia and how we would finance everything financed from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59853	Thank you. The last line is Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59854	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Dalic, all of what you have said requires political will and if there is political will then all of this can be done. But did you in the air ever feel that political will to expose our prime minister? You're not. Could you identify in the budget any sign of any reforms? You're not. Whether the prime minister referred to what the Croatian public will be very excited and what will upset the Croatian public again, which is that HAC and HC will no longer receive the funds they received. It's about a billion kuna for everyone on the annual level, and that's what I mean by the Law on Public Roads. Therefore, if they already wanted to do what they proposed in the budget, then they had to amend the Law on Public Roads. Because why this change and clearly obtain courage here in the Croatian Parliament in front of representatives and the Croatian public tell the gentlemen we sell Croatian highways, gentlemen those funds you received through the Croatian road maintenance roads you will no longer get. But I'm glad that because of the nicer picture of the deficit, more HZ will not be issued guarantees like two and a half billion kunas were issued in the previous year, but HZ returns to the budget. But in order to get a share of these funds from excise duties such as Croatian roads and Croatian highways, it must be incorporated into the law and that law must have been proposed to this House of Commons. Because if it wasn't proposed to this High House, then those funds can't be put in the position of the budget as they are put in place. But I repeat, fellow Dalic, did you feel the political will of the Prime Minister to have these changes happen? I'm not. And you?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59855	We will remain denied for the answer, as counterpart Dalic did not answer. Here, after 35 minutes of replication, we continue to discuss the clubs, so I invite my esteemed colleague, Damir Cain, to present the views of the Independent Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59856	Your Honor, Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, Your Honor, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yeah, I should be warned, I should be punished, I guess I should be shot because I'm warning about what's going on in one Maxim, Split or Vukovar. And those who crawled to express their nationalism should not be condemned, but should probably be rewarded. And yes, it can be with such politics to power. But No, no. [[Stazić: Dear Cain, connect this to the budget in some way.]] Why am I saying that, Mr. Vice President? If the State Department warns Croatia, if the EU warns Croatia, if investors are relieved of what is happening in Croatia, then all of this contributes under quotes to growth and recovery. I just want to say that with such Croatia, serious people don't want to have to deal with it. And I just want to say that what happens is a responsibility to everyone and to those who do it and who do it and who don't judge it, and to those who fight it. Because this is why Croatia is simply feeling damage. And I'll keep saying that. That's why we feel damage. Yesterday I said in my debate that we were a desolation country. And once again, I can tell the prime minister in prison, two vice presidents in prison, four or five ministers, there is no job, we read which took place in Croatia that's why someone didn't get bribes and so on. Until the change of government wanted someone to admit or not happened or it happened at the most difficult moment, but clearly there's no going back. We all know that 150,000 jobs have been lost here since the start of the crisis. Where? In the real sector. 30,000 people have been hired since that time in 2008 to this day in the upgrade, and that's not how it works anymore. Maybe it's right for those of you who said 2012 was supposed to adjust salaries, don't retire, God forbid. Clear where? In the public sector, but it's just not possible anymore. We see how that goes, for example, in health care. What is the condition of this survival of the budget of this kind of substantiation on our benches for 2014? This is primarily the correction of part of the tax and this is the hope of growth next year of 1.3%. In 2012 and 2013, in addition to the growth of VAT, which jumped from 23% to 25%, which was very much felt by our fellow citizens, then went down at the hospitality to 10% and now returns to 13 even though I didn't notice that anyone had dropped prices, all the other taxes wanted to admit it and the parafiscal burdens went down. In two years, 8 billion kuna was left to the economy, but the burden of the crisis is too high. The greatest benefits were large, at least, some benefits but far less small companies. In 2013, we had 49% of the €119 billion budget for citizens' rights, social welfare, pensions, 23% for employees, 16% for the payment of the principal interest, 5.7% for subsidies, 4.7 billion for local self-government, mountain and mountain areas, of special state care, islands, Vukovar etc. and so on. And what is the structure of that budget? In 2013, the total revenue of 110 billion kuna, 2014 is planned to be 113 billion. The spending this year is 126.8 billion, the next 130.5 billion. The deficit, 16.2 billion this year, next 17.4, public debt 58.1%, 62% next year. However, without the Croatian roads, without the Rijeka-Zagreb highway or vice versa, without the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Duties this year 31.1 billion, the next 40.5 billion. But with a consolidated state, i.e. with local self-government, i.e. plus Croatian roads, plus Croatian water will be 19.2 billion kuna or 5.5% of GDP. This year we see that the most tax evasion is 2.4 billion, and I don't know if it'll make up for the mini tax reform. It can, if GDP increases for those planned 1.3 or I don't know how much, then it would be cca 5 billion kuna in Croatia's GDP, from which the state can settle with 50%, it's cca 2.5 billion kuna, and if it doesn't, then it can be questioned by both the IMF and this property tax and the salary correction, pension goes down, the defence population mostly over 5500 kuna. I don't know if there's any more privatisations. Speaking of this IMF, the prime minister said we're not thinking about it. That's got to be good. I'm afraid it would be one severe blow to public service wages, but there's definitely the same thing to do, not that local self-government has salaries 20 to 40% higher than public service salaries. Same job, I guess. I know it's not the same to live in one I don't know of Denia and Lower Lapca. It's more expensive in Poreč. It must be harder in Lapca. In one Dubrovnik, it's incomparably more expensive than in Poreč, but that's just the way it is. The tax on property, let the DORH for the start perhaps implement the origin of the property, not that individuals who are sold as economic geniuses have more or could have gained more in one term than I know Indian maharads over the centuries. With that tax, I'm also afraid that I could grab the poor, even though the first real estate deal is equal to the communal fee, the other real estate I don't know the inherited antiques, the cottage equal communal fee, and that's fine. And the third, fourth, then let it be paid even though there should be the same caution about the non-functioning country and the like. Salary, this second-income tax thing is fine by me. Why? For example, 850 million kuna bonuses that Croatian bank directors have shared since the start of the crisis here. We all see ourselves in debt means 40.5 billion kuna plus 3 billion for Croatian roads and Croatian waters. So that's $43.5 billion. Now, out of these 43.5 billion kunas, 22.5 billion kuna goes to settle old debts, so budget minuses, and our deficit is $17.4 billion. To return to taxes, excise duties on cigarettes go up, VAT we see this correction is not as much a problem for the caterers as the problem might be, for example, the water line that is right for water etc., etc. The state doesn't seem to know that it intends to withdraw dividends from public companies from the INA that have been left with 1.9 billion kunas and that they can't modernise the pumps, invest in refineries and that sort of thing. How are we doing with the ministries? So in 2013, agriculture will be allocated almost 900 million kuna more in the following year. In education some 100 million kunas more, pensions remain the same, I agree, mostly the defence population goes to the disabled if they have more than 5.5 thousand kunas down there. The MUP goes up, 500 million kunas entrepreneurship also goes somewhere around 500 million kunas up, the economy is going down 200 million kunas, the defender goes down a hundred million, at the defenses of a hundred million kunas down. Most of the time, we see that they're slightly bigger expenses. The living savings effect is only seen in three years, so in 2013, 191.5 million kunas were paid, 2014 again is paid 200.2 million kunas, 2015.138.8 million kunas, the effect will only be seen for the fourth year. The problem with the reserve may be parafiscal loads. We need to redefine the entire state, not just the state administration, health care, education, we simply and the tourist communities have 310, local self-government 556 and not to count, just go on. It is clear that the importance of economic survival is that the most interest should be made there; banks should in some way be satisfied, although 288.3 billion kunas will not be charged by the bank, 44.2 billion kuna or 15.3% and their profits have fallen significantly. But it's fortunate that we banks shouldn't have been rescheduled, for example. One Austria has singled out or singled out 6 billion euros for the recovery of its banking system, and there remains funds so I will not say only Europe but our and European funds because we must, let's say, pay Brussels that membership fee to call it 3.6 billion kuna. This year we have paid 260m euros, we will withdraw 266m euros from possible 450, slightly more. What I am most pleased about is that we will withdraw 49m euros from these funds in Istria for the infrastructure of the city of Poreč and Vrsar. I dare say that this is the budget of one continuity, I'll say peace, except for the defense population this and I've always been able to make a disabled person truly that one kuna no less, it's a budget without surprise, preserving standards and preserving existing low spending but if he doesn't grow GDP next year and then I'm afraid we'll find ourselves in serious problems. And once again investment, foreigners still have 26.37% of all shares estimated at 86.7% of billions of kuna. I will once again begin to make what has been happening in this country these last months or two days simply greatly affect our investments. And for the end of all the talk about these highways. Croatia cannot return more than 18 billion kunas without the so-called "2015", 2016. We're all just aware of that. Yeah, but I guess we should cut our salaries and cut our pensions in half. All in all, this is a budget that will depend on GDP growth, and if it is not next year, then you've given it to us, but I want to believe that next year it's just going to happen with another fact that this government is probably, and we're all aware of what's most eloquently confirmed by the traffic in Remetinco, the country has taken over in the most difficult circumstances, and I would say 95 after the war on here, and that's why we support the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59857	Thank you. It's amazing, but you've only really caused six replicas. The first is Dragan Montenegrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59858	Comrade Caine, I was sincerely hoping you'd stay with Vukovar when you talked about him because this is the moment we need to talk about Vukovar. We know very well that so far has been very much, the state has been taking loans in billions, but a little and a few million have come to Vukovar, and thousands. All of us are sick and tired of being in Vukovar, fighting over Vukovar, and coming to it once a year. The day before yesterday was the city meeting of the city council. There were not many topics, I know you may not have known, but there were not many topics about bilingualism and the column, but there were those ordinary ones, but it was a report by the city's Komunalac firm where we got the information... Thank you, Mayor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ten million kuna claims unpaid Technostana, and Technostan owes 6 million kuna. There won't be any heat in Vukovar, there won't be. The Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, not only implies a fund for the reconstruction and development of the city of Vukovar, includes advice that the Government, the ministries, is a government body, which suggests to the government and the ministries what should be done. Unfortunately, it hasn't been done in all these years. And I'm just going to mention one thing, which is, let's say, Borovo, which so far hasn't made the Ministry of Economy work on privatization of that company and not that it's hiring 800 workers now and sometimes we know what it meant not only for Vukovar, and in Vukovar we have over 5,000 unemployed and today citizens are not able to pay their bills. I don't want to say other things. We should have in the Korčula pool. But we should have a renewed school in Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59859	Thank you very much. Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59860	That's the life you're talking about, Mr. Representative. But someone obviously imposes artificial divisions on you in Vukovar and via Vukovar then on all of Croatia. I remember the 2009 election campaign and I was really surprised when the Vukovars approached me, the Croats and spoke, so every Vukovar has its Serbs and just the other way around. But what I'm saying is that if someone is treading rights in Vukovar today, they're also being questioned in Istria, as well as in a whole series of other multiethnic environments in Croatia. Just as the time was shot in Vukovar and in some ways it was shot in Istria, when people from Vukovar were expelled, the dignity of people in Istria or anywhere else was trampled out. That's what I'm trying to say to this once-dancing nationalism, I guess we should say enough already, gentlemen of which we all have only damage, and mostly those who live in Vukovar or in those multiethnic environments. And that's why I absolutely expect at least in Istria on a public surface to be in garages, churches, taverns doing whatever he wants to say not to sign a referendum for Cyrillic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59861	Another replica, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59862	Thank you. Here's a colleague of Caine's you've noticed that potential investors are certainly this crawling nationalism and the grandeur of totalitarian symbols can drive people away from investing in such a state. And I think especially those who like to celebrate the totalitarian symbols of communism and you're one of them, should be careful because you'll drive the investors away. You are one of those who constantly promotes the symbols of totalitarianism especially communist, but in any case we must not promote the symbols of any totalitarianism so as not to drive investors away, and I agree with you there. You mentioned the work of a state attorney and indeed the previous government is one part and the government is in jail or under investigation but consider that this state lawyer has already convinced us of this work with considerable latence when it comes to political corruption, it is a delay of 2 to 5 years. So after the term of office of this government, then two to five years after that, if this same state attorney remains, we'll see what the results and consequences will be. And again, I'm going to mention the case of these luxury fielders of the MUP where 32 million kunas are more bought than other luxury terrains that are 32 million kunas cheaper and they're only different from the fact that they've got a tarnished and the other welded sham. I'll dare say a very likely staged public competition. It's just, unfortunately, it's gonna take him years to see why this country is willing to buy at all, and then another 30 million more to pay for one luxury SUV than the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59863	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59864	Well, I don't know when I was how you gave counsel a boost to the symbols of communism. I don't think I ever did. But not once I said in this House that Croatia was the fastest to develop I said that not once. [[Intruder: Please peace.]] Surely I condemn those totalitarian urges of such ideology because many of Communism have suffered in Istria as well. But the fact is that Istra never had Croatia developed faster than by the time it was 1990s. But also, Mr. Representative, let us not play with the future of Croatia. Imagine how the world would react if at some stadium in Germany, say, in Munich, 20, 30 or 50 thousand people would run a sieg heil, imagine that. Or you think that Jasen, Jadovno,... etc. It did not happen in Croatia, or those who found themselves there were only those evil mares. I think we have to talk about it because it certainly hurts Croatia. It can't be that in one of Smoja's Split ori "For the House" and that they rise up in a sign of Roman greeting, it's not that Smojin Split, but it's not that Dalmatia that bled so much on one Sutjesca and Neretva and gave us all a different future.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59865	New replica Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59866	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you were talking to your colleague Cain about giving a disabled kuna more and more and more, but you finally said that, cutting pensions for it yourself. It is not only the reduction of pensions in question but the reduction of the 146 million kuna in the defence ministry's budget, and it concerns one-time rights and the law by 22.5 million kuna or 44%. Permanent rights for 89 million kuna or 12.6%, exhumation and identification, funeral of victims of the Homeland War for 1.4 million kuna or 20.3%, research, editing, maintenance of military cemetery, burial of victims of World War II and postwar periods for 972 thousand kuna or 40.6%. Participants of World War II victims for 77 million kuna or 39.5%. Civil disabled people of the Homeland War by 8.5 million or 22.8% are all reductions coming from the Ministry of Defense. At the Department of Construction, where we've spent the opportunity for volunteers there are reductions of $9.1 million or 96.5%. It has been transferred to the Ministry of Defence and thus will not be sufficient to complete housing facilities that are already under construction, and long ago it has been waiting to be completed. The pension ministry also has 15m kuna cuts, 28.3m kuna and so on. So I think the biggest reduction in what concerns Croatian defenders is the Homeland War and the victims. Parents, widows, children, disabled people, are not the category in which the state and state policy should draw the state out of the crisis. They paid their money in the Homeland War, they paid their money a few times, and this is eight times that...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59867	Thank you very much. We'll hear the answer to the replica of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59868	According to the 2013 budget indicators, a billion $88 million was secured in the Ministry of Defence, 2014. Ninety-nine million kuna and that's done. 96 million kuna reduction. 96, I think. 96. I've always spoken in this assembly, the real disabled always swears more, the others down, to them more. They've got nothing to give up, we've got to solidarity with them. False people with disabilities and here I don't think there's any dispute between me, you and the Croatian public, publicly disabled people reviewing, but a real disabled person simply swears more. But we should also bear in mind the fact that only next year on the basis of the principal and the interest should be paid back 22 billion kuna and that this country is in debt for 40+3 billion, 43 billion kuna, so that it can finance the existing social standard.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59869	A new replica, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59870	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, dear colleague, in your debate, there was one conclusion or suggestion, a desire to make payments at local level equal, i.e. from civil servants and subsistences equal with local tenants because local wages are much higher than on the state level in the tenants. So I would like to say that I think that this coalition is not only thinking but I am also convinced and from all the programmes of this government it is shown that our wish is one another, which is that the real sector that has the average salary, means workers and workers in the real sector in legal persons have a salary somewhere 10-15% less than the average of Croatia. This means if the average of Croatia in September was 5400 kuna they in the real sector have 4700. It is our goal that this real sector be the one to draw, which will have higher salaries than in the public sector. We have a problem, a problem found, which is that public and state-owned companies have a 25% higher salary than the average salary. They raise the average, and the key to the country's economy and development is to make the real sector a driver and make these wages bigger than in the public sector for the sake of security and all that we know more about the state sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59871	A new replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59872	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Cain, I would refer to your two settings. You have concluded that we have and you have listed that we are going to increase the budget from year to year, then to increase the deficits in that budget, then to increase the debt of the credit to the Republic of Croatia, and in addition to all that we are doing so, we are going to say the sale of our national treasure, from Croatia's insurance, the Croatian Post Bank, so to speak. The monetization of Croatian highways and then you saw it all together in that, in fact, the government in about 2-3 years actually made us feel better. But is there time to wait, Mr. Cain? Furthermore, in this situation where my colleague Djurovic said, and we also have the fact that we have 180 agencies in the Republic of Croatia, that expensive cars are being purchased, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry of Interior, I would really not say the state as a drunk rich man because this country is not a rich man, I would rather say as an unreasonable poor. And with all that, you involved football as second, Joe Simunic, etc. So I expect that you will soon protest if Mr. Vakula on the prognosis shows that she has fallen a thick fog over Zagreb, that you will sue Bauhaus who has everything for home as their advertisement says, and even Nikola Šubić Zrinski who sang "for a home to battle" in the most beautiful aria, which is very radical, so in battle and not something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59873	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59874	There's no time, Mr. Representative, I know, but we've been waiting for our brother for 18 years, ever since the end of the war here. I would even dare say it doesn't even matter how this coalition goes in the 2015 elections, but it's important that the opportunities in this country are consolidated, that's the essence and that we come out of this four-year cycle as one well-organised economy and a well-organised state, state-of-the-art financial and legal state. I'm also afraid, and I said the same thing earlier, that if there is no growth in 2014, I don't know how we're all just going to spend ourselves, but in order for opportunities to change, I think we all need to be much, much more responsible and those who, as a sign of Roman greeting, raise their hands in Split or I don't know any other Zagreb stadium.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59875	Last replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59876	Comrade Cain, you said this was the budget for keeping the standard. Do you think the citizens of Croatia want to keep this score? You represent the logic of bad football coaches who don't change anything in the game even when they lose. They keep the score until I don't know 85 minutes. Then they introduce reinforcements that should reverse the game when it's too late. So the government needs to keep this negative score. That's probably what you wanted to say. And when you mentioned the State's Attorney's Office, then it would be advised that a state attorney who reacts with a historical detachment mainly to all affairs would react without delay to the purchase of SUVs. Because when something is so much more expensive then it becomes suspicious and then it can be reasonably suspected of corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59877	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59878	As far as I'm concerned, let these SUVs react, as far as I'm concerned, let them react freely. What's he waiting for? But when we talk about this budget that I said, we're kind of keeping the standard. And this is, among other things, a battle for the standard, to preserve this consumer base of this country. But once again I will say, if there is no growth in next year, then there will be several extremely difficult years, extremely difficult years, and years of denial. Here is a population that Djakic repeatedly spoke of deprived or deprived of certain incomes and standards, but everything else remains more or less the way it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59879	We'll hear more SDSS and Mila Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59880	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. Budget 2014 The theories say the budget is the most important political strategic document and which, as such, determines the direction of society's movement in a fiscal year. This is said by the theory, and practice says that the budget is the given size, a given framework in which income and expenditure can be moved in a certain fiscal year. So, if we have and we have heard today from many colleagues in the introduction of the country's enormous expenditure, if we have a minimum GDP growth of 1.3%, if we have a minus 5% of GDP, if we have large-scale credit defaults that are measured by billions, so if we have a decline in investment and an increase in unemployment today, what kind of framework we have is that we have a different budget than we have now proposed. We don't see him at the club that he could be different, and besides today, I have a feeling that all the budgets in the surrounding countries can be almost the same, identical way to attack because he's almost the same or similar political environment where certain things happen today. We at the SDSS Club support, above all, the introduction of the government order into state finances. We think it's a very big thing that happened last year and this year. The club also supports the fact that the government reflects a certain minimum of social sensitivity. Of course, that social sensitivity then has its own price to reflect in these budgetary positions. But we must also say that the charge of the tax budget has come after us to a certain limit of endurance and the announcement of some new taxes would be a problem. To analyze it further, because it would still require a certain elaborate. With the austerity policy, we believe that further functioning of the market is at stake, and very soon we will have to change the approach of such a strategy. Because saving too long becomes counterproductive. We think that in the global world we need to gradually return to re-industriousism, of course it's not flossula. It's a serious and long-term job. Time has shown that countries that have preserved base production, industrial production has been easier to come out of this economic crisis. We have also already said that we think that there is a certain financial resource in civil savings and that this resource should be activated. It's about huge money, and the data says that only 20% of civil savings are aimed at investment. There's no time to talk about agriculture. It's a complex subject. A lot invested. We need to see how much it's got in the global world, how much we're going to get now and be able to consume from this envelope. We could talk about our successful tourism in a certain way, because if one Budapest has more foreign exchange revenue than the entire Adriatic coast, then the question is the success of our tourism than the shipbuilding, the monetization of highways. These are all serious issues and we cannot consume them with this budget. European funds are high expectations. Four and a half billion is a tempting asset. However, in order for this to happen, we must now have certain assumptions institutionally solved and these are the strategies developed, these are operational programmes by individual ministries, these are projects of local self-government units. And we need to have pre-financed by local self-government units as a state. These are elements without which we four and a half billion today will not withdraw. Not today, but in a month, you can get into this business no matter how much we expect. And some experiences suggest that the countries that have last joined the EU take a year and more to institutionally regulate themselves to be able to withdraw these funds. And now I'm going to do something concrete about budget positions. State office for renovation and housing, position 3305 for us at the moment is most interesting because it is the functioning of the State Office for Housing. He started working in May this year, and he needs to do a big job. In that position, we are looking for a correction of the €52 million budget because the general budgetary limit for the work of the state budget worked on a basis of 8 months, rather than on a basis of 12 months. If we were to get that adjustment, it would primarily be provided, the correction would be ensured for the implementation of the housing insurance plan at PPDS because it is planned, for the sake of the public to know, that another 100 houses for the programme of organised installation, 1100 houses for the programme for the assignment of construction material, 100 houses through the reconstruction programme and 244 families would be provided through the regional programme. It's a huge job. In addition, certain funds should be provided for unauthorized investment in the private property of the returnees because we made that commitment in the closure of Chapter 23. And here we have foreseen a special item of 10 million kuna, a refund of the invested funds to Croatian defenders for the purchase of housing units. Therefore, it is the amount of the 52 million kuna we propose that the Government correct with its amendment, that is to enable us to use these funds. I'll just say briefly if the rapid process of selling state-owned apartments would reduce the costs of managing and managing the current housing units but would also increase the income of the local self-government unit from these funds, which is a very, very important thing for those units today. When we talk about electricity, I remind you that there are still 42 villages here that have no electricity, or 200 families whose houses have been renovated since 2003 and have been waiting for electricity for 10 years. The village of Idarovac in the Municipality of Gračac where one young return family with two children lives in a house without electricity since 2006 and has a cattle farm of 200 heroes who have been maintaining and serving on the aggregate for 10 years. And now that we put that relationship in relation to some means, the thing needs to be done... the program via HEP is only 3.5% of the annual hep. Or when I put those 35 million kunas with which the electrification would end up in those 42 villages and I say on Sunday we'll spend 48 million in the referendum, and this job costs 35 million and we can't finish it then I don't have any further comment on it. In the Ministry of Construction We have 320 positive solutions so far, former housing rights holders outside the PPDS have the right to an apartment. Since the deadline has opened another 1,500 such new requirements have arrived for resolution. So in 2013, we had 10 million kuna for this thing in the budget, and we only bought 20 apartments. We think that in this position there should be 62 million kuna in 2014 and at least ensure that 100 apartments are purchased, which is one third of these solutions that have been positively solved. Unfortunately, in 2014, we have 12 million kuna in that position and we will still be able to buy only 20 apartments. And if we do this at that rate of 20 apartments, we're not going to solve this problem for the next 16 years. Let me just say that the only bright example was in 2008 when we had 350 million to solve this situation where we bought 450 apartments. But we did it because it was a condition for resolving the closure of Chapter 23. And then the state promised, made a promise that the whole problem would be resolved by 2015. So with these funds in the budget, we're not going to solve it for another 16 years. That is why the SDSS Club proposes that, and will submit an amendment, that the 50 million kuna in that position be secured from the position of socially encouraged housing. Because the data says that 54 million kunas were not used in that position last year. And it may be correct then that these funds would not fail, that they would be re-purposed and used for this 2014 to buy another hundred of these apartments. Education in the position of promoting the education of national minorities in 2014 is about textbooks and teaching means for members of national minorities, this budget provides for 2 million and 180 thousand kuna. I have to say here that this will not be enough resources for the things I'm going to talk about now because 2014 highlights the old catalogue for textbooks in the language and letter of the national minorities. There's got to be a new catalog going on for four years. So you have to print textbooks in the language and letter of all national minorities for the next four years. The last catalog for that thing cost 3 million and 300,000 kuna. So there are another million and a few thousand kunas missing to repeat the same thing, in order to allow children to be educated in the language and letter of national minorities in the set so that parents do not then suffer as it has now happened that, unlike the price of printing, they have to look for funds in various other ways. So, we propose to find the means to provide within the position of the Ministry of Education the Government with its amendment another million and 200 thousand kunas in order to ensure the printing of textbooks in the language and letter of national minorities. Here we certainly did not ask the question of the costs of the authors, the financing of the questions of the author's textbooks, and we have not yet opened the question of funding the model of education according to model C. It is a special story, but it would be good if the government recognized this problem and would therefore increase the position of incentives and education of national minorities from 2 and 100 to 3 million and 300 how much this printing cost four years ago. The National Minorities Council, which we are all members of the national minorities, firstly this year has received a significant reduction in its resources. In fact, it advises the downloaded linear 6% for funding all associations and 20% for funding their activities, which we call perhaps unpopular cold drive. But it's all about all those other counseling activities that aren't visible here. Therefore, for the first time now, the National Minority Council has about 38 million kunas, so the associations will have to be prepared for the fact that their projects in a particular section, a particular process, will be unfunded, i.e. to be abolished by certain budgets. The conclusion is in the end. The budget is what it is. That's our reality. I don't know if anyone else could make it right now. We would love it if the next budget would, in its essence, not be a thrifty budget, but if that budget had some other elements. But all in all, if these amendments are accepted as proposed for us, this is an acceptable budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59881	Thank you. We have one replica, Srdjan Gjurkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59882	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, you are instructed by certain means and needs to purchase apartments, I believe that at this point what the government is doing and what has in particular the DUDI task or state administration office for state property management, which is a record of all apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia, opens the possibility that, when we get that records, it will be on websites, we can provide necessary apartments on the subject you were talking about and also to solve other problems within the Republic of Croatia because the very fact that a certain apartment is not in a location where it would be necessary to provide an apartment. If you have a state-owned apartment registered, you can either give it to local self-government or of course you can change that apartment at a given time for a certain other apartment at normal quality value, so that you can ensure that there are more apartments without having to buy. So the key is to be efficient, rational and effective in this segment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59883	Thank you. Now we're gonna take a break by 3:00 and then we're gonna get back to work. Good for everyone!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59884	Here we go with the work. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59885	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have a budget for 2014. We discussed the budget rebalancing yesterday, but the very most important document on the policies and policies of all the resolution ministries is ahead of us. But also when the budgets are proposed and when they come before the Parliament, several elements are always important, and these are especially macroeconomic elements. 4 are the most important, it is economic growth, price stability, full employment and a positive external trade balance. So looking at this budget that's ahead of us if there's going to be growth, it's so conservatively pessimistic. Looking at price stability by watching what happens to VAT, but also when we talk about energy, we will certainly reduce the consumer basket. But when we talk about an increasing number of unemployed from day to day, then the situation does not encourage us to do so, and with the implementation of the budget this year we have seen what was the deficit and surely we are worried about next year, and especially for our exporters, do we know after 1.7 what came when we talk about contracts with CEFTA and when we talk about a positive external trade balance then we are certainly concerned about the next year 2014. What is evident is the increase in expenditure but also the drop in income, and the budget is always a wish list. Looking at the deficit, and it is a gap between wishes and possibilities it is growing, so looking at our budget which is on 426 pages we can say that we are particularly concerned about borrowing, borrowing that was projected in 2014 and continuing for 2015 and projection for 2016. looking at the given variables that we know are set in the budget but still has the creative part of the budget and certainly after yesterday's rebalance and in our discussions we expected the minister to sharpen the pen and start reducing the expenditure side, and we believe in the HDSSB that there are a lot of these points on the expenditure side that can be corrected and certainly bring the budget into balance without significant debt as projected for 2014. But when we look at the projection of financial expenditures, then it increases in 2014 by 15.3 and looking at 11 billion 592 million kuna in 2015. 12.4 and 2016 13.06 billion kunas can then be realized that we are entering a whirlwind that will be difficult to get out of if we don't cut the cost side. But also looking at individual items of an agency financed from the budget, and each year there is an increasing number, and we believe in the HDSSB that it does not take so many agencies but also those that we have to take care of their expenditures that we must also look at all these agencies and through reports at the level of maybe all of the RS agencies of their financial reports. Looking at the budget that is ahead of us and looking at certain items then we can say that when we start from the Croatian Parliament, the budget for the Parliament is reduced but when moves are made and when the spending side wants to be reduced, then we should always start from us and from our salaries and from our costs. But when we look at the government of the Republic of Croatia and increase by 22% in 2014 then we wonder what the government is doing? Is the government leading the Republic of Croatia in the right way, and does it suggest, by its example, that the expenditure side of the budget is not reduced? Looking right at the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Directorate for the Use of Official aircraft to increase exactly that item by 81%, then surely, by looking at that item, I think that this is one bad message related to the Directorate for the Use of Official aircraft because when we see that we need to rationalise the business that each item in the budget needs to be touched then by individual directorates and individual items should be absolutely cut. Yesterday we discussed the rebalancing and the State Assets Agency or the DUDI where the rebalancing funds were reduced but I am glad to increase the funds here but I expect them to be proportionate to the funds they receive, and they increase their funds by more than 200% accordingly and increase their work by 200%. Government of state property, management and management of state property in a different way compared to how they've done it so far and haven't rightly managed state property. The position of the Ministry of Finance is increasing by 29% but there is also a clear entry and service of all those credit arrangements which are large numbers but certainly also large interest that Croatia receives and we always know that interest reflects the situation of reality and a reflection of the risk assessment. Croatia's interest is increasing and assessing what will happen in 2014 then we can only expect that the interest on the credit arrangements that Croatia will receive will grow. But looking at yesterday's rebalancing was being saved on development, and that was the mark of rebalancing. But development must not be spared, in the ministries that have to create policies that have to create an economy that does not need to be saved. But we often hear in the SDP/HDZ Committee the controversy that has made the major deficit and we often hear what SDP=HDZ is, but we also estimate that at the end of the mandate, the deficit of the SDP government will be greater. That's what we're worried about. And I think that SDP and HDZ should not compare, but we should compare who had growth. And since 2008, we've been recording stagnation, I'd say in all macroeconomic elements. Looking at what we are particularly concerned about is that there is no regional development of the Republic of Croatia, and looking at the budget, watching what happens to Slavonia and Baranja with the projections that we had when the 2013 budget was being adopted was that for Slavonia and Baranja from these 5 counties there would be 451 million 968 thousand 736 kuna. But when we got the 2014 budget, then we found ourselves in positions of only 203 million 192 thousand and we certainly were worried about it. The HDSSB will also have a lot of amendments when we talk about capital investments but also about taking down the expenditure side. I personally particularly worry about IPA 3B for Osijek that the position that was... 97 million 119 thousand in projections that now the position is zero. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I expect the answer and Minister Linic to see how we will close our participation in the project... a project for which we received 72m euros which is very important to us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, this position should not have been removed in the budget because it is a multiplier of funds with European resources that are very important for the development of the city of Osijek as well as for the withdrawal of European Union funds. There are a lot of items that can be cut on the expense side, I'll just mention some. Almost no ministry that does not restore the rolling stock position is visible in each section. Therefore, there is no time to rebuild the rolling stock. Also 176 agencies where funds are spent in various ways. But also when we talk about pay positions that are visiblely growing on a number of items at a time when the recession is, it's certainly not good. What we are particularly concerned about is watching the consumer basket of our fellow citizens' holes in the basket next year will be much bigger than it was this year and we are particularly concerned about the public debt which in 2008 with 100 billion kuna in 2013. In early 2014, it will come to EUR 200 billion. This is what it indicates that the reform does not exist, that there is no change in the situation, that there is no fiscal decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia, but there is also a need for regionalisation of the Republic of Croatia. Yesterday I mentioned that anecdote when a man falls from the 50th floor and they ask him on the 20th you're okay, today I'd say on the 10th floor you're good and he says you're still good. That's what reminds me of Croatia, bells ring and we still say we're good. Our fellow citizens but also units of local administration, our fellow citizens are reducing their home budgets, units of local and regional administrations are reducing budgets and rationalising business, that is what was expected in the 2014 budget on the expenditure side of the current and state budget. But when we look at ministries and individual divisions, then it's obvious that the Ministry of Interior is growing by 12%, so I don't know if we're looking for a police state that our ministry is growing by 12% and the Ministry of Defense is down 13%. Looking at the Ministry of Economy and that's what I'm particularly concerned about is reducing the position by 10%, that's where we need to give the wind to our economies, but also creating a more positive climate just to develop, to grow. In that position, I'm sure we shouldn't have saved, saved on development. But if you didn't just say that if we were to criticise the HDSSB, I would also commend the position of the 14% Ministry of Agriculture. I commend, but I'm saying it's still not enough for our farmers' needs. And also on our envelope that we have where we could say no 14 but more than 30% increase the position for agriculture because we often talk about real production, the processing capacity, what our farmers lack, especially in working cultures, in fruit growing, vineyarding, vegetables and what Slavonia and Baranja are good at. So these are positions that certainly multiply the funds and we can then expect it to happen to us much better than it is currently in the economy. We also often talk about the European Union but not only when we talk about membership, but also about the position of the Ministry of Environment Protection is growing 60%. These are our obligations when we talk about waste, when we talk about the environment to protect our space and nature. This is another one of Croatia's commitments just by joining the European Union. Looking at the Ministry of Tourism that we expect to light results and down 13%, we can also say that there is continental tourism in which the Republic of Croatia and the RES should invest more. But looking at today's statements by the prime minister that it is a responsible policy, but we stress irresponsible borrowing precisely because of generations to come, generations that will have to repay loans. And just along with these deficits, we can say that Slavonia and Baranja almost got nothing when we talk about capital investments and even your projections where Slavonia and Baranja are twice as small as predicted by projections. So I wonder what the Prime Minister needed that statement from God to dry my hand if there was no money for Slavonia and Baranja. But it is evident that there is no such money for Slavonia and Baranja in the 2014 budget. There is no clear regional development strategy, there is not what we expect at least to try to level the development of the border areas of the Republic of Croatia with the one more developed. I'm not saying, these strong ones need to develop, but also for Slavonia and Baranja, some resources need to be allocated to make Slavonia and Baranja develop. There is no strategy, especially when we talk about our 2014-20 strategies for the withdrawal of European funds, and we do not see units of local administration in the budget how they will multiple funds and withdraw more funds from the European Union. Therefore, these strategies are still missing, and we know that we also need to make regulations, we know that we need to transfer them to local administration units so that we can prepare projects. Therefore, since all strategies do not probably have the only strategy that the European Commission will ask of us that is a public debt recovery strategy, that is what awaits us in the coming months. Therefore, we have not made any moves with this budget being expected of us, and for this very reason the HDSB Club will have amendments when we talk about capital investments, when we talk about Slavonia and Baranja's needs, but by looking at this budget we can only say that we will be against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59886	Thank you. We'll start with the replicas. Boro Grubisic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59887	Thank you very much. Comrade Bubalo, what you have said very analytically and very overly on behalf of the club is indeed because you are a prominent economist, master of the economy and you fully understand both the macroeconomic and all other aspects of this budget. The fact that Slavonia and Baranja is one total budget failure in all 5 Slavonian counties, and then that IPA programme for Osijek that you talked about is in some way given the savings that have been announced, it would be said to be saved everywhere and also to Slavonia and Baranja, but it is not so. In a previous replica, I said that here is, in contrast to Slavonia-Baranja County, Sisak-Moslavina received 10 times more ongoing assistance than the Slavonian County. What particularly stings me in the eyes as you have noticed your IPA program is in the budget of the Croatian highways a long-awaited and desirable investment in the underpass on the state road 423 in Slavonski Brod, so-called. Osijek Street, where the budget has been reduced and there is obviously a stalemate as there is in many other projects. In this project, which is very, very important for Slavonski Brod and even if they had to tell me smart about winning elections, new elections, if they are regular in 2015, at the end of 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59888	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59889	Thank you very much. Dear Grubisic, we can certainly predict what will happen in the macroeconomic environment, but also with the budget of the Republic of Croatia, it was necessary to start cutting on the spending side in 2014 rather than sticking its head in the sand as if nothing were happening. What also concerns me when we talk about multiplying funds and perhaps we will not withdraw enough European Union funds because the unit of local administration will not have enough resources, I am worried about the IPA 3B component for Osijek. But I spoke yesterday when it came to rebalancing to save on development, and today I stress especially on the development of Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59890	Thank you. Next replica, Damir Tomic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59891	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bubalo, you said you needed to cut the expense side. I listened to you carefully, you didn't really make any suggestions to whom to cut. We're witnesses every time everyone gets cut, you make a suggestion to whom to cut. You have noticed, the increase in the agricultural budget is not a direct injection to Slavonia, the most Slavonia, the wind in the back of the economy you mentioned. Well, this government has given a lot of wind to the economy in these two years. What most or one large part of the economy is doing in a semi-criminal mile in our area, let's ask ourselves why that is. And finally, what is the responsibility of local self-government for everyone? Huge. Let's ask ourselves why our five Slavonic counties are the worst. Well, I guess it's not the government's fault. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59892	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59893	Thank you very much. What is important to emphasize is that Slavonia and Baranja have many projects but are not well valorized. I know well what it means to cut the budget, at least 10 budgets I proposed and watched them execute, but I also had a chance when the budget of the city of Osijek was 600 million to bring it to 404 million last year. I know it is not easy to cut, and in that part I understand Minister Linic, but surely when you look at the analysis on these nearly 500 pages there are a lot of analytical points that can be cut and it is visible, but it has not tried to get into that part, and we often point out in HDSSB that we know how to praise what is good, we know how to question what is bad. In my speech I praised the increase for the Ministry of Agriculture amounting to 14%, you probably heard this, but I still think it was insufficient because there were cuts last two years, especially when we talk about agriculture, incentives to farmers, and if it had been a wiser policy in the last two years then that multiplier would have been significant and certainly would have been multipled and our farmers would have been in a much better position than it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59894	Thank you. Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59895	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you are constantly saying that there is no strategy, and it is not clear to me why we are strengthening the position of the economy through small and medium enterprises, through their ministry, why we are strengthening the HBOR without talking about projects that are strategic both in Croatian waters and in irrigation and in Croatian railways and the strategic provision for the survival and progress of shipbuilding as a strategic industry that naturally drags other entrepreneurs and other industries. So there's an absolute strategy. What about the Tourism Development Strategy, which and with the tax discharge essentially came into contact to strengthen the one where we are competitive to be even more quality. So, there are strategies, they're being read out of these budgets, and when you talk about the Ministry of Economy, you say there's less. Enter a little bit into the analysis of the Ministry of Economy and you will see that it is directed not in the way that it was done before, and that means sharing those who do not need it but bargaining. This is about classical and clear and open project financing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59896	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59897	Thank you very much. In fact, a colleague of mine said in his speech that the economy ministry is cutting the amount by 10%. But what I'm particularly concerned about is the budget that was brought in for 2013 we had a rebalance yesterday, so I stressed to the ministers who are expected to be creators to be cut in all their positions. So they didn't make the budget that was put before them. I expect these ministries to implement the budget in 2014, but it is clear that there are no strategies and we have to, we know which strategy to bring from 2014 to 2020, especially when we talk about regional development, when we talk about attracting European funds to these strategies, and I am afraid that we will pay more in the next year of EU membership and what we have to do, than we will withdraw funds. Therefore, there is no strategy in that part and we expect it to finally be brought, because 2014 is at the door.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59898	Thank you. And Ivan Shuker, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59899	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Bubalo, it is clear from this budget that the Government will not only sell Croatia's postal bank and Croatia's insurance but that a practical decision has been made on sales, monetisation or as we will call the Croatian highways. Because when you look a little better at the budget positions of the Ministry of Transport, then you will see that part of the 60 lip given for Croatian highways is intended for only one part of the year, let's say for the first three, four months. But it is also foreseen that the rest of these funds are redistributed between Croatian roads and Croatian railways. So nothing here would be controversial, I mean controversial to the government, but it's disputed to us who are against it. However, to achieve this, certain laws were to come to this High House. First is the Public Roads Act. If I am not mistaken in 2012 or 2011 it has been changed that certain roads are excluded from the maintenance of Croatian highways and are brought down to local self-government units. But the law defined 60 limes for Croatian highways, 60 limes for Croatian roads. So this should be the redistribution that practically, as proposed in the Croatian highway budget, they get 20 lipes, these get 80, and 20 lipes should be rerouted by some other law, whether the Law on Croatian Railways according to the Croatian Railways. And those three laws were to be found in this High House for discussion before the budget was passed. Because the question is, how can we budget so as not to provide in the budget the means to implement the laws that are in force at the moment? And the Law on Public Roads says that at this point, we must extract 60 limes from a litre of fuel for Croatian highways. So, if that's different, then someone should have proposed the Public Roads Act to discuss it here, to hear who's thinking about privatization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59900	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59901	Thank you very much. I'll be leaving from the end. When we talk about public roads, normal law has not been passed. However, there has been an increase in centralization, decentralisation, not even in that segment because I know well as well as I managed the city of Osijek until a few months ago that we got 90 km of roads. We got the expense side, but not the income. That's what needs to be changed exactly by that law. But when you list all these sales against which HDSSB is against when we talk about both HPB and Croatia insurance and others, that's what income brings. We certainly need to run a serious analysis, and just before I talked about DUDI, about an agency that needs to be managed by property. We need to sell what is not perspective and from which Croatia has no income, and we do not give what is still worth what is best. We're about to do the opposite. If we had done the opposite all these years, it would have been different in Croatia. But when we talk about a deficit that is 17 billion, it can't be compensated for all these sales that are planned next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59902	Thank you. On behalf of HNS Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59903	Hall of Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with Deputy and Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. So on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I say we will support this budget for a number of clear reasons which are essential in nature and not just political. So we've heard a lot about how this budget is set and is almost 90%. But what is key to budget and policy at all is whether this budget opens up a space for development. And that's why the budget defines both politics and government policy through that budget. That is why I will draw from this report and the explanations of the state budget proposal two, three highlights that clearly point to this. Therefore, the costs for subsidies themselves are planned to amount to €6.3 billion. The largest singles relate to subsidies in agriculture and subsidies in the Croatian Railways. And it is important to note that the increase in subsidies in agriculture is financed from the EU funds. So it's not from the budget, it's using EU funds. And to use EU funds, you have to have projects because otherwise you can't get funds. So he's got projects. When we talk about other expenditures, we've concluded that 90% is actually in our budget. Other expenditure, current and capital investments in transport infrastructure and rural development. The implementation of projects co-financed by EU funds is 6 billion kuna. EU budget funding projects expenditure on the acquisition of non-financial assets is growing 787 million kuna compared to 2013. The ministry of entrepreneurship and craft almost doubles its budget. We have already heard about agriculture that it is growing the same, but it is of course about this part that is related to the EU. Also, investment in the islands of 111 million kuna is growing about 15% compared to the previous year, or the current year in which we are. The costs of restructuring are discussed, so it is clear that this started in the Croatian Railways, it is quite clear that it started in certain companies and public enterprises, it is clear that with the restructuring laws, or in the reconstruction in part of the administration, this started and that it will end in the next year. It is no wonder that 330 million kunas are lower costs for employees next year. With regard to health care, it is certainly not fast enough, but it is clear to all of us to do reforms within the framework of health care except for preparation if it is not prepared in any case, it requires both time and negotiations and talks with trade unions and with its partners, and also when these reforms are being carried out, you need to bring this health care into a financial balance so that these reforms can provide no worse than better health services. When we talk about the 2014 Budget, then we read a larger deficit, but that deficit must cover interest as we know it and this 3.6 billion investment in the EU needs to provide us with an average in the next 7 years and the possibility of ten billion kuna withdrawing funds for project implementation. And of course, the best results of this government's withdrawal will be seen, and that is all that development segment that is being prepared and will continue to be prepared to ensure the growth of gross products in the coming year. As we grow in gross products, we show and prove not only with this plan that this government, with all its difficulties, will not speak out of closets, suitcases, and I don't know where the problems come from, but with the difficulties we are living with today with the macro-economic environment that is also surrounded by major economic problems, we can get this country out of the crisis by investing and helping the economy. It's already been discussed about HBOR. All the funds given to HBOR by the Government, i.e. by the adoption of the budget, they enter into public debt. However, these funds are multiplying, these funds are opening up new jobs. This year, HBOR doubled funds directly placed in the economy for production and export. And it's this strategic bank to repeat once again the state investment directly related to the economy. When it comes to pre-departure deals, they will certainly be further talked about, when it comes to 48.49 billion kunas of mutual claims in just 5,300, 5,400 legal entities that are in pre-departure deals, then we are talking about one week of GDP. So these are all the conditions in which without those skeletons from the closet we have to work and we have to create conditions that that part of the economy that has a chance to work, that exports, that produces, that pays regularly to ensure that it goes forward. Let us not forget that and the fact that 22 billion kunas blocked from citizens are also extremely affected by the charge of this budget and the state of the economy and, of course, by the state or the positive or bad of citizens when they look at the work of this government or at the work of this position that is trying and believing successfully, and it will be seen very quickly that it is quite clear, to get the country out of the crisis. The growth of the economy and employment that lies in all the basic EU documents and guidelines is in the core documents and guidelines of the government's work. No ministry with its budgets has prepared a cost that will not bring profit, a benefit for citizens. Everything is prepared to go into development and everything is prepared for citizens to recognize in an adequate way what this government and the ministries are doing. I'm sure it's not simple, but we're never gonna complain about it. What may be causing some confusion is that it's telling the truth, that the problems are what they are, that the duties are what they are, but you also haven't heard that this government and this budget don't give a solution to the problems that mean growth, development, and employment with all kinds of difficulties.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59904	Thank you, too. Moving to replicas, Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59905	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You say that you will support this budget and, in part, for reasons, and you have listed certain items in the budget that are increasing and among them you first mentioned expenditure on non-financial assets, which is increasing by 68%. However, I will remind you that by its 2012 budget, this government has also reduced investment or expenditure on non-financial assets, so it has also reduced in 2013. But more than the reduced investment says the data we read from the implementation of the State budget for 2012 and the reduced expenditure on non-financial assets has not been made 15%. This year will also not be made 20% compared to planned, and I repeat what is less than before. Therefore, when we have experience in those two years, this information about how expenditure on non-financial assets is growing does not seem too convincing. The second thing, you say you'll also support the budget because the funds for the islands are growing 15% and that's good, that's nice to grow 15%. That's 10 million kuna. However, if you had read more carefully the positions that are important, important for the development of the island, then you would have been in another position to talk about the transport of Croatian islands, you would have read that the state agency for public line coastal maritime transport will be reduced by 30 million kuna. Therefore, many of the islands on capital projects will increase the allocations from the state budget by 10 million kuna, at the position of transport connection which is the assumption of island development because without good traffic connections, without good ferry connections, without good catamaran connections there is no life on the islands, you are very well aware of this. In that position, the government proposes a 30m reduction with this budget. So, the total islands when we look at the state budget will get less somewhere around 20 million kunas, and then that support of your budget because the government invests more in the islands, it's little, it's not convincing to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59906	Thank you. Answer, colleague Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59907	Dear colleague, it is one thing to help and invest in infrastructure development, and the other is related to line traffic. So, one thing is for sure, by rationalising the costs of line traffic, we can also save those funds to be rerouted to the part that is related to the development and assistance of the economy. No line will be abolished, therefore your message of reduction, I can tell you that no line will certainly be abolished next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59908	Thank you. Boro Grubisic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59909	Thank you very much. A colleague of Gjurkovic, as my colleague here at the club said, you are as true as yesterday that you were on a rebalancing optimist without cover. Namely, I don't know either you live only in the Parliament or you move around the city and the state of the Republic of Croatia, so you don't see the situation in the state. So, if this government were to show consistency, credibility, starting with the Center of the Bank, 132 Toyotas per 550 thousand kuna, 180 agencies, 8000 smart cell phones, smart phones, right. So in every item of each ministry, you have an increase in information funds. So how long are we gonna get more information? Non stop we have here all items increase in information funds? What he's hiding under is hard to say. So, you're talking about the economy. The economy is yes, said Stjepan Radic a hundred years ago, saving more and more, but there is no savings in this budget, we increase the deficit, we increase the budget, we increase borrowing. Where's the savings here? He says there's more in the savings and more in Radishe, but Radishe's gone when 355,000 are unemployed and is constantly increasing by a thousand a day. Come on, give us a solution, Mr Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59910	Thank you. Answer, colleague Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59911	Dear colleague, what does information mean? For example. If, instead of you in that word and excelle, you all network the ministries and within the ministries and each other's government, you get the possibility of saving rationalization, why? Because it's all public then, because it's all transparent, and that's why there's no way it can be something invisible and that it can be hidden in a certain way. Let me give you an example. When you end up and auctions in the public procurement of Croatia, public procurement in the Republic of Croatia is about 12% of GDP 40 billion kuna, you will be able to save about 30% in this way and that kind of information. And as to whether I live and see what happens? Yeah, I can see very well what's going on. But because I see what's happening and what the government is doing and I know it's doing well and it's going to be better tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59912	Thank you. And Drazen Djurovic replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59913	Thank you. So here you are, a colleague of mine, and I'm going to quote "that we're going to prove and show by GDP growth" then that this country can get out of the crisis by investing and helping the economy. But we don't have GDP growth, we had it in the 2012 budget projection projected growth, so we had a drop. We had the 2013 budget projection for the growth project, so we have a fall. And now we have a new projection for 2014 projected certain growth. Are we going to meet him and it's pretty dubious. If we meet him around zero, we'll be happy, and that won't affect the country's economic improvement in any way anymore. And those who should get the country out of the crisis by investing and helping the economy, say two resolute ministries, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Transport, the small and medium-sized enterprises, these two resolute ministries did not spend spending or invest hundreds of millions of kunas in this year through various programmes in the economy and entrepreneurship. Is this the success of both the result or the total failure and the question of the responsibility of the people who run these two ministries? So they simply did not have programmes and there was no investment in these segments of the economy or the creation of new jobs through certain programmes. So they spent their salaries on vehicles park energy on material assets but did not spend precisely on those programmes concerning the development of this economy, crafts, medium and small entrepreneurship and investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59914	Thank you. My colleague Gjurkovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59915	The respected colleague, therefore, is clear one fact and that we have stopped GDP from falling, he is still at a disadvantage in all macroeconomic circumstances that are not simple and that the growth of the economy and the growth of consumption as, say, the most important elements for GDP growth is in a clear tendency to go in and out of the crisis, and that we are clearly out of the crisis. As regards the Ministry of Economy and the budget of the Ministry of Economy for 2013 you can also clearly read that part of the subsidy that was for shipbuilding this year will not be paid by respecting all those contracts and procedures implemented together with the European Commission and respect for the contract. As for other projects, they are still under way and will be used.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59916	Thank you. We're moving on to clubs. Jadranka Kosor and HGS club. Here you go, Mrs. Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59917	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. Here's even though every time you talk about a budget it seems like a lot is said and that we're actually going around in circles here I'm going to try something new but always going back to the old one. First of all, with the finding that no one knows how painful it is except probably the minister and ministers in the past finances and then, of course, the Prime Minister and all the governments how difficult it is and what kind of business it is when a state budget is being done. It is not easy when it is good and when it is going well and when the economy is rising and when GDP is growing as it is not easy and it is particularly difficult when the situation is as difficult as it is today. When it's good and when GDP is growing and when there's money, then of course everyone's asking for more. Relations in the government are always such that people who are not allowed to be angry. Remember once upon a time there was a minister of finance behind this speaker when he said I had but I don't give anyone who doesn't get the talk first of all about ministers and ministries as much as planned is very unsatisfactory. So it really is to be the finance minister the most ungrateful position in every government. And we always come to these discussions but always these facts are looked at differently, whether they are seen from the bench of the opposition or seen from the bench of the ruling ones. We come to what is important and what is important to talk about and perhaps one day we will all agree together how to change some things, which is the mission of the Croatian state budget. When you sum up everything that the state has to provide, these are primarily salaries, pensions, and we know what the ratio of power is when it comes to pensions, so the same percentage must be collected and one almost the same percentage must be provided in the state budget. When you add up salaries, social benefits mean all that child benefits, maternity benefits all by which the state can thus be recognised as a social state and of course health care then you always come to the same fact and it is especially stressed in those who are in power, means that most of the state budget is given and that there is nothing special within it. So even today we come to this finding in conditions where the situation is not good, when we witnessed yesterday the budget rebalancing second in this year and the perspective seen through the 2014 budget but also the projections for next year is not bright and that is the fact. What I am particularly concerned about when this budget is being adopted is a statement in an explanation that if you allow me to read. Therefore, the European Commission has already announced the launch of the excessive deficit procedure during November and December and will adopt in January 2014 the fiscal adjustment programme required by the Council of the European Union. If needed, the government says, the government will also offer additional measures to reduce the budget deficit, which in this case will jeopardise the macro-economic projections presented. What does that really mean? That the budget that we are discussing today may or probably not be a budget that will actually ensure the stability of state finances in the coming year. So, all of this is variable and it's possible that a new cutting is possible, new restrictions are possible. Which is understandable, of course, because that is what we have defined when we have determined that Croatia will become a member of the European Union. Only then, of course, is the question of how and whether we will ensure all that and whether we will be able to ensure everything that means the functioning of the state in the full sense of the word. So, on the other hand, what this quote means is these two, three sentences that I read from the budget's reasoning are in every way messages to investors, are in every way messages to those who want to come to Croatia. These doubts about it, about a possible new tax, so real estate tax yes or no. So yesterday, the finance minister says that, we're going to have to go to that, and today the prime minister says again, we didn't agree with the partners. I really propose one of the best practices we've had in the past and these are coalition meetings in the government that are being agreed on by strategic decisions. One of the strategic decisions is a decision on taxes, new, old, abolishing, introducing new ones. This must be arranged within the four family walls of each coalition. Because of course this not only confuses many, it discourages many. And the budget and announcements of new or giving up old taxes must be a firm, precise and clear decision. It's hard to believe a budget where not everything called income and everything called expenditure has been defined to the end. It is clear, among other things, that a new 734 million kuna will be allocated to employees in the following year. And if you remember yesterday's debate and, of course, the very correct recognition of the Minister of Finance, here's my replica about paying, because yesterday we had to decide, or most of us will decide on a new billion kunas for employees, or salaries, so it wasn't planned well. Of course, then we rightly wonder if the budget for next year is all that is necessary to pay for the state to function well planned. So I'm going to hope for a while and I expect in the next year actually a very fast budget rebalance of these words, if it's the opposite, I'll be unusually glad. Of course I do, and some colleagues have previously supported a decision on the schedule and fuel prices, so focused on the railways, which I think is good and subsidies to the railways is good. As far as financing from the European Union is concerned, it should be much, much clearer and much, much more visible. As for VAT, VAT on tourism, so I rely on my words that I said earlier about changing attitudes and changing decisions. VAT on tourism down and VAT on tourism up. It is absolutely certain that one of the reasons why we had to make decisions about budget rebalancing is also about planning to reduce VAT to tourism. And in the end there have been many times already today but not just today, in many discussions before, there will certainly be both tomorrow and after that on health reform. It would be great if after actually the last consensus, the last political consensus, which was to enter the European Union if we could reach a consensus on health reform. It is impossible to reform the health of ladies and gentlemen because in this way I am not talking about this moment today, I am talking about every moment in Croatia. We have had many reforms that health reform is relying on 2, 3 billion or more on the state budget we in this sense have to change something radically as we have to change something in the pension system. Because when we get to the point where we're equalized by the number of employees and the number of pensioners and we're one step ahead of that, then the system won't be able to function anymore. So it would be good for the government to make as much effort as possible to try to sit down and try to see what kind of health reform we really want and what we can do. Because what is happening today really points to potential huge and inconceivable problems in the future. And finally, quite concrete remarks, that is, more questions. So, in this difficult situation, when our deficit next year is growing to more than 17 billion I find in this budget, let's say an increase in car purchase items, in the ministry, for example. social policies, but I also find a reduction in maternity benefits and child benefits here. If it's because of the fact that, unfortunately, fewer children are born and we have less to isolate, then I understand that, but I'm asking for an explanation. Equally, car purchase funds are being increased at the Ministry of Labour. It's one of those by-products. I'm glad they're increasing funding in the Gender Equality Office, but they're increasing with an index of 307,3% means a million and 979 to over 6 million, so I'm also interested in what's happening. And there's growing incredible costs for the management directorate of the official aircraft, meaning from 6.5 million to nearly 12 million. The index is 181,3 so I'm looking for an explanation here. However, what I point to, Mr. Minister, will be the only amendment I will write on behalf of the club regarding the Commissioner for Information. So we are a decision, the Croatian Parliament established an institution of information commissioners, an important institution, an important institute in the fight against corruption, but completely inadequate means. And my amendment to go in order to double-up funds because without it, without enough inspectors, means those who will oversee that office won't be able to function and will definitely be a dead letter on paper. It's a commitment that we took among other things through Chapter 23 and that office can't be just a ficus and it can't be just a decoration of democracy or a decoration of the so-called. the fight against corruption. So here's the only amendment I'm going to submit will be on the trail of this debate, and from the position I mentioned I'm going to suggest that it be reduced to you, means an increase for the Commissioner of Information for some million and 300 thousand kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59918	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59919	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Kosor, I expected you to join the Slavonic amendments since you are of Slavonia and given the situation in Pakrac, Lipik and the surroundings that you will have a lot of amendments for this subregion let me say or part of Požega-Slavon County. But what I particularly wanted to point out in your speech is the health care reform you were talking about, which is actually a chronic patient of this country. For 20 years, she's not gonna say it on her extremity, but like she's been suffering from sushi, she's acting like she's acting, coughing, patching up, giving him a little medication, a little government infusion like she was two or three months ago for medications, and that's how healthcare is treated, but there's no real and real health reform, and it can't be if they've hired 6500 unhealthy health care workers lately. The outsourcing of which Minister Ostojić speaks, he likes to speak very much English, so those activities in health care that are not related to exclusively medical activity are thought to be isolated, and then we will pay privates even more expensive laundry, food, cuisine, etc., so that someone will probably earn money. You well noticed that the property tax that was being spoken about yesterday... was a categorical claim that there would be taxes, today categorically not. Well, as far as these will-nots are concerned, we're not just playing with that tax. I suggest you think about the chimney tax, so the chimney tax, so today maybe someone will accept it, and soon in the government will say no, it's no good, it's not a good chimney tax like it was in England. But most importantly, what you said, which is the European Commission's opinion that the budget deficit should be conscious within 3%. This is now the planned deficit of 5%. Will Europe tell us it can't do that? So what do we do? Where's the IMF on the doorstep?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59920	Thank you. We have a colleague Kosor's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I'm very sorry if I failed your expectations because you said you were expecting something from me. I'm very sorry and deeply sorry, I won't do it anymore. And as for the amendments, since I have been able to accept myself as a member of the government and as Prime Minister to accept or reject the amendments, I try to act like this now that I am an opposition representative, so I propose only those amendments that I really think the Government can hardly refuse because the situation is difficult, extremely difficult. And, yes, an explanation. I propose that everyone read a good explanation on page 5 means a budget where it clearly states that a European Commission's reaction is expected and based on that reaction we will obviously have to further correct the budget and there is a big question of what position we will find ourselves in then. So I'm saying this very seriously because, as I'm sure, like everyone in this Chamber, I care about going through it next year, about some kind of growth and finally getting on our feet as 28 members of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59922	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59923	Thank you. So here's what you said in the initial part of your exposure, so I'm going to quote, how nobody knows how hard it is when you're doing a budget that wasn't in that role and that's probably true. But the fact is that no one else knows how to do another job is, neither of us knows what it's like to clean up in one hospital in the afternoon shift, and so to receive 2 and a half thousand kunas and then claim that these people are a health care problem and that they will get rid of health care if these women are fired and transferred to some private companies. Each of us is paid for this job that he does, everyone does it voluntarily, and there's no regrets for anyone like us, nor for those who put themselves in the budget. When it comes to health reform, I will say my opinion very briefly. I told him before that health reform can't start with the tail, but should start from the beginning, and the start is a health insurance system. And the end of this system is a network of health institutions and start on a network of health institutions and out of the number of employees it is the final phase of that entire system and not the rest of the health insurance system where rights are created and relations defined in that system are defined. That's a 100% advance sentence of failure. And the idea of this reform is actually to start from the end of that entire system. And a third thing. When it comes to employees, unemployed, retired, and so forth. I think we have already agreed that the fundamental question of this society is actually the question of the number of people who work, so the number of employees, regardless of the form in which they were employed, whether we have found ways to bring back 300,000 pensioners who can still work the new 200000 employees or those several hundred thousand unemployed, but the number of employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59924	Thank you. Answer, colleague Kosor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59925	Thank you very much. My colleague Djurovic, I didn't say I felt sorry for anyone. So I didn't regret it the way no one ever felt sorry for me in that position. I just said that I understand both the prime minister and the finance minister as the most exposed person at the moment, because finance ministers are always in such a position that no one is ever satisfied with them either in their own party or in their own government. That's a fact for you. So that's what was wrong, he needed more, he needed better, he needed different. That's a fact. But if I wanted someone, of course, that's the price of the position you're in, you're in charge of the state, and then of course you're trying to make me believe you're doing the best you can. Some have success, some fail. But as far as health care is concerned, I'm deeply convinced that this, you know, we're actually spinning around about health care all the time in the circle. We would really have to try to agree what it is and there are needed large cuts, unpopular and unpopular decisions and unpopular measures. But it won't be possible in the long run. That's my opinion, of course, of course I'm entitled to.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59926	Thank you. And the replica, Ivan Mandic. Hansel Mandic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59927	Thank you very much. Well, I know my name's Hansel. Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Kosor. I listened very carefully to your debate and I can tell you that I liked how much responsibility and seriousness you have access to this very important document, which is the 2014 budget. What I would say about your discussion is that the budget of a complex document is, to the most extent, very specific, that it is a visible document and that it has a large number of those in the Republic of Croatia who have ambition to take some of that budget. You mentioned here a health care which is one of those items that are visible expenditure documents. What I would say is that the Republic of Croatia is expecting in 2014 a certainly significant reform of the health system in the Republic of Croatia. This does not mean that health care in the Republic of Croatia is not good, it is not good, it is not good, but obviously a system that we have that is not good and that the Ministry of Health has opened an international competition on this particular issue and according to the information that I have that the competition has received from a French company that has had experience with the organisation and reform of the health system. I think that this time we will have a very important point, which is very visible in budget expenditures, and in terms of reflexes on society as a whole, in terms of health services, we will certainly have certain consequences in the long term, both positive, so negative. But I'm saying, I'd say that your debate was first of all very responsible because you were in a position to face yourself, to satisfy what cannot be satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59928	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Comrade Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59929	Thank you very much, dear fellow Mandic. Right, I think the debate, if no other debate, then the debate on the state budget should be extremely serious, devoid of any kind of demagogy. Because I don't think political points can be collected in the budget debate. Or if he gets it together, he's quick and melts because that's the way it is. As for health care, I think we still have when we compare ourselves with many other countries very, very good health care, good services, we have great doctors, we have incredibly capable staff, nurses and everything else. It's really on one envious level. I think it's rare that the country can follow in that. But on the other hand, we have an incredible imbalance. When you look at these troubles at the hospital in the river that are really scary and the way these people work out there, causing admiration, but it can't stop. So it is evident that, for example, in Rijeka, a whole new hospital should be built and the whole system raised is from where of course. And that's what I'm talking about, and unlike that, in Zagreb, we who live in Zagreb can, of course, have much, much better services and we are just as secure as those who live and I could list some other cities. But we really need to figure out what to do, what to do. When you look at all those averages, for example, unsolicited searches, so the search results, so people go on search, look for expensive tests, and then they don't come up with the results. All of this should be put here for one table and try, but around that we have to have a consensus. And one of those health reform issues should go to a referendum one day to get citizens to decide on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59930	Thank you. And the last replica of Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59931	Thank you very much. Namely, my colleague Kosor is not visible in the savings budget, she's nowhere to be found. But when we look at all the items in the budget and all the ministries, then we see the renewal of the rolling stock in all the ministries. But the message is clearly sent by the prime minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which raises the government's budget by 22%. But you've seen it well, and that's what I've touched in the debate, the Directorate for the Use of Official aircraft increases its amount by 81%, and that's not the end, in 2015 it's still planned to increase by 16%. Well, probably the Prime Minister's been thinking about being in the air all year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59932	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Comrade Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59933	In order to increase the Directorate for the Management of the Official Plane, it is always harsh because it is known who can use it. It's a very narrow circle of persons, so I believe the minister will give us an explanation of why it is. Of course, on the other hand, we see an increase in the item for car purchase, but it is also important to say and therefore it is important that the government explain it well because it is important that both police and all other services drive in safe cars, but it is necessary to provide good information to the public first. And when it comes to the budget, of course, then every item to detail carefully explain, if you need a hundred times. However, all that is not necessary, all that does not have to be done right now, I advocate that it should be given up in this budget as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59934	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the national minority club Denesh Shaw. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59935	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say in the context of the proposal for the 2014 RH budget: in the context of the budget, among others, I quote: "The proposed amounts of resources provided in the state budget for the needs of national minorities are based on an analysis of the programmes of associations and institutions of national minorities which continuously demonstrate positive development and positive effects." I agree with this finding absolutely. "And all about the integration of national minorities into Croatian society," which is probably the most important thing in all of this. The 93.9% index shows a decrease of cca 6% in 2014 compared to 2013 which is absolutely and acceptable for us given the situation that is present for the budget in total. The National Minority Council shall, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, allocate resources on the basis of established criteria based on presented programmes. The National Minorities Council provides support for information, publishing, education, cultural amateurism, cultural manifestations, as well as the achievement of assumptions for achieving cultural autonomy, which is also very important. The Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also provided the necessary resources in 2014 so that it can successfully continue its activities in the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the realisation of commitments made under international contracts. Allow me also a few words about the position of minorities from the aspect of their existential problems, especially the minority I represent in this House. In fact, the vast majority of minority members I represent live in areas of special state concern in rural areas where the population mostly lives on agriculture. It is well known that the consequences of investments in agriculture mean an imminent reduction in jobs. The exit is to exist in these areas of employment in service activities and various types of tourism. However, it is unthinkable to achieve development and employment in the mentioned activities without built quality infrastructure and social standard facilities. I must stress that a lot has been done, a lot has been invested in these areas in the last few years, but I would say not enough. If it does not continue to invest in the resolution of the consequences of the war, some village will completely disappear, simply extinct. I'll give you just a few examples of projects of objects that would be necessary to implement. Regarding these projects and facilities, I personally presented applications to certain ministries, and once and directly to the budget. Unfortunately, it hasn't found a place in the budget yet, but I hope there will be some understanding. All because of the creation of better and more acceptable conditions for normal life in those environments where the largest number of members of that minority live. On the economic development plan, especially continental tourism, for which all conditions and resources exist, I must mention Kopački rit and Baranja wine roads. I don't know which one of you has been in the village of Kopacheva, the Kopački ass is one thing and that small fishing village is something else. If you haven't stopped by, I think it's going to be a pretty rough picture of looks and infrastructure and all that other village. Baranja is bounded by the Danube and Drava rivers, the only settlement, a village on the rivers, more specifically on the Danube in Baranja is Batina. The Danube River in Batinja for nearly three to three-and-a-half years has led to works on the construction of a port for passenger ships in the Danube. If the port ends in 2014 as questionable as possible, we fear that tourists in one still quite devasted environment where there is virtually no catering facility for the reception and accommodation of tourists. Unfortunately, it's a fact, but we're also hoping for a better one. Furthermore, I must mention the village of Lug where the largest number of members of the Hungarian minority, a village that has all the conditions for the development of religious tourism, without an object of home culture and any conditions for the reception and accommodation of tourist guests. I can't help but mention Laslovo, which is practically Vukovar in the small, by destruction and by the victims and where certain objects of social standard as well as the sacral object has not been completed. It's done a lot, but I'm stressing still not enough. I understand the difficulties that follow us as well as the current difficulties, but in this draft budget there are certain items that confirm that the funds still have. I would now like to apologize in advance, here I will mention a few items, because I am doing it in good faith, because I have studied the budget and I am glad that on the Adriatic coast from Dubrovnik to Umag is working, building and unemployed from Baranja 5 months to 9 a good part of them there earns their bread, so don't get me wrong, but I still have to say here certain figures that stand in the budget to make a little bit of a turn towards the East of Croatia, or the far east called Baranja. Let's say the Dubrovnik Port Authority with 12 million is secured by 15, probably dues, loans, etc., I don't mind. The Port Authority from the 20th is going to 35th, and it's also certainly invested in the port that I don't mind. The port administration of Rijeka from 53 to 105, and there are obligations created, a ferry port in Zadar 223 million but there are also 5th and 6th in all these items, so there are obviously certain means, I welcome, I don't mind. And when we look at objects of social standard there are also certain environments where they are participated in the construction of these objects, I might list there, Sisak, Split, Varazdin, Bjelovar, etc., etc. Obviously, there are certain means, but I don't mind any of them, but I don't mind a little bit of pain or trouble, I'm saying that in the perspective of the East of Croatia, I'm going to cover it with the following data. I watched these indicators of synthetic indicators in development where I was surprised when I noticed that the town of Osijek in the East is considered the most developed centre in front of it by its development has 93 local self-government, which municipalities, which cities do not say that from that area and the counties and other Slavonian counties above the average of the Republic practically according to this statement there is no local self-government. So these are all arguments that speak in this sense and I ask all of you from Dubrovnik to Umag if it is to believe these data to show a certain understanding in perspective, indeed according to that eastern part, and that these demands try to be resolved slowly so that they can join and that these scissors are not so large between developed and less developed. And in the end, that's what I'm gonna end up with. Here in this high house there have been several discussions about the position of Croats outside the borders, but never about the position of Croats in my country of origin, and in Hungary, I know what their position, what situation there is, is more or less resolved and I think they have a certain standard of their own. I do not ask the Hungarians in Croatia to get all this because there are a number of other moments and difficulties. However, it may also be one of the arguments that little and that is taken into account because my home country, Hungary, is richer according to certain indicators, the thread is more economically developed than the Republic of Croatia, and I would point out in the end with a single request that the East, or the Far East, is called Baranja and something that Ilock may be more eastly considering our demands and show some understanding. And thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59936	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59937	Comrade Shoi, we are friends as parliamentary representatives and I understand and respect you as a parliamentary representative and representative of the national minority from the unit from which you are elected. I also lived in Bosnia so I know the Bosniak national, I know what Italy is, so I am very much saying to people of all national minorities very much to say friendly and close. But the crisis, the recession affects the citizens individually. So regardless of the nationality of the national minority, any other minority, whether on faith, sexual or any other commitment, citizens are individually affected. For institutions, therefore, and some national fewer budget cuts are foreseen here. Here you have set an example of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and believe me on the board, Mr Shuker is president knows that for this 2013 for the cultural artistic society and culture of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for their societies in the Republic of Croatia a million kuna has been allocated this year. In a year, it's zero kuna, this year, and last year it's one million kuna. So the debate is great that Baranja together with all Slavonia and part of Srijem, our Croatian parts of Srijem in the same position are therefore equally affected in Slavonia and individually and Hungary and the Slovaks and Czechs and all others as well as the majority of Croatian people, so individually every citizen of Slavonia and Baranja. So that's what I'm talking about. And here this government has found certain ways in the budget to reduce the institutions of Hungarian and other national minorities, so I don't tell the citizens, citizens live badly regardless of their national or any other belongings.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59938	Thank you. Time. We have a colleague Shaw's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59939	I don't think we understand each other until the end. I did not talk about the budget for Croats outside the Croatian border to stand out much or less, etc. I don't mind. I just wanted to highlight the situation in which the Croats are located in my home country and I am glad that it is and I don't think there is a special need for the Republic of Croatia to especially some major funds allocated to the Croats in Hungary. That's what I was gonna say. Rather, to point out that in certain investments and investments, etc. is not burned to eventually take that fact into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59940	Thank you, too. On behalf of the promoter, five minutes, Minister Slavko Linic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59941	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here's after a brief review of all your discussions. briefly how many reserves we have in the revenue side of the budget. All the things we've given to the economy, so I'll list for a while. 2.5 billion were the amount of reduced contributions it was given to support the economy, after which we gave also the ease of not paying the profit tax for reinvested profits. In this year, about 900 million kunas, 2,000 entities reported 6 billion kuna taxes that they reinvested. You can expect more in this year. Thirdly, we forget that since this year we have started and given the opportunity to increase VAT entry to 230 thousand kuna, otherwise there were 80, used by 27 thousand VAT entities who returned to account without VAT and this is a huge amount of budget deficit. A 1 billion VAT reduction in tourism and also a reduction in parafiscal burdens. Only in the tax section did we give the economy 4.5 billion. But that's not the only place we've been dealing with business problems. We've solved the liquidity of 3 billion 7.5 thousand entrepreneurs in the reprogramme. Also a pre-fashion settlement of 5,400 users 3 billion by the state alone 21 billion resolved total unresolved financial relations. Also, a billion 700 million from those 3,300 healthcare paid were paid to the economy. And I'm not talking about the fact that I'm entering the EU is a 1.7-year-old effect based on non-payment of customs, which is once again a relief and economy that is somewhere over one billion at an annual level, so let's say 50% of the citizens, 50% of the economy. And not to mention the effect... which is the new methodology for the calculation of VAT on construction. They're all incentives for the economy. And if this economy, and it's called the private sector, still has no opportunity to increase exports and start investment and then it's just a question and what else should it give? Is it essential that this government has a programme for the economy? Yes, gentlemen, five billion less revenue. And that's what everyone thinks we're out of line, it's a battle for competitiveness, but then it's also an assessment of this government's economy in a catastrophic state. And why is that? Because there were no real moves in 2008 when the crisis began, because the economy invested in the real estate business and not in the production and service sector. Nevertheless, this government spends five billion of its income on recovery, systematically and many methods. But then there is the answer to why it is reducing in this year's position at the Ministry of Transport because subsidies are being reduced at the Ministry of Economy as subsidies are being reduced because shipbuilding has been resolved and there is no more shipbuilding subsidies. And there will be no more subsidies either for textiles or wood because these are the measures of the economy that are given through the tax and liquidity policy rather than incentives that are otherwise not acceptable to the European Union. So much for the work on the revenue side. On the expenditure side, it is very clear that this government is carrying out savings on salaries, subsidies, material expenditures. But a very clear message, no restrictions on retirement, no restrictions on social and health care. That's where they need reform, but that's what I'm going to do in the second part.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59942	Thank you. We have two replicas. Ivan Drmic was the first to answer, please welcome a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59943	Dear Mr. Minister, I will take this opportunity to say a few words about the revenue side of the budget. You cannot argue that as Minister of Finance, do not give much of what you have to say to say that this budget voted here in the Assembly will, in some ways, be sustainable in the following year. We are also repairing some of the mistakes that have been made in your thinking or our thinking as to what and how this year will happen in the Republic of Croatia. I'd like to show one flaw in this and those past budgets on the revenue side, that's income from my own property. The fact is that the Republic of Croatia can say a relatively rich country with certain assets, these are various buildings, land, there are also various companies that are not privatised to the end. So when I see that revenue side of the budget, I see that it's a negligible kind of raising money for the benefit of the state. The taxes collected from their own assets are so low that they are negligible compared to all other revenues. I'd like to ask you a question if you're planning on doing something in that field. I can also give an example in Đakov where I come from to have a building of former, legal building of former PIC, which has been owned by the state of Croatia since 2001, which has belonged to the state in recovery and all these 12 years since that building has only cost, the building is destroyed year after year. And it's just that instead of carrying a certain income or at least the state is using it so that there's no profit on it we still have a minimum of 300 to 500 thousand kuna per year to collect other taxes and other incomes to settle the dubiosis and losses produced by that building that lies, and every year more and more declines in the city of Djakov.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59944	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59945	I agree with MP Drmic about the proceeds from the property. Yes, the proceeds from the property are very small. What we need to examine first of all is the concession and provision of many huge numbers of activities in the Republic of Croatia, from the use of water, mines, stone, forest, not to speak maritime goods and aquatic goods. These are all concessions and concessions that were concluded at the time of conversion and privatisation, and they were completely inadequate in that part. It's something that must completely change. As for the management of the property, yes, with the strategy here in the Assembly adopted completely different approaches to governance. All properties that are not in a function that do not need or leave them to units of local self-government or to sell. There's no need to do any damage. There's no need. And the same when we talk about property and the stock. What should not be sold and left to manage those who can contribute more to investment and introduction. In 2014 they are special programmes and you will testify to how much change there will be in this section. Only the Ministry of Finance is particularly guided by the concession account and the level of concessions is the recalculation in that part because we believe we have entered the European market and we want simply to have competitive relations in that part. When you talk about real estate, it is evident that there will be more important changes in the part of the state's assets, and what about the property of a private person standing empty, and individual mayors of the municipality complain that they do not even pay a municipal fee because they are freed under the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59946	Thank you. Second replica Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59947	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We often also praise what you do on the income side. And you've done a lot of things that you've been running away from for years. But on the spending side, I expected you to have more support for the prime minister and to sharpen the pen and cut it, there are many items in the budget on the expenditure side that can be cut and better done this year than to wait for the European Commission or some more difficult years. But what we are not satisfied with is the payment deadline of 60 days, it is not carried out in the work when we talk about the resolution ministries of Croatian public systems and to certain trade chains and privates. But we also feel on the ground that the pre-curricular settlements that you often point out as a good thing to withdraw in pre-curricular settlements are unhealthy to withdraw a healthy part of the economy. But when you speak and in the write-offs you had, I would understand that you entered capital with those revenues that were state revenues, but that didn't happen, there were write-offs. And once again, I would remind you of a long-term bankruptcy which is the bankruptcy of a city bank that needs to end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59948	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59949	Very briefly, pretenses, I repeat again, in pretense procedures succeed if the creditors agree. And these are banks and small suppliers and large suppliers and state and government. It's the only time they make it. And it's a very clear message to all those who complain about losing. No one has been prevented from applying for bankruptcy. Whoever thinks they're going to get into bankruptcy no longer enters the pre-determined and before the pre-fashion proceedings are initiated, let the bankruptcy begin. Basically, if people with disabilities work, they'll have problems because they won't collect their claims. The results are predicate when the highest write-offs are charged 70%. Banks come in three percent after ten years. We don't have third procedures to collect claims, and so let's try to understand, there's no problem with pre-trials, I told you in this year's 5400 requests, but 4400 has already been solved. Done in one year, the same year they were born. Compare that with the bankruptcy that's been going on for 10 years. If we'd run 4400 cases in the next 10 years, it wouldn't have been solved. These are important differences in such procedures, but there must be a will. If there's no will, there's no result. As far as the City Bank of Osijek is concerned, it will be completed because we have launched criminal prosecutions against the bankruptcy manager who abuses his position, but also against the judge who makes it possible. That's what we find unacceptable, it's spending money. 400 million kuna spent on bankruptcy instead of for the believers and no one can explain that it is covered by law. They're inadmissible stores.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59950	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Josip Boric, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59951	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Honorable Ministers. So here's what I'm saying is why we're going to spend 127 billion kuna in 2014, why the deficit budget, with the growth of expenditure and income, with the growth of the total public debt. Since the coalition came to power, everyone has lost an extra share of income, both companies and citizens. They are also winning according to this budget of administration and bureaucracy. The government in financial terms, not to say accountingly, did some of the work, but despite some measures, they scheduled private investments. That's why there's no new jobs. The long-standing crisis still does not see an end, and the budget gap is getting bigger. Therefore, it is necessary to find the culprit for her. For the government, this is the first place HDZ, in the second private sector that simply refuses to invest and hire workers, although the state has restructured and dropped billions of kunas of aid according to government statements. Let's take a closer look at that restructuring. The VAT was raised from 1.3.2012 from 23% to 25%, that didn't help. The zero VAT rate was abolished, and that didn't help either. Taxing dividends didn't help either. There were excises, but that didn't help either. Currently, Croatia is another country in the European Union at the level of the overall VAT rate and the third or fourth at the level of the VAT rate. All the energy prices are rising, gasoline, gas, electricity. It should not be forgotten that when energy prices rise, grow and cost of production and consequently and prices of all related products, from transport to food. The interactions on certain products have been reduced, after some time they have been re-enlarged. Health contributions from 15% to 13% have also been reduced, but let us not forget that the overall VAT rate has been raised. It has grown, and the zeroth rate has been abolished. If we look at the structure of tax revenues, we can see how the government has raised exactly those taxes that make up the main budget revenue. Health benefits are lower, partly because the rate is reduced, partly because the number of employees is 40,000 lower than in the same period in 2011, but all of this is, in my opinion, eye rubdown because reducing the contribution to HZZO without concrete restructuring of HZZO means that the deficit was planned to be compensated from taxes such as VAT and excise duties. That's what the minister always tells us. This means, in particular, if you have a monthly net salary of 5500 kuna per year for health care, you pay about € 1920 less due to the reduction of health contributions, but you will pay around €2500 more through other taxes for the recovery of debts in the public health system. So health restructuring actually doesn't really exist, just covering losses of 2.5 billion from the private and good part of the state sector. Let's not forget that the state is the biggest employer. The total tax burden is not reduced but has been raised. The current government says it restructures public enterprises, healthcare, that it has resolved the issue of shipbuilding. The restructuring was paid by employees and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In other words, a person with an average monthly net salary of 5500 kuna works for one month to cover the new health, air transport, HZ, HEP, shipbuilding and not to count further. The losses of numerous state monopolies continue to be financed in various ways by budget money without any improvement in the quality of their service. The state thus successfully maintained the populist status quo, and costs again fall on the private sector and citizens. To make things worse, the government has found that the economic situation is getting worse. the state budget situation caused by the reduction of certain taxes such as the VAT rate, and re-corrected it to 13%. The austerity measures consisting of raising taxes and trying to suspend the growth of the budget are being transferred to continue the growth of the budget with additional tax hikes. The total budget will increase by 7 billion by the end of 2014. In 2011, the revenues amounted to i.e. The expenditure was 120 billion, 2014. 127, arrivals 2011. 107, 2014 revenue projected 113. The government is also surprised and announces or withdraws real estate tax again. Wonder why it's so invested in real estate. He says you encouraged consumption. However, she obviously forgot about the existence of a state agency called the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation APN, which has only 324 million kuna in its position for 2014 as well. Of which to encourage housing of 240 million kuna. I remember the time here in the Parliament when many parliamentary representatives, the parties, competed in who would praise the measures that went into the encouraged housing. That's what it was. Unfortunately, we're listening the other way today. You did the wrong thing, you encouraged consumption. The social state still considers that all the income you earn primarily by your income only then yours. Therefore, the reduction in the tax rate from 25 to 10, the statements of the responsible were presented as state aid to workers and employers, not by reducing the country's appetite for our money. Everything we earn belongs primarily to Motherland, all our efforts we offer to her, and only with her mercy can we keep part of it to ourselves. And that's how you spend it, and that's what the state takes care of. The government is interested in where economic growth and investment are. It is indeed indicative that the investment opportunities provided in Croatia rarely want to take advantage of either domestic or foreign investors. There is no economic growth in countries without adequate respect for private ownership and effective judiciary. In countries where tax relief is considered a donation of Benevolent Rulers. There is no investment in countries whose authority claims that investors who succeed in making profits should be raised taxes, where tax rates and investment risks change every few months and some future taxes are already announced and then again says they will be withdrawn. All these are not measures to save or help entrepreneurship or citizens. The current government came to power in a time that is not easy, with all of us agreeing, but also thinking about preserving the existing state and structure of the budget, and without some truly vital reforms in the functioning and consumption of the state. And half of the mandate should not expect that things will soon turn to solutions that are long-term positive. This budget cannot be supported because they cannot possibly understand the strategy and objectives of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds. This is also in the 2014 budget of the ministry which again has less funds in its division than the Ministry of Culture. Ministry of Culture 792 million, Ministry of Regional Development 766 million. With such funds, it is not possible to develop assisted areas of this country, with such funds it is not possible to recover funds from funds, with such funds the construction sector has been stopped and thus long-term lost and large numbers of jobs have been lost in the long term. While the minister says yesterday we will stop the loans, some of which are ongoing, which are per country unfavorable, because we have European funds. All and one loan from the EIB 1, 2 and 3, from the CEBs. They are all in the positions of the Ministry of Regional Development. I don't know if there's any good communication, but I think it's probably a good source of funds on favourable interest, which in the days that have passed unfortunately been a great help to local self-government, municipal chiefs and mayors to solve some of their infrastructure problems. We will go through this budget, and it is visible from its execution i.e. projected credit commitments to pay interest and to some companies that were taken in 2000, first, second, and third, and it is truly amazing that we have to repay funds for Viktor Lenac, for PIK Vrbovac, some loans of KFV that were taken by railways and we always interpret it in one subtle way, it's always someone else's fault. Unfortunately, the government will buy new cars in the following year. This year it was 15 kilometers. All ministries, agencies have no problems with maintenance and reconstruction items of the rolling stock. I think there are areas where it can be saved, but that this budget is determined by a whole other sense, and that's why I can't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59952	Thank you. We have two replicas. Ivan Shuker, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59953	My colleague, Boric, let me clear up this mystic about liberating the economy 2% of the contributions. Which of them has the greatest benefit? 240 000 employees who receive salaries from the state budget are about 550 to 600 million less every year with a base of 2% of the health contribution, and this can eventually be seen from the 2012 budget in 2013. Who's next on that list? State-owned enterprises. They have a relatively high wage average, and since we know what the basis for calculating health contributions is, they have reduced the cost of wages. Also, local self-government units. And if we get out of it, so to speak to the state sector, who's next to have high wages? Insurance companies. Therefore, not the banking financial sector, with insurance companies, Leasing companies etc. Next is the banking sector. After the banking sector, telecommunications is, because we have not only reduced the health contribution of 2% but we have freed them from the tax in fact, we have abolished the SMS tax and in such a way made it possible to provide them with another 400 million. Did those for some of them all come together when 500,550 million were added up to new investments? No, they're not. And when you add that to the energy sector and IT technology, then you'll understand that unfortunately a good idea, I won't say it all the time and go where there's no investment. Thus, the state itself has reduced its deficit by some 550 million kunas by reducing its contribution. Those who should really encourage them to invest 20, 30, or 50,000 kuna, which will pay less health contributions, unfortunately, is no incentive to invest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59954	Thank you. We have an answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59955	I agree with my colleague Shuker, it is not for them individually, but politics argues that it is 2.5 billion in total. I also said that the state as the biggest employer with its civil servants and made it possible for itself to spend less. That's what you explained in a nice way. But I also said that at the salary of $5.5,000 we with a reduced health contribution will pay less than 1 920 a year, but with all taxes, burdens, with the purchases that happened both on excise duties and on all other options we will pay an additional 2.5 thousand kuna. And we haven't seen HZZ restructurings. The minister announces next year's health reform. It remains to us that, like everyone else, we believe in it even though we are already in advance, given the past two years, skeptical and I'm afraid that we can really achieve in this state the kind of economy that I say is 6 billion in revenues higher than in 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59956	Thank you. Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59957	Dear colleague, you say unemployment is more than 40,000 people registered at the Croatian Employment Service compared to 2011 if I am not mistaken. You forget that we, in the preparation of the Act on Pre-war settlement, found 25,000 craftsmen and about 29,000 legal entities, or maybe I switched numbers, but I didn't replace that it was cca 70,000 people who were so-called. employees and in companies or crafts blocked up to 365 days and more. And what do you think, where are those 70 grand so-called. The employees ended after essentially the rule of law began to function and these taxpayers had to break up the obviously working relations with those people who unfortunately had not received their salary for a long time and of course ended up at the Croatian Employment Service. Therefore, in this clearing of one situation in the economy, it was the situation that those who were artificially employed essentially came to where unfortunately they should have been before, which is HZZ. And the very fact that the difference between 40,000 and 70,000 that were blocked by companies is obviously one part and found employment or self-employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59958	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59959	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Gjurkovic, look at me, I said that the reason for the smaller incomes of HZZ is not only the reduction of the contribution by 2% but also those 40,000 newly unemployed who were obviously employed somewhere. That number will certainly grow, I compared it in this time we are in. Why is it going to grow? Because he's the one who's not true. According to the HZZ report, only 12,000 people were wiped out in the 10th month. They are not employed by various legal norms. Either they didn't sign up or they didn't go to some seminar or they didn't perform some kind of duty they had as unemployed and HZZ wiped them out. That's what you're admitting yourself. So this number that we have today, 356 grand, maybe in reality, is a lot bigger. Which doesn't mean that it's not true what I said was that we pay more in total in terms of a variety of increases compared to what was reduced to an average net salary of 5.5,000 kuna. And that's where the state oversaw what was popularly said from hollow to empty.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59960	On behalf of the promoter, Minister of Finance Slavko Linic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59961	Not wanting to get into a controversy with an MP, but very clearly in all these 5 billion layoffs in favour of a very difficult situation in the economy and the struggle to train that economy to clean up what was completely wrong, which was dangerous for a healthy part of the economy to move that part away, to simply get rid of it because what had a healthy economy was destroying. Yes, it's unfortunately a very difficult job because you have to open up bankruptcy, you have to carry out pre-fashion proceedings and you have to in some way stop their activity so that unfair competition destroys the few economies that work. Even in this difficult situation, when we give up the enormous resources we really put into the economy, which was not the case in 2009, 2010, when most needed. That's what incomes are all about, no matter what. We give up, we have no economic growth but from 7.4 billion 2011, the revenues are at 108.8 billion, 2012, 2013 will be around 110.5 and we expect 113 billion 2014. They're growing, with everything we've given up and we're making an effort to do something. Yes, gentlemen, you can muddle, dirty, not accept, mocking isn't the problem, but I'd be happier if you were responsible, so at least you could do something to get the economy in place in three of the hardest years so it's not at the bottom like it is today. That's what we're different about. But the truth is, the government does everything on the expense side. It cut wages, three years we have a pay cut from 22.7 billion to 22.4 in 2012 21.7 we have a reduction of 21 4 planned for next year. That with all the inflation, with all the problems these people have, they're simply getting paid. Yes, the government implements politics and strives to show that it can be done in that part. True, that's how we reduce material expenditure, it's interesting for three years, it's symbolic but it's reduced, it's independent energy growth, it's gas, it's electricity, it's independent growth, I'd say other costs of services to increase VAT so you keep saying, we're getting interesting incomes. We also control subsidies and reduce subsidies for the reasons that we have solved the problems in Brodogradnja, while the problems in the railway and air transport are at the end. Thus, the structural problems we have been dealing with for two years reduce our share of subsidies. But what the Government clearly says is, in 2014, the important thing to do is to restructure health care and rehabilitation of health care, not to cover losses, restructuring of social giving and unifying social giving to go towards the one who needs it and not who is registered and dealing with market resales, I would say to the productions and so on, which we insist on reducing and removing from social giving goings and reforming education. And that's a system that means more efficient and fewer employees and less cost. Yes, these reforms have been prepared by the government and these reforms indicate what it will look like, when it will be implemented and what the effects will be in the next three years. This is a document prepared by the government with this budget. And since we were successful in restructuring, because you know it's not easy to send the workers of Gredel to bankruptcy, you were afraid of it, you didn't even want to get rid of the Queen, you were afraid. And we say in 2014 this coalition government will implement reforms to stabilise the expenditure side.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59962	Now we'll hear the lines, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59963	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, I listen very carefully to you and I can't be surprised that this is how you perform in your address. So, you're saying three years have passed, you haven't done anything to save the economy, is that what you said? And you say that so easily and you know for yourself that in 2011 the year in which negotiations for Croatia to join full membership, the year which was also one of the crisis years behind us but that year, as you know, GDP in Croatia was zero, were two positive quarters. The Croatian government then adopted an economic programme, you remember it and this programme, along with all the criticism it has experienced, was the only complete economic document that unfortunately we could not complete. But this is an economic programme that was then adopted includes many reforms. Some have started, the number of agencies has been reduced. Salaries in the public sector have been cut, pensions have also been reduced if you remember that. A series of reforms have been implemented. Yes, it's not all done together then it wouldn't be in that same year which is also one of the crisis years that things and macroeconomic indicators wouldn't be the way they are. I do not claim that some spectacular move and step has been made that would significantly facilitate the situation in Croatia but that it is so black as you say it is not true. On the other hand, you mention the Queen, so I don't think the Queen's bankruptcy is the best solution for the Queen. I think it was of different importance to solve the Queen. The fact that one shipbuilding company went bankrupt and there were other options to be through the concession... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59964	Thank you very much. Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59965	Of course, decisions should be made. Competition for shipyards opened the first time in 2008, in 2011 you stopped functioning, no decision on shipbuilding has been made. So you had 8, 9, 10, 11, four years to solve and what you're going to do with the Queen and what you're going to do with the Third May, and what you're going to do with Brodosplit and what you're going to do with the ship Trogir, four years, Mr. Representative, we've been sitting here for two years, four years we've solved that, and 2008 is the competition, more or less the same customers, no problem if you think I don't need to answer, you don't need to. But that's the job you were supposed to do, that's a job that costs nine billion kuna to this citizen. Imagine if you had solved it in 2008, if you had solved it in 2008 it wasn't to not solve it, then we wouldn't have had another five years of 5 billion that we have to put in the shipyard. Why? Because to get rid of that in 2008, that 5 billion would pay off 9, 10, 11, 12 and imagine this year 100 percent of the shipbuilding. Are we gonna talk about the railroad? You've been paying out of the railroad's salary budget. If you think this is a way of restructuring I have no comment because you probably shouldn't have taken Gredel in bankruptcy either, that I'm not talking to a number of following companies along the Croatian railways. Yeah, you need to make that decision, you need to be willing. And that's why I'm saying, if we knew how to solve this, which is not easy, be assured we'll solve health problems and social and education. It is certain that these reforms will be implemented and that in the year 14 we will show that we are able to stabilise the expenditure side.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59966	Thank you. Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59967	She's nervous again and she's making noise again. Mr. OIB's social contributions were introduced among other things and due to social contributions. And when you look at the Social Welfare Act that was proposed, then you won't achieve what you're proposing. Why? In your own ministry you have a project to see in the Department of International Co-operation and the Ministry of Social Care that it is clearly said that only connecting if you do not go to property censorship and family status will not be done what needs to be done. Since there was an OIB, the question arises why hasn't the Ministry of Social Affairs imported this informationally together? But I'm saying it's your right to say it. The amount of salaries in the state budget has been reduced by 550 million due to reduced contributions. That's 550 million worth of pay. In 2011, despite what you're saying, economic recovery measures led to two quarters having a positive growth, and at an annual level it was zero, and perhaps if you had continued with these measures until you reached your own programmes, maybe the situation would have been different. But around the shipbuilding, it's really not clear to me that this is true what you're saying, so we wouldn't have finished our shipbuilding chapter would not have ended the negotiations. You're practically welcome to sign all the contracts. And when you talk about how much the shipbuilding cost, Mr. Minister, in 2003, the 8 billion that you then gave as vice president for the rehabilitation of shipbuilding are not cash, but the same deficit has been made, and probably these loans that are being reprogrammed today are also 8 billion kunas. Therefore, mentioning 2008, 2008 was not clearly defined what would happen with shipbuilding, it was not clear. You know as well as I do. And the other thing, remember here is the debate about when the city of Rijeka said it would give a guarantee to May 3rd if the state couldn't give if Brussels didn't allow it because it was considered illegal... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59968	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59969	Okay. So we're really incompetent, now I'm talking to you MPs. Imagine the OIB solved nothing we did, no property censorship. It's been resolved and the pay accounting system, the system, so I've personally been struggling for two years to apply this system, I'm struggling. A good part of the minister is struggling. The last six months the defence minister has gone crazy with this COP, but be careful everything has been solved only we are stupid, unable to apply. Shipyards, they didn't know what '08 was a tragedy. They promised to sell and announced the tender if it was in agreement with Europe, they promised Europe. So they didn't know in 2008 but they prepared everything for us. In 2011, everything was ready. My men, a year and a half of conversation with May 3rd, difficult conversations with Brodosplit, the Queen's decision did not propose it for bankruptcy, they did not. So they had to stay, everything had to be privatized, they just didn't want to sign the contract. I'm really wondering if this government, when it's all so beautifully arranged, is it really a government that needs to be held accountable for these results? Indeed, the economy was beautifully arranged, 45 billion of each other's outstanding liabilities, 50 billion unpaid state revenues. Truth not in the last eight years, the last 20 years. Yeah, it's all so wonderfully arranged, but here's what we don't know what to do. I agree, but we're going to try to show that this sort of thing at the end of the term we're really not going to leave. I'd be a really irresponsible person if I said you'd leave such wonderful things to an heir.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59970	Thank you very much. Young Novak replica. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59971	Thank you very much. I have to react since several times today, although yesterday, the prime minister and you are on several occasions, and finally you mentioned the HZ and concluded that at the end of the restructuring of HZ. So now I really don't know what to say about it if you think this HH restructuring I'm taking off your hat then we really have a different idea about it. The last thing I'd do is defend HDZ on that. I claim that for their eras there was a disaster made from HH, but that doesn't mean that I'll mention that in their time it was out for wages, does there have been any railways that were profitable that brought profits to the state budget? I have to admit, I don't know about such a railroad in Europe. If you think the successful restructuring of HZ is that Cargo was destroyed, and it was destroyed, that HZ passenger transport is at never worse level, it was never worse and it was a fact. The fact that there's a lot of money invested in the infrastructure and I'm taking off my hat, but at the same time we're selling spring buildings, so it's a service company, so nobody's ever done that. There's a lot of where there's illogicality. I suppose you know, and you know for a fact, the complete ring around Zagreb is the railways, no one is driving anywhere. And we're talking about how bad Cargo is to us that he can't even make his own minimum. Well, it's impossible. It's just impossible if you close all his tracks and tell him to get old and do business at least. How come he has to pay 19,000 euros per train that drives him across Slovenia?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59972	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59973	Yeah, those are the moves that require determination. Why did Gredell leave? It's very simple. We have a CARGO that has old locomotives, old trains that don't even get fixed anymore, they don't get better. CARGO is not due to any repair of those wagons. We're used to the freight traffic living on the state budget of the one who's supposed to make from the transport of the goods for locomotives, for trains, for their wages. Yeah, that's not the kind of cargo that's gonna stay. Or someone will buy it, give it to him and invest new locomotives and trains. Because simply the state budget will no longer be paid for the functioning of CARGO. Travellers, yes, are being restructured, a mass of non-basic activities is moving and at the same time new fast passenger compositions are being negotiated that will not be spent on diesels that need to draw 150 wagons. Yeah, it's all done in a year and a half. When we talk about infrastructure, nothing is invested, the speed on the tracks is 40 kilometers. What's that put on the tracks? It needs to be changed, it needs to be invested. And that's why the money will come from the European Union, but we must and our own resources, so it's a proposal that you'll probably get the law on tomorrow that 20 of the gas is also being cut out for such investments. Yeah, and that's the proposal and that's all restructuring reforms. And the railways will be a private company, if they want to work because they're not railways, and that's something to change. You don't like it. Well, I know a lot of people aren't into reform. So much has been done. Well, as you can see, resistance everywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59974	We're continuing our discussion with colleagues, Nadia Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59975	Thank you, esteemed vice president, respected ministers, deputy assistant, respected colleagues and colleagues. The question is, today, when we talk about the 2014 budget, how to deal with the huge budget deficit, which is why we are going to enter the excessive deficit procedure. In fact, the deficit increases public debt, greater public debt means greater interest for its service, bigger interest means an even greater deficit, and that is one vicious circle that closes at ever higher and higher levels. The question is, is there any way out of that vicious circle? There is. The exit is economic growth. Because every point of economic growth generates several billion new budget revenues. And those are the most faithful billions because they're ours, and we're not paying interest on them. It is a new value that will begin to pay off, among other things, the principal of our huge public debt. Croatia may not be over-indebted in some global or European frameworks, and for a while there will be those who will want to buy our bonds. However, Croatia's public debt is too high compared to our level of development, our competitiveness and our tax burden. So far, with constant borrowing, Croatia has managed to serve only interest on debt. So, we've heard more than once in this assembly of Croatia in 20 years, 23 years of its existence failed to bring back a single kuna of the principal. Unfortunately, while there is no expected economic growth, the main debt cannot be reduced differently than unfortunately by selling state assets. So the postal bank and Croatia's insurance are not sold because it's our choice but because we don't have a choice. In the 2014 macroeconomic projections, planning economic growth of 1.3%, some consider it unrealistic, pre-optimistic. So on the one hand, we have observations that we're pessimists, so on the other hand, we're too optimistic. But this government is convinced that this growth will be achieved because it has all subordinated to that goal and has done everything to ensure assumptions for economic growth. Therefore, aid to the economy is indeed the backbone of economic policy, the coalition government. And let me say something about the measures that have been taken in that sense. First of all, these are measures to decommission the economy aimed at increasing the competitive capacity of the economy or training the economy for a demanding competition. What are the specific measures? So, it's about reducing the health care contribution, reducing the gross labour price by 13%, leaving over 2 billion kuna to entrepreneurs. The same objective, therefore, is to disbursement the economy has a reduction in the fall in fiscal burdens of which the effect of which is 675 million kuna and also the measure of raising the threshold for entering the VAT system from 80 to 230 thousand kuna. During this measure and the VAT system, nearly 27 thousand entrepreneurs came out. The following measure is an exemption from the taxation of reinvested profits which seeks to increase the capitalisation rate of economic operators and to encourage economic operators to invest. In fact, business banks are full of money but are not willing to follow companies financially and one of the great reasons is their sub-capitalization. In fact, the average share of capital in our companies if they are excluded from the public, large infrastructure companies is only 20%. This measure was used in 2013 by almost 2000 companies which increased their core capital by nearly 6 billion kuna and that is certainly a good basis for future investments. Exactly the fact that business banks are not too in the mood to deal with the risk of corporate lending, the government went to an increased payment of core capital to the HBOR therefore to our state development bank. Such increased payments of €600 million annually in 2012, and thus in 2014 the core capital of HBOR has been increased more than all years before, so far. And it's very close to the law establishing the amount of core capital under the HBOR Act of 7 billion kuna. The payment of the underlying capital of the bank enabled even more extensive borrowing and placement to domestic investors of the investment credit, for export and for crafts, under very favourable conditions. So today in HBOR you can really get a loan by less than 2%. The next set of government measures refers to the regulation of the financial obligations of entrepreneurs through the reprogramme, so a total of three cycles of reprogramme have been made and through a pre-fashion settlement covering over 5,000 entities. The result of these measures is the reduction of liquidity by more than 10 billion kuna, i.e. the debtors are allowed to pay from an account, so relatively normal business, and the creditors will be settled to a far higher degree, in a far higher percentage than would be the case that bankruptcy proceedings were opened above them. Furthermore, financial discipline was established through fiscalisation, traffic in some activities increased several times, and in fact, there was a tax ejaculation. A medical system has been rehabilitated. In order to create conditions for the stability of the system and the full application of the Financial Business Act, i.e. to pay within 30 and 60 days. The rescue has cost the state budget by now 3.3 billion kuna. Tourism has been stimulated as the most potent economic activity through a 25 to 10 VAT reduction, and 13%, respectively. This measure of tourism activity, or catering, left 950 million kuna. Furthermore, a number of major state systems are being restructured. The furthest went to HZ, and then there was HAC, the problem of shipbuilding was solved, etc. The truth is, the restructuring of these major state-owned companies, as well as the pre-profit settlement procedures, have their own price, unfortunately we are all aware of that. It's a high unemployment rate, a high unemployment rate. In addition to these measures taken by the Government in a wide range of areas, a very important fact should be mentioned. In fact, savings in banks are growing, the truth is slower than in pre-crisis years but it's growing and it's currently at 180 billion kuna. It's a huge capital, it's a very valuable resource that should really be put into service of precisely economic growth. All in all, as much as it is denied has been done much, despite the very narrowed room of manoeuvre and despite the devastated economy. What's not good and what we can't be satisfied with is that it still doesn't have the right effects of all these measures. So there's still something missing, there's still no spark that would trigger economic growth, and that spark is trust. So there is still no trust, and obviously everything is much easier to achieve than gaining trust from citizens, and also from economic operators, which is actually not weird when every day in front of them are affairs where greedy and insecure political clients have spent millions of kunas of Croatian citizens for private collections, for villas, for farms, for collections and God knows what else. How much public money is actually permanently immobilized in these completely unproductive goods. It's really a crime. The 2014 budget was not easy to draw up, this is our first European budget, however, as the proposed budget guarantees the sustainability of the system and this is very important at the moment. And all the reliefs, measures and support that I have listed and talked about, which have been given to the economy, will result in entrepreneurs having to know that without their engagement and without their responsibility there will be no such results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59976	Thank you Replica, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59977	Thank you very much. Well, since your ministers and prime minister very often like to mention a successful example of HZ restructuring, I don't think it's weird that everyone else is talking about it, but trust me for a very short time, you'll find it's a hollow story that's unfortunately going the wrong way. Now, I have no doubt that you all trust your people from there, but very soon you'll be aware that everything is on the wrong track at all. As far as I'm concerned, you keep mentioning in these theft discussions, all that stolen property, and I absolutely agree with it, and I think those who made it possible for them, who kept quiet, watched it the same time, and while some find excuses, would they end up singing in a pot, it's an unacceptable excuse for anyone. But it's a crime to be prosecuted, it can be processed, it can determine how much damage was done, where eventually the money ended and did something about it. But I'm asking you if legally, this Parliament brings laws that are at our expense, to the detriment of this country, that we go privatizing everything, what about it? It's knowingly done damage in this nation, in this country, and we're all going with some parole economic recovery, so the rotten grandmother flax, this, that, but it's all stories. I'd like you to believe what you're saying, but I can't even believe it. I can't even believe it. I think this is just what a learned story is that even the one who says it doesn't believe right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59978	Thank you very much. Replication response, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59979	So now it's a hollow witness. So far, this has obviously not been a hollow story, so far, while the state has been funding huge subsidies to support the employment of unnecessary people, so a huge number of unnecessary but similar people. So what do we have today? The Croatian railway is going 40km/h, so it can't do that anymore. He can't. .../The Intruder doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59980	Gold shower, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59981	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Jelash, maybe this is the last thing you said I wanted to do was replicate something else, but it's a little bit of an association. But I think this government is going 40 miles an hour, too. You said we were in a vicious circle. The question is whether we have a way out of this vicious circle, that only economic growth is a way out, to serve only interest, and not a major debt that I agree with you. And then you said you didn't have any other exits and choices because you had to sell the Croatian postal bank and Croatia's insurance. Does that mean I have to ask myself if we don't have a way out of this vicious circle and we won't have economic growth. Because what it means is if we two successful profit-making companies want to sell at a time when we know we can't get the price they're worth to them. Selling something invaluable won't get us out of this situation. We'll still stay in a vicious circle and still drive 40 miles an hour and we won't get out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59982	Replication response, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59983	Comrade Tušak, so when it comes to the government, this comparison of the railroad with the government is not very successful. So, when it comes to the government, it's better to drive 40 miles an hour than to take off the rails. When I was talking about the return of the principal, I said that we really weren't able for so long until we had no economic growth that would generate these new budget revenues, and we're in a situation where we have to start paying back the main public debt that is huge and that generates constantly new interest that increases the deficit. We're calculating the deficit into public debt, and that's that vicious circle. So, while there is no economic growth unfortunately, we must go to the sale of state property, but we always stress those state assets that are not of strategic importance to us. So, not to elaborate too far at the moment, that's the Post Office Bank and that's Croatia's insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59984	Can we go on? Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59985	Madam Vice President, my colleague Jelash is very simple. What would happen to Croatia is that what you say is true that indifference has been reduced, several billion kunas have been injected into the financial system of Croatia. That would have happened to bloom. That would look like a meadow after the rain. But what really happened to all this indifference? Administratively erasing how to forgive taxes, both from taking down a list blocked because of a deal like this or a deal like that. Will any of you charge for it? We'll see. But at this point, it's an administrative reduction, and we just have to be aware of that. And that administrative reduction can be pretty much broken in the head at some point. Therefore, so much is done for the truth. But I repeat, if such money had entered the payment system of the Republic of Croatia miracles would have happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59986	The answer to Nadica Jelash's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59987	Look at fellow Shuker. We weren't really making up hot water right now. So, this reduction process, the outstanding commitments, we did during the period, so in the term of 2001, 2003, and we really solved the indifference. I agree with you, this is an administrative solution to indivisibility but you actually enable it to unblock the accounts of business entities and allow them to start working, that they work. And what if we let that indifference continue because no one can pay anyone. So where would the end be?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59988	Now we'll continue the debate. A colleague Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59989	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister and Assistant Minister. We are discussing today the budget on state finances and of course we have different views, different views. But I believe that we will all agree on one thing, which is that stable or good state finances and the state budget are not without a stable economy, without a good economy, without an emerging economy, which has a positive, positive growth rate. I'm sure we'll agree on that. And if, and we are discussing the 2014 Budget, we have an economic growth of five, six percent of the many of these things we are discussing would not be current and would hurt all of us and would look much nicer in the state budget. Unfortunately, we don't. But some expect it to be, and they accuse the government that that's what she's not able to do, that she's incompetent, etc. In order to have stable economic growth, several factors must be met. It's one thing to see what the situation in our environment is, in the environment we're in. Finally, we are recently full members of this environment, it is about the EU. We are now members of this European economic space. The second is that the state takes action and does not take action and what else it might do. The third is what the economy and the private sector are doing and the fourth is a general social climate. Let's take it in a row. Around the environment, the situation in the EU. So it would be nice if we had a five, six percent growth rate. Is that real? Of course not. It's because we have a bad government like this. Of course not, nor is the government bad, nor is it because of her. Why? So if maybe our government is bad too, it's not bad for other governments or the devil that all governments in the EU are bad. For example, one Germany which is a strong economy, the large state plans to grow next year only 1.7%, and not by the European Commission's estimates. The same European Commission estimates that Austria, for example, will have an even closer growth rate of 1.6. The Netherlands's same developed country will only have 0.2. Or even closer to us, Italy will have a growth of only 0.7% according to the European Commission's estimates. Closer, Slovenia will have a decline, an economic downturn of 1%. Now is it realistic to expect Croatia to have an economic growth of 3,4,6,5 or 6%. I don't think so. And that this growth that we're not going to have because of this government that, for some, is bad for him because we're in such an environment. When we talk about this environment, let me remind you when Mario Monti came to Italy to power, so as a non-party government, as the world's great manager to get Italy out of the crisis. The result of this professional professional, management-good government that was superseded was that Italy ended that year in an economic downturn. And they didn't have the SDP government, so you can see that it's not just the government's problem, as much as the environment. What is the state doing? What's in her power. I believe that public investment took place the way we are responsible for leaving a truly high amount of public investment that only there is to be realised by income and power. I wish I did, but unfortunately not. Here is the Zagreb airport which was almost a project, we see that it is now going into realisation. Unfortunately, it wasn't correct for an investment, for starters. I wish it was. So the public investment state is trying to do what's in its power. We have also passed the Strategic Investments Act where we want to, therefore, respecting all laws, all regulations, respecting spatial plans just to speed up whoever has the money and wants to invest. The state does what it can. There is no development, we will agree, in an assembly of states, inefficient etc. but here's the efficiency will show on this law that whoever wants to invest, that the state will do everything in its power. Is the state together? so it might still be, but 5 billion at the annual level is less in the budget and left to the economy. There were a lot of words about it today, and just before my colleague Jelash spoke, so the state gives as much as possible, as it can, as much as possible on her part to encourage the economy. Five billion is not small, it's not small if the economy gets it. On the other hand, HBOR is being recapitalised and we encourage it to lend cheap loans because we are aware that the economy cannot develop or that it is difficult to develop with such expensive capital, with these loans. And it can't be competitive. In Germany, development companies receive loans with one, two tops of their head three percent. We have 6, 7, 8, and 10%. Of course, it's hard to develop with such loans, with such expensive capital and you're not competitive but the state does a lot more with its HBOR bank than the previous government is to be as favourable loans and that the economy can come up let's say approximately not yet competitive but approximately competitive capital such as other companies abroad. We see these last days that the CNB, by reducing reserves, in banks, will reduce the reserve so that it will place a certain amount of funds, each bank that will reduce its reserve so if it credits a particular health program, etc. with a specified criterion. Although four billion as planned in this way enters the economy under a lot of favourable loans than they are commercially existing and it is a great effort of the state and it is something that can produce results. Finally, we expect that the money that will come to us and it is not about small money to give optimism and give cause that next year and next year we have much better growth rates. The EU's multiannual financial framework forecasts for Croatia in these seven years somewhere that we will withdraw around 11.6 billion euros and give about 3.5 billion euros, so the net inflow will be over 6.7 billion. That's huge money, 6.7 billion euros. Somewhere over a billion euros a year that will come as a net inflow that will certainly be a good incentive to move forward. Of course, when there's no money, you have to be in charge. Is this deficit that we're going to do this year, which next year we're going to make relatively big, not the biggest, there are the bigger ones, we're talking about. But when we look at our deficit practically covering only three items, it will swallow the entire deficit. These are interest on loans, 11.6 billion, EU contribution plus what we have to give ourselves to realise the projects that we will finance from the EU, we come to 18 billion of what we didn't have until yesterday when it came to the EU's contribution and the interest was not this big until yesterday, but they were significantly less. Because it's no problem to be in charge, the problem is that these funds are being invested in development, that these funds give a new value tomorrow, from which we'll all be able to live together tomorrow. And to remove that maybe one is not good, of course, to be in debt but to open up a mantra that often times... Over-indebted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are a country in charge, and we will cross the 60% threshold most likely next year, which is prescribed by the EU but we are not the only one, we are not the exception in Europe, many countries not to mention Greece, the EU has much more debt than we do, Belgium has 105% compared to GDP, Ireland 125, Spain 92, France 93, Italy 133, Portugal 131, Great Britain 89. They're all more in charge relatively than we are of their GDP, but the question is, how do we manage these funds, where will these funds go? Is she going to come up with a new development and we're going to be able to run it? We believe all this work has been done lately. All these measures that serve to encourage the economy to deliver results and that this will be, that next year will be the first year in a series of next years that will ensure positive economic growth and then ensure stable state finances.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59990	Thank you. Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59991	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague Jelusic, your exposure was entirely intonated in a way as if the SDP were not in power and therefore you find a series of justifications that we can agree that some are justified, but a large part of your arguments are not justified. But I will mention one part in which you spoke about investments when you mentioned Zagreb Airport. You say here we solve this investment, but because of the unfinished documentation, it's not over yet, but it's just not going to be started. That's not true. Namely, the contract between the ministry and concessionaries was signed last April 11th, and according to the contract, the concessionaire was scheduled to issue a construction permit within 6 months, close the financial structure and create a plan for the acquisition of employees of Zagreb Airport. Six months have passed under the contract, the government could approve another 6 months that also expired on 11 April this year, so exactly 7 months ago the contract was put out of force. I'm here in the Parliament trying to make sure the Ministers of Resolute or Finance explain to us what's going on with this project. Is it still in effect that the government was supposed to break it up, is there a plan to take over employees of Zagreb Airport, which is why a few days ago and was a strike at Zagreb Airport, is the closed financial structure? You said it was near the end I don't know if that construction was closed because in the meantime the concessionist transferred the concession to another company and founded five of his daughters who were supposed to take over part of those employees. So you're talking about investments, but you haven't realised an investment in 19 months for which you signed the contract. Therefore, the law on strategic and investment projects and everything you're saying simply falls into the water on this exam when what you inherited for what you signed the contract can't be realised within 20 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59992	The reply to the replica Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59993	My colleague Bacic, you resent me for saying that I speak as if the SDP is not in power. I'm saying that I'm really aware that the SDP is in power, but you're saying that you're not aware that HDZ was in power. so you forget that HDZ's entire airport project led him to the end we only technically completed it and signed it, and all of you led to the end of practically selecting the concessionaire etc. And if that concessionary you've all brought to an end and if that concessionary didn't provide the funds now in time... that means you didn't do a good job in preparation. And that's exactly what I'm talking about is that you were saying that your projects were finished, that they were completed, so it should probably be the first month when the contract was signed and started, but unfortunately it's not. You prepared it, and that's exactly what I was talking about. As for the second part, I am aware that the SDP is in power and I was just talking about it and I was talking about everything that makes the SDP better. Because I repeat several times I said that there are no of our economic policy measures that are going towards promoting the development of the economy of these famous 5 billion that we leave to the economy annually, I assure you, that the growth rates would be much worse, or that the economic downturn would be in Croatia at levels 3, 4 maybe 5% and then be up to all of us. As we continued to implement the economic and economic policy that you led today, we would be far worse and deeper in the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59994	Young Novak replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59995	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić started the topic around the Zagreb Airport, so I won't be longer about it, but I think you'll feel the consequences of these five companies, which were founded as quickly as possible from what to read, they don't have a say in the accounts. But if I remember the contract well, did you sign it, or was it signed by this government, but if it wasn't good enough for you to sign it? All the time, all the MPs on this side are talking about economic growth. However, I would remind you of the growth first of last night when the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget was a sort of controversy between the two ministers of one former and one current Mr. Shuker and Mr. Linic when Mr. Linic said at one point that the only way out of privatisation and that privatisation turned out to be everything. Now, on the contrary, I remind you that in the 7th month, we brought back the Law on State Property Management. The same law provides the State Office for State Property Management by 31.10. to the Government with an annual plan for managing state assets relating to 2014. This same plan should have been the basis for this budget. But not only has this plan not been delivered, it has not been adopted, but at least according to what it is said in the media to read that state office has practically not yet functioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59996	The reply to the replica Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59997	My colleague Novak, when something doesn't come in a year, two doesn't work, when something is brought in on time, then you say it's quick. That's how you Labourists always judge what's done. If we hadn't passed this State Property Management Act, you would have called us and why didn't you bring it in for two years, you're in power. Now that we brought it in last summer you say you brought it in quick. Well, I don't know what's more to you than just criticizing, so it's not important for that head or tail to be criticized. It was therefore not brought in quickly, it was adopted after long lengthy preparations. This state office is already working seriously, and if you don't have to brag about it, but don't attack it, that state office has finally started salinizing to see everything we have to know is in one place and to start doing it the way it belongs. So I accept that you're in opposition that you have to criticise but you're letting her not only be a critic but she has a head and a tail.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59998	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u59999	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelusic, you're a bit of an ominous as he likes to say Mr. Maras, your minister listed everything, and then you said that positive economic growth would be good if 5% to 6% seemed so also ominous, 5. 6.7% can be 10%, right? So you mentioned the Zagreb Airport, and you didn't mention the French fax company, so the one who's interested, that's what it's called in the people fax company, right, and you didn't even check out its bonus that actually looks like zero. As Strabak also signed with Osijek that dump so now Osijek has to pay 80 million kuna back so for those tunnels signed by HDZ we also paid to a foreign company and also... so somehow millions and millions of euros. So when you talk about positive economic growth what to say about health consulting companies and the sale of Croatian HPB companies, Croatia insurance paid for 70 million kuna. The same French firm, right? What? ... Yeah, it's interesting, yeah, it's a clean start, isn't it? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's like we have no idea how much our companies cost. But good. What particularly intrigued me is that you said that over the next seven years we would have a fee for EU membership of 2.3 billion euros. So you know what the EU membership fee is, 600m euros a year. 7 years times 600 million 4 billion and 200 million euros. And you know how much we're offered, we're offered around somewhere, so let's say it's obvious that it's 9, 10 billion. That's not the difference you said we have 8.9 billion at our disposal. And ultimately, that availability proved best in this year, only 6m euros more than we paid for the participations. 6m euros, that's what your minister, Branko Grcic, said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60000	Thank you. Replication response, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60001	I told my colleague Grubisic, so I will repeat the exact figures around the EU. The EU's multiannual financial framework envisions 11.6 billion euros for Croatia. That's what we can do if we're... Which we can withdraw from the EU. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What's our contribution? One percent of the existing EU rules, 1% of GDP. As much as we grow in GDP, our contribution will be greater. Unfortunately, it will not have 10% growth rates so that it will increase enormously but God has given to increase this means that we will get better. So that 1% is at the annual level, let's go 3.5 billion. Will it rise in the last year by 7 years 4 billion? We'll see. I'd like it to get higher that means our GDP is bigger. Now, if on the basis of this kind of GDP, we're going to pay in 7 years, so I'm saying 3.5 billion, 3,600 to 4 billion, and we're going to withdraw 11.6 is a difference of 7.6 billion euros. That's more than a billion euros a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60002	And Igor Radjenović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60003	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Jelusic, one of the debates that was a good debate in my court, which actually pointed to the gravity of the situation on one side, but also showed that there is this light at the end of the tunnel that with the responsible and effective management of everyone in society, of course, at the head of the government and everyone else we can come to. Namely, it is not easy to reverse trends but there is no solution either, and you have shown it well in your debate some sudden turns with magic sticks, solutions on the button or the button is not easy to get to, it is certainly not easy to come to a solution. And especially not, you mentioned in the economic environment that we have mentioned neighbouring countries and just countries that are our most important foreign trade partners, meaning another difficult circumstance that stands for us in the short term for the next year, given that the trends in Italy and Austria, especially in Slovenia, are not particularly favourable. In Germany, here's my colleague Goga and I are looking at a major coalition that has reached 10 points, so we expect that after the brief political instability of things will get better. So I'm not optimistic in the short term, but I share your optimism on the long term. Your colleagues have now objected to you, but in any case, positive net effects from the EU have said you have billion kunas per year will certainly help Croatia if, of course, we will behave responsibly and if we ourselves know what we are doing and how we are doing. What is difficult and what problem should not be underestimated and I will end up with my replica is you were talking about a public debt and a deficit that may not be so alarming and some countries have something greater debt but the difficult situation for Croatia is this and we believe there is an even shorter circumstance that there is therefore no economic growth but it is more difficult and more dangerous for public debt, and that is why it is dangerous because Croatia owes itself significantly, significantly higher interest. So, the countries you mentioned the type of Belgium that have a public debt of over 100% are in debt at 1.2%, and we're here with a success of 6.2%. That's the problem, and we need to take it seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60004	Thank you. I'm a colleague of Ivan Shuker's. Here's to the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60005	Thank you very much... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60006	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60007	Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I've been defending this for the past 15 years, and in seven, I've been acting as an opposition representative, and a man listens to everything and everything. And that's the normal thing, the different we are. But three things are today that have never happened in the past 15 years. One is that the proposer has never found it appropriate to speak shorter and less about the budget. The second is that no fewer MPs have applied for the budget. And the third one that may most say about this budget is none of the boredoms nor the proponents nor the ruling MPs have said that this programme is social and developmental. And that may be the most talking about this budget, but we're going in a row. So this debate wouldn't be a political debate, I'm going to try to paralyze with what the government wrote in the draft budget. But what is crucial from which this 2014 budget cannot be escaped is the result of work or not the work of this Government. Because this budget for 2014 can no longer be said to be someone else's fault, for two years it was this budget 2014. It's a logical thing in a kind of cycle that he usually does not have any crisis disorders in the third year of the term of office giving results, giving fruit. Just like when you plow a field in the fall and in the spring it's known when the fruits are harvested. That's what this budget was supposed to be. However, this budget explains that the revenue side will deal with expected recovery and stronger economic activities. The Prime Minister said this morning that 1% of economic growth means nothing on the revenue side. So he's automatically disabling himself. Certain changes in the tax system for those 40 million on the PPDS and on profits and some 10 million on some other on the PPDS and mountainous areas will fix the state budget, they will not. But the government also says that income movements other than economic activities will also take part in an increase between 10% and 13%. Very interesting when, for catering, not for tourism but for catering, we reduced the rate from 25 to 10% then it was spoken as an injection to the economy, after 4 months it serves something else but then. Also in the government's explanation, excise duties will be increased and the revenue side will be recovered from this base. ... withdrawing the profits of state-owned companies, the question now arises, if HEP will be the bearer of the investment cycle in Croatia, if the HAC is being reduced by funds and so is the problem, if Croatia is selling insurance and if the HPB is selling, if it is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] INA in such problems as it is from which companies we will withdraw the profits to make it a more significant revenue from the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's a colleague and a colleague of mine who writes that in the government's explanation of the income side. And as for the expense party, I could repeat that debate I had yesterday. Why? Well, because practically nothing's changed. Look. Civilian and household benefits are your pensions plus your health benefits of 63 billion and 975 million. So you have social benefits of 6 billion, salaries without material costs because there are neither 20 billion, interest rates 10 billion, material expenditures 8300 and subsidies 6 or something else. Practically the same expense side as what we talked about yesterday. And now we come up with key things, we can agree with them or disagree with them, and can be colleague Linic or colleague Slavko since for many years we have been fighting with me like this or disagreeing, but the truth is that today the Prime Minister was there and he had to say what the Minister of Finance would not say for collegiate, for this and that reason. The Ministry of Finance has put their colleagues into houses. Why? I say it out loud here. If certain reforms were implemented, the result would be seen on the expenditure side. There's no such thing as a colleague or a colleague. Why? So yesterday I deliberately quote those figures and now I quote them and you see that there's no difference and we can argue here as much as we want. But these are facts that are what they are. So not implementing structural reforms has unfortunately led to our spending party being the way it is. And as time goes by, the less and less space there is to intervene on. Like I might have done some things before. And I was also in a position where I had to put what was left of a deal in the house. So that's where we are. However, what is crucial and perhaps should not be made public because it is difficult to admit whether we have really removed administrative barriers for investors. And we can talk here one way or another. Your colleagues and colleagues in Croatia have only a few entrepreneurs who can invest. And this guy on the outside, if he comes in, he's just looking for everything and everything to let him in. Did we do it? I don't think so. Regardless of all these laws that the ruling coalition colleagues have mentioned, it's easy to pass the law, we've passed a series of laws. This stops somewhere in the ministry, somewhere in local self-government. You've got great mayors who've put up administrations and got a building permit in seven days, and it's no problem. So it's also done that it's not all the way it is. Now what probably the minister and the ruling will not agree with me, and this has shown experience in other countries is not a tax burden of glue or bait to which investors will attract. It's just something that someone in a competitive game decides to give up and they'll say here, I'll give it to you, so I'm more favourable than my neighbor, come invest with me, I'd say it the least. However, what anyone who invests in money wants to know is what tax policy awaits him for the next 5, 6 years. And that's why I said it yesterday and I say it today and I know why I'm saying it, and the minister knows it, tax reform had to go in the package. If it couldn't have happened in the package, it shouldn't have happened at all. I think it would be a far better thing for the revenue side budget. And to contribute what I'm saying, I'm not going to repeat, the greatest benefit from that was the state budget and those who have high wages that they didn't need at all. Unfortunately for those who would have been injected, it's too little money, but O.K. And what wasn't said at all today, which is the concept of government, and I respect that. It's the political commitment of this government, I disagree. But whoever's in power, he takes responsibility and that's privatisation. So definitely in this budget we have been sent a message from the Croatian highways going to privatise, monetize and what will be called. This sent a message. Whether these 60 limes should have been distributed in one way or another. Is there a particular law in the House to discuss privatisation... that's the same thing, to go to the soul of those who are in power but simply to say it here? Also, Croatian road funds are the means for which units of local self-government cry out because many units of local self-government by building highways have become county roads... Countys simply cannot maintain cities. They're the same facts we can't escape from. The Croatian Post Bank and Croatia Insurance, and that's where we can fight. I personally don't think it should have been sold, so more so that Croatia's insurance at least as far as I know it has been in recent times, so since the time of Curkovic, through the other directors, no profits have been raised and no payments have been made to the state budget. I think there is somewhere around 680 million retained to obtain Croatia's insurance. And finally HBOR and HNB. My colleagues and colleagues, look at that table I spoke about both to the Prime Minister this morning and yesterday when I spoke about budgeting, then you'll see that the HBOR funds are in the finance account. So 600 million and plus 375 for the FGS states are in debt. It is written in the budget below the line or on the fifth at the Ministry of Finance to make it easier for you, but they are not a deficit of the state budget because the state thereby increases practically its assets by shares. But we still had to charge for that amount to get HBOR. The CNB, however, is not the first time that the CNB releases funds, but here is counterpart Linic remembers it well when that model A started, and the CNB released funds, but unfortunately our companies are in such a situation that they cannot satisfy bank loans and cannot get credit because they are low capitalised. And colleagues and colleagues, when we round it all together, and when we remove the policy from the profession, then we get to the 18 billion deficit, and we all have to imagine where this ship is going. And we can fight politically as much as we want, he's who he is. We can differ around the method, but these are the facts that I feel personally and as a representative and as a member of the HDZ... here to say. Whoever has the counterargument can speak freely.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60008	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60009	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Shuker, on several occasions in your presentation, you touched the charges from the fuel of 60 limes, which is the revenue of the Croatian highways. As we heard from the government's representative this morning, I don't know if he was Prime Minister or Minister of Finance, this fee will now suddenly not be based on what becomes the revenue of the budget, i.e. it will be redirected to building probably HZ infrastructure. It is likely to be done for the reason the government intends to monetize or privatise Croatian highways and thus release the obligations of investment in highways and funds towards HZ. The first thing you said yourself, I don't know what law to monetize Croatian highways or privatisation, it would have been good if that law had been here in Parliament, and then we would have touched indirectly and these fees that will no longer be income that will then be invested in the construction of road infrastructure. But the question can be asked how and in what way does the government think about it by law, and on the other hand the question can be asked whether those parts of Croatia, for example my Dubrovnik-Neretva County which does not yet have a centimeter of highways, now that a network of highways has been built in Croatia, when almost all the counties or very large part of the county centres are connected on the highway. Why now, if we were to come to order or Sisak-Moslavina, the highway to Sisak or Bjelovar or Koprivnica, why are we now rerouting those funds to the railways when we were expecting that maybe we should be up for the construction of the highway. Now those funds will be rerouted to the railroad. I say it may not be justified, but if something deserved to be discussed here in the Parliament, then it is precisely the way in which all Croatian citizens have been allocated funds that we have invested in Croatian highways together, and they have not, for example, come to our county.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60010	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60011	Yes, my colleague Bačić, I have therefore said that I believe that the Law on Public Roads had to be discussed in this high house because if the Government had not already enabled us, I have given the opportunity to discuss the model of monetization and privatisation or what it is called or the cashing of Croatian highways then through the Law on Public Roads we would have the opportunity to say what we think here because these money cannot be singled out for HZ or for Croatian roads until the Law on Public Roads is changed. Therefore, it is a model that has also proposed and passed the law of the former coalition government. Also if we want 20 lipes to go to HH, then it has to be regulated by the Law on Railways. Why? Because these are excise duties where the European Union directive limits, actually defined how much must be minimum excise duty, and then we changed the Public Roads Act to make these 1.20 kunas excise duties, so that we don't have to have a minimum excise duty of, say, 2 kunas or 90 bucks for diesel, we still have to add 1.20 kuna to that. So all this legislation has to be covered so we don't get pucks, but probably that's why it was logical for a government official this morning when he represented the budget to say this because it might be the most important thing. Because look, if we like to argue that 40 and how many billions of kuna are spent on the roads, then it's very important how much we get from that concessionary, how much credit he'll take, or how much credit we take on how much we can get back those concessions. So that's a lot, a lot, and I'm talking this little bit too plastic, but that's what's basically all about. And finally, what about the end of the Zagreb-Sisak highway? Look, that's where that overpass came in, that's a waste of money if that road doesn't work. Instead of charging the toll, no, it's staring like that, I don't think I see a reason. And in the end, if this was the way it was already thought, so maybe this was the model for us to start that story about the completion of the Peles Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60012	Thank you very much. Next line, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60013	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, you've brought out a lot of thesis but that one thesis was particularly impressed by me, that's number two, so no less MPs have applied for the debate and not mentioned today, no standard words used for the budget are social and developmental, not even from the position. So it's obviously neither social nor developmental, but it's simply one stagnant budget with the expansion of deficits and holes in the deficit and so on. But you didn't argue with that long thesis, which is why so few MPs came forward today to discuss it. Well, they are aware that in fact a change in the debate can't be done, that hardly any of the proposals, suggestion will be accepted, and especially tomorrow when it is, the day after tomorrow, pardon adoption or a clear failure to adopt an amendment that might try to change something, change it in the budget itself. That's why there aren't many MPs in this debate. You also said that some roads by building highways belonged to counties that I can't support. But you're wrong, and I used to talk here when you were the minister, saying that in some parts of the road, those roads remained state roads. For example, we know the D1 road. but in Slavonia by building A3 highway no road that earlier was declared a state road, but belonged to the County of Brod-Posavia, Vukovar-Srijem, etc. So we weren't all equal for your government either. Slavonia was also, in that case, in some ways, cut off.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60014	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60015	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Grubisic, I don't think anyone who's going to be fair enough to be satisfied has been born yet. But let's say so. But I remember all these discussions. That's why I said it was always sort of at 8:00 a.m. the presidents of the HDZ and SDP clubs agreed to give up one and the other odds, yes. But I also remember the hearing at half two, two in the morning. But this, if no one had said it wasn't social and it wasn't developed, it's the best way to talk about the budget. But I'm saying we don't want to talk about it. However, it is likely, but it is early to prejudge it will never be submitted any minor amendments. Why? Because when a man simply looks at the budget then it's our moral right to say take this, give it to this. Because if you take that, he won't be able to live. So it's something that it is. As for Croatian roads and Croatian highways, frankly speaking if Croatian roads receive a billion and 760 million, if many of the roads that were previously in their management have fallen under the authority of local and regional self-government units, then it would be good to see and comb this building plan or enhanced maintenance... or as they're not already called Croatian Roads, let's see by which criteria it's patched up roads. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 'Cause look, no matter how much the Sisak County boasts, it's sucking-moslavina for this. But I highly doubt that Sisak-Moslavina County has received something more significant than Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60016	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60017	So, dear colleague, I think you've given yourself an answer to the question why there's no big debate. Because we're where we are, that's what you said, and I think most of the colleagues are clear, and including you, they said that basically in this budget, and there's no big space. What is important, which I would like to stress that some 6 billion space is absolutely secured for capital investments. What you also said was what this government did in terms of investment. So when we talk about investment itself, the Investment and Competitiveness Agency has solved 9 investment projects totaling 450m euros for the employment of 1600 people. Another 21 investment projects are under way, worth 1.24 billion euros, which should employ 2900 euros and are under way, under way, to produce an UPU or DPU 31 project worth 4 billion 886m euros. With the Strategic Investment Act, I believe we'll speed it up. So, this government clearly, specifically here, I tried to literally show you the fact of efficiency with numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60018	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60019	Well, colleague Djurkovic, if that's all true what you said, then we'll have a treasure next year. Here's our economic growth of three, four percent, here's our full budget, and I don't think my colleague Linic should be worried at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60020	Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60021	Comrade Shuker, you said this budget was neither social nor developmental. But also this budget counts on support and social and political support precisely because of one philosophy and political behaviour of the ruling government that simply goes on to reduce and pay and layoffs and bankruptcy, and for that it does not take responsibility. It calls for responsibility as a basic category, but it is simply intellectually poor and contradictory because the guilty theory shifts responsibility to the previous government or previous government. On the other hand, this crime is criminalized, or not, by not even agreeing to one thesis, or the fact that all governments had other priorities because they were simply forced to do other things. If they got rid of highways, they couldn't get rid of railroads or anything else. And with the notion that all thieves, criminals, corruption is simply causing political damage because it is not said whether it was 5%, 50% or 95% and who will then invest in such a corrupt country as the government and the ruling coalition describe the existing situation. The question, therefore, is what is well said trust, and this trust is something with such an act without insight into the actual state, without the willingness to agree to agree on the factography and the fact that there will simply be no trust or exit from the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60022	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60023	Well, Comrade Tudjman, I agree with you. With a way of collective responsibility, however, unfair things have a name and a last name. And never a collective can be blamed no matter what it is, so I speak collectively, for insubordination, dishonesty, etc. However, this uncritical bickering of ours, but I say everyone's yard is probably going to have a bag, so depending on who it's going to be, we're paying tribute to the outside. I'll never forget when I won the World Bank Award then the Bulgarian prime minister told me not to let a colleague, we were then in the negotiation phase, don't let them declare you thieves because you'll be all thieving and you'll be lobbying. This is unfortunately happening in Croatia. Whoever was in executive power, counterpart Linic knows this well, every ambassador when he comes always intervenes for one of his companies, etc. It's okay, but the same thing in Croatia is declared a thief. Therefore, thieving is a thief, no political party is a thieving party, dishonest people are dishonest people. And these are the facts, and what the minister was saying, I think that the judiciary was doing its things right, that it wasn't that we had 40,000 companies that only had one founder, and the rest were settled with a social contract, and then when the OIB came, then there was a panic that all these companies had to register so that all the founders probably wouldn't have 40,000 blocked companies and probably wouldn't have 40 billion so blocked funds. That's our truth, and that's our fact, and there's all of them, both of them, and there's both thirds and fourths. But the common denominator is unfair behavior and we all have to fight it. This way, we single-handedly label ourselves in a position where we need someone to stick something on us and punish us, then they'll stick it to us without any argument, and we'll all pay very expensively.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60024	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60025	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A fellow Shuker is said to be suffering from emotions, so you've been commenting on what's ahead of us in the state budget, but you've also said why there won't be an amendment because it's not moral to take someone because you don't actually have anyone to take. However, on the other hand, I will refer only to something that has not been said today, and for example that the Ministry of Culture has a historically low budget and that from what is shown to us from the budget relating to the part of the Ministry of Culture next year for the only agency that we have in Croatia, the funds are being reduced, and the projections in 2015 and 2016 actually show that HINA will no longer be financed, or if we translate it into a simple language HINA will obviously be abolished. In order not to be immoral, what I'm about to talk about might still need to look at some other figures, so I would say, given that according to the agreement signed by HINA every year under the HINA Act with the Ministry of Culture 12 million kuna plus VAT is the lowest level HINA can get, for example, I suggest that it be taken from the items of the Privatisation Service of the HPB 8 million and 700 that are scheduled for next year or also for Privatisation Advisors Croatia Insurance. This year they received almost 30 million kuna, and next year these same advisors will receive 24 million 500 thousand kuna. I think it would be much more moral to keep the only information agency so HINA alive, give her a chance because I hope that in the event of HINA's capture of TANJUG, we will not be covered by news from Croatia. I beg you in the name of reason not to allow it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60026	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60027	That fellow Glavak, given that we at HDZ are against these privatisations, is a logical thing to tell you that I agree with the way the funds are cut. But it's very interesting that we've paid so many consultants, but I think we've paid so many consultants more because we have tomorrow's cover, and we can say someone said it costs so much and so much, and eventually someone doesn't bear responsibility and tomorrow takes things out of context, and anything can stick to people who are in power. I'll say it here openly. And the logical thing that the government did, is just asking the question, given that for the HPB there was one deep recording from 2 or 3 years ago that the EBRD was doing, and since it's clear with Croatia that HANFA has a complete review of the situation, I don't think it should have taken some consulting houses and subordinated 30 million kunas to them than that it could have been done far easier. But I'm saying, I understand the government because the logical thing is that no one wants to take responsibility to tell tomorrow that someone sold someone something 20 or 30 million cheaper. They just have paper, so whatever happens happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60028	Ivo Jelusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60029	You were talking about how nobody mentioned this budget was socially developed. It's probably like that, I wasn't listening, but at least I didn't hear anyone say it either. We didn't say that because it's an entrenched flossula. And the floscules are used and spoken to by those who have no concrete data, and we have concrete data. Why talk about flossules, why say it's developed when we're providing concrete data? If you leave 5 billion kunas to the economy, then you don't have to use the flossulas and say how we're directed differently, I guess everyone sees it. So that's why we're not talking about floscules. When we talk about the investor and their attraction, so I think that this is the common goal of all of us, at least it should be, that we are all in the interest that this Croatia is developing and that investors come, that they invest, that we have economic growth rates. That this is both the SDP and HDZ. However, from some discussions and indigestion sometimes I feel that it is not even in the interest. Of course, it requires creating a good social climate, a positive climate. And it's not a nice climate, I agree, when it's said that the country is corrupt, that there are thieves' parties, I agree. But we're not saying that this country is corrupt, we're saying that it was corrupt, and that's true. At the end of the day, there are also powerful court rulings now, so the president of the HDZ government is convicted and that's true and we can't get away from it, we can't hide it, the whole world knows it. So, unfortunately, she was corrupt, no longer, and she won't be at least while we're in power. It's not nice to talk about a party being a thief, I agree, and it's not nice to have a party being a thief, but if the court finds that a party was stealing, she'll take public money and he'll say it's a thief's regret, then she'll be a thief. For the time being, that court has not said it to anyone, but unfortunately your party against her is in the process of such an accusation that it will be proven we do not know it but if it happens unfortunately... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60030	Thank you very much, let's not prejudge what we don't know. The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60031	A colleague Jelusic, this is a standard story of yours because you simply don't know how to say anything, your debate and replica is flossula, but there will come a time when the Croatian public and former members of the communist alliance will ask where the money from their property that SDP was so heartily selling. It'll be very interesting, look at some things. But I said it was done by people, I'll never say for the SDP or any political party what you just said. But it doesn't sometimes matter who says it, and about many things, colleagues Jelusic, when it comes to you, could say a lot because in the city of Zagreb you took part in everything and everything, unfortunately and the pride of Croatia's basketball, Cibona came to the fat, fat minuses during your term. You've thrown her on her knees and no one can get her out alive.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60032	Igor Radjenović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60033	Thank you, colleague Zgrebec, so here I thought we were going a little better, fellow Shucker is now... I don't know why you're interested in former property of communist members. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wasn't either, maybe you were a colleague of Jelusic's, probably the same thing, but we leave that history behind. You also said about history that no one said this budget was developed and social, so here's what I'm going to say. I think it's developed and social under the given circumstances. I was also told by my colleague Jelusic for a good portion of the replica, developed precisely because of this situation that five billion kunas are ready and we together as the ruling majority accept that in these difficult circumstances we give up the income levels and we respect them in the development and it is social, I will quote to you only part of President Milanovic's speech here this morning, "It will never question the level of social rights of the most exposed categories of our citizens, there will never be a question of payouts of working pensions, there will never be a question of invalidity pensions and benefits because we will never be at risk of a high level of health care, there will be a right to free insurance."I skipped a bit, he explained it far better. Therefore, this budget is also social, of course, under the given circumstances in which we now live. What we are calling out for, these are investors, we have also talked about, investors can not only attract themselves to measures of economic policy but also to the overall climate in society, the overall economic climate, the overall climate in the society around which we all carry our own level of responsibility, and we need to see about it. But those investors for whom we cry out are not investors who will buy the Croatian market, that is clear to you, so they are investors who are now entering the EU and there is our main advantage. We're getting a big market and it's actually going to produce a big market here. And with these economic policy measures, we have reduced the labour price not to repeat that everything, the parafiscal burdens we take down, we will take down another 14 words, the tax on investment profits, the best tax in that direction plus the promotion of investment plus strategic investment, therefore investors are welcome to this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60034	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60035	You see, I was saying what you said about my colleague, Stazic, then you'd warn me not to replicate what they said, but it doesn't matter. If you'd listened to my debate, colleagues, then you wouldn't have the need for what you said. But I'm glad that there's a desire in you to say that this budget is social and developmental, at least that someone should say that this doesn't turn out to be something we've done. But counterpart Radjenovic, a number of unemployed, such macroeconomic indicators simply say nothing happened. And now we can convince each other as much as we want anything to happen wouldn't the deficit of the state budget be 18 billion and God forbid it's so big. It's a fact, and we can now convince each other whatever we want, but let's take a fair look at the cost structure of the state budget, and then you'll see how round that budget is and just how much of what needs to be paid and good-bye has simply gone up. And there's nothing more, and even if you inside the club agree, let's just give 500 or 600 million just doubt that the minister could make some sort of redistribution if he doesn't want this to increase the deficit to do so. They're facts, but if it's fair to talk about facts, run away from politics, then some MPs simply want to prove something goes with labels or anything. I've told you a health contribution, okay 2 billion and 800 ok, but let's see where that ends. One good intention, unfortunately, and it ended the way it ended. But you know that trip to hell is filled with good intentions. I wouldn't want it to be with our budget and our economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60036	Minister Slavko Linic, here are the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60037	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Maybe just a comment about reforms, not being made when we look at neither education nor health or social. And in that part, we can't say that we have a balanced expenditure side because it's obvious that reforms would take either lower expenditure or invest in programmes. The government is aware of this and prepared a complete reform programme for 2014. So what it is, the implementation of the reforms should be implemented by the Government in 2014 in order to essentially try to support these quite high expenditures that threaten our deficit in 2015 and have the first effects of reforms. I have remained in debt for the proposal, in which we now share 60 pieces of Croatian highways in a different way. After tomorrow's session, the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to the proposal and the Law on Roads and Railways, which means that the Croatian Government remained on the programme for 2014 which is the implementation of a public tender for the concession of highways for two reasons. From one which is the level of debts that are reaching for the next five years far greater than the revenues of highways and revenues that we achieve from 10 lipes is on the one hand, and on the other hand, the money that is 60 limes we need. No. 1 for part of the debt that will remain on the return highways is 20 June, 20 limes need for development in the Croatian railway, especially the infrastructures and part that we will co-finance in relation to European funds and 20 limes for raising quality and investment in Croatian roads. And in that part, it is certain that funds should be found not only for state roads but also lower levels of food from these 20 limes raises the total amount to 80 limes for the purpose of maintaining road infrastructure standards off the highway. We will discuss this proposal before making a decision on the budget, so I believe that the representatives with their discussions will also be able to demonstrate themselves at the proposed distribution of suggestions where I would possibly go and vice versa, and I would say with this position we agree or disagree with that the finished highways are funded by the one who has the money, and that we turn the other money into what we need, and we need for the Croatian railways and we need for the standard of other road infrastructures off the highway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60038	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60039	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, today only once in the debate is mentioned what Europe is asking us to do, and that is the budget deficit of 3% compared to GDP. This budget, which is now planned for 2014, plans 5% of the budget deficit. I wonder if you are the executive authority, what if in 2014 Europe asks that we reduce that budget to 3% what happens? Rebalance? Slicing? I don't know, I don't know, I'm not even an economic expert, but I have to ask as a representative in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60040	The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60041	After the clubs, I also had a presentation on the income and expenditure side and I said that important investments by the government were to encourage, restructure and strengthen the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. We said it was 4.5 billion, which means it is possible that if the European Commission and European Commission experts estimate that three years as far as we estimate that we could reduce the deficit with the implementation of these reforms if it is assessed that reforms are insufficient, that the effectiveness of these reforms will be insufficient that we will have to touch the revenue side. Therefore, solutions can be different, there remains a question of credibility and a government that simply in these negotiations has to argue that we will actually return the deficit below 3%, but remains an income and expenditure side.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60042	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60043	Mr. Minister, we can disagree on something but I'm just asking you, isn't it logical that you're reducing public debt by 20 or 30 billion kuna to make it an object for the Prime Minister to say in a budget statement? For me, there were no more important things in this budget that he should have said because this other thing is known to everyone. Nothing new today has been said, so the only new thing is what you just said. And look, colleagues and colleagues, if we know that Croatian highways have a billion dollars in revenue, if the Zagreb-Rijeka Motorways concession society has about a billion million, if it's all expensive somewhere around 2,700, 2,800 if the excise tax revenue of these 60 liras is a billion 400, it's 4 billion and 200. For the basic costs of operating cold drive if this would work out a little bit, the restructuring takes perhaps 600, 700 million kuna, for some regular maintenance costs it takes 300 million let's say a billion kuna go. So 3 billion kunas or 2.5 billion kunas remain. With a different credit reprogramme, all this can be solved. But there's something else, and that's why I think we should discuss it here. For example, colleagues from Varazdin can confirm that the stake especially the one on the right on the Zagreb-Varaždin highway is in desperate condition. When you're driving, you jump, as soon as you drive over 90 kilometers like you're on some kind of macadam. Now listen, the concessionaire will take it, now if he doesn't send people there, and the Varazdins will go crazy in a year, in what condition the roads are in. So I'm saying that what you just said is the most important thing and the latest thing about this budget. And if someone thinks that this is not something that should have been discussed in this House of Commons, it's an honor, but let me also consider that we had to discuss it. Because I say Mr. Minister yesterday we were all discussing whoever deals with finance to him in this budget is nothing new. But the thing that solves something that ultimately is also patriotic... remember that the Zagreb-Split highway is talking about Just one more sentence. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I think it deserved the Prime Minister to say something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60044	The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60045	There will be opportunities with these two laws and it's all part of the budget, simply in that schedule maybe a mistake has been made if this law should have been made when we talk about railways and roads before then it would have been clear. It's always the question of whether the finished roads that are left to those who have the resources and money we need and we need the money from the toll, I apologize for the excise duty, for and raising standards on the other roads and we need it for the railroad. We fund when we look at our budget for participation even though 85% we expect to be funding from funds but 15% at 3 billion to what it will cost the entire railway infrastructure or 2 billion euros is an enormous amount. It's not in the budget. We don't want him on credit again. So we have to secure it from our own excise duties. So that's one logic. The other logic is because we really need to talk about the concession contract that's going to be tomorrow. Therefore, whether the calculations are correct, whether the revenues, whether the guarantees of the State for turnover income or the risk of transport are all the quality of the contract that we need to talk about. But it's something we need to understand when we crossed 60% of the public debt, when we entered interest above... As a result, the financing of road debts was a tragedy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because, for a good part, the basic contracts on one road and on another road are set far better than we could refinance them. And at that point, you're looking for other solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60046	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60047	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Ministers, you are announcing reforms in health care that are continuing to imagine how to reduce health costs and how to improve it. So far, practice shows that what has been done has been done by political pressure on current management in both clinical hospitals and county hospitals. If nothing had happened positively, the debt had not been recovered, the resolution managers were set up to report that they had increased within 3 or 4 months, doubled their debt in the county hospitals. They're doing their job because they didn't even bring in the recovery plan, they didn't even bring in a health restructuring plan. They didn't bring anything, but everyone's led to wait for the French report on how hospitals will be rehabilitated and the departments cut down. You announce that you will put in this extraurcing diet, washing and maintenance. I think it would be best for the ministers to first submit to you the resolution managers specific reports as to how much they have made the new debt, how much they have reduced the availability of medical protection and specialist examinations and then to call a tender for doctors to work in the outsourcing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60048	The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60049	Mr. Representative, it has often been mentioned here that the Minister of Finance is the Minister of Health. Why? For the simple reason that the Ministry of Finance has its own co-ordination regarding the rehabilitation, as they are called, councils, rehabilitation councils in hospitals. And yes, the Ministry of Finance is that it won't conclude business this year until we figure out how much higher expenditure than health funds were planned in 2013 and let's see where those reasons are. Let's see what the master plan is, which is over and under which we will try to make a decision on the restructuring of hospitals and departments. Let's also see what these are the effects of separating activities that aren't white staff and the third, to really see how rational business can be. We'll figure it out on this year's budgets and realisations. And what's most fundamental is to calculate the savings effects these projects need to give. If that's not enough, then there's a participation of citizens to co-finance health care. As the government's goal is to make this participation as small as possible, the cuts will be severe. They're gonna be tough. Because we simply think that basic health care should be free after all. Therefore, on this year's budget, this year's data and all the financial data are collected because still the people of the Ministry of Finance are primarily people of numbers, we will simply get the results and answers we need. So, and how much participation will be if we don't get tough enough in reorganization and cuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60050	Comrade Damir Cain is not present, so he loses the right to debate on this point. She's a colleague of Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60051	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here today is about numbers, indicators and trends really said a lot, so here I would rather not mention the things that I think we should do in the next period to make the situation look better in the perspective. By reading the government's explanation of this budget, I have seen that already in the third sentence, we are talking about the challenges that we at the HNS have also been aware of in the preparation of the election programme and from the moment on, the start of the coalition government's work. We emphasized and again show how right we were that the necessary process of fiscal consolidation and the launch of economic growth do not allow wandering in the strategy. Especially at a time when there's a whole series of factors we can't influence like that. economic crisis. The decisions of fiscal consolidation are not easy, large numbers of subjects are affected, but once they are made they are in the implementation of relatively simple and the risks of the absence of realisation actually do not exist. And, of course, there's an expected public support because it recognizes the mess of the gray economy. And the positive impact of these precisely measures is not questioned, but unfortunately the unquestionable danger of such measures and decisions is when economic growth is lacking. That second part of the Croatian economy, as it has shown very clearly, is far more demanding. This is particularly emphasized if... tax burdens have an inevitable tendency to penetrate even the necessary assets that we need to earn or which have been achieved, but are not used for growth such as. income from assets. Here I am talking, of course, about public companies that had to invest their assets of about 1.7 billion kuna in... and economically justified projects, because it was also a basic concept of the government's economic programme, public investment. It's not good that at certain times we've had some wandering. At the beginning of the term of office, the Ministry of Economy set out a very clear concept of project implementation in the public sector. The second year we talked a lot about private investment, so that in this at least budget reasoning we would return to public investment because it is very clear that public investments are those investments that we can influence. We cannot influence private ones, but we can for them and of course we have to create conditions, and create conditions for private investment means, above all, to provide a positive business environment, which is a basic assumption, there have been a lot of words here today. In this respect, it is essential to ensure economic and primary tax stability because every potential investor as one of the most important things that will be checked before the start of any investment is the tax system and therefore, of course, the constant mention of new taxes is not good in this regard. If we decide to introduce a tax, or consider it to be a good time, it is necessary to prepare for it and to implement it. Otherwise, we only introduce unnecessary uncertainty and instability into the system. Furthermore, what is in no way good at creating a favourable investment climate and transferring responsibility for non-investment to private entrepreneurs and generally creating a bad atmosphere around private investment. One very worrying figure in this regard is the EURO Flash survey, according to which as many as 70% of our citizens have a negative attitude towards entrepreneurs and we are out of 54 countries in the last 54th place. The negative experience of large and serious investors here in Croatia, from Rockwool, Ikea, to the case of Srdj, whose examples certainly do not invite investors to Croatia. So there is a lot of work to be done here, it must be said, of course, that this government has done one, made one big move, and these are already mentioned today by the Strategic Investments Act, the Law on the Promotion of the Investment Environment, the Law on Legalisation, but of course it needs to move even faster, even more decisively forward with the implementation of reforms because the reforms in the judiciary and education and administration, the administration, are always directly or indirectly linked to the economy. But all that I have stated and what I should do is unfortunately not going fast enough, and that is why I repeat that we need to start investments and projects that we decide on on our own and on whose dynamics we can influence. These are energy projects, infrastructure projects and railway projects, water-building projects and these are all economically sustainable projects that can also be supported by EU funds and private capital. Because if we set up the concept in the first year of the term of office, if we created the conditions and prepared the projects, those projects should have been implemented. In the second year of office we failed to do so, for various reasons the projects have slowed down but now in the third year of office I think there must be no apology. Politics is not always, but executive power is a very measurable category, behind it always remains numbers and therefore it should be very clear what investments are, it would be good to be those already prepared, who are the people who will be responsible for their organisation and who are the deadlines. I would just like to remind you that in the first year of this government's mandate, we had quarterly reports on the implementation of investment plans for public enterprises. In this way both productivity and business and investment status could be very clearly measured and monitored. I would really suggest that this practice be reintroduced. And what I would especially like to stress is that this government must also make decisions and provide in the budget for funding the participation of 15% of local self-government units for EU funds because we know that 95% of all EU funds are targeted regionally, not on state funding, and we know that our cities and municipalities do not have financial powers for this, and of course we cannot afford to lose any such project because, as we all know, the funds are our only serious chance for growth and development, and this is particularly relevant to local communities. I think at this point it's extremely important to recognize it as a space for growth and we must make the most of it, of course. I believe that the government will recognize and give opportunities to local units to take advantage of their European chances, thus making the funds invested through our tax system... largely return to the state budget. And finally, what should be done and, of course, under the urgency of having half the mandate is to launch a therefore announced and prepared cycle of public investment with clear projects, with clear responsibilities and clear deadlines, establish tax stability, provide a favourable business environment to encourage and attract private investment. These are measures that must ensure economic growth which is certainly and very clearly the only solution to getting out of this situation because this government certainly knows and can do better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60052	Thank you very much. We're moving on to replicas. First Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60053	Thank you very much. Comrade Martincevic, let me only list you in a row, and you will remember why I list it for you, so Qatar, Indonesia, Azerbaijan, Great Britain, France and the latest China. All these are investors and countries with investors who should have been potential to come to Croatia to help. Russia was rejected as an investor by your former president's decision, so the southern flow went to Serbia and part two. The railway also bypasses Croatia, but it also bypasses Serbia, so maybe we are here for a little while, they won't be so bitter when they're already bypassing Croatia, so they're bypassing Serbia. It goes to Romania and Bulgaria for Istanbul, Sofia and Asia Minor. So, the Hamburg Strip - Istanbul. You said that such investments are very important personnel. I know that your staff from your party, therefore from the CNS, was headed by the Croatian electricity industry. We know well how it all came together and ended up not being as rude as some people who mentioned that the light bulb didn't even know how to change. In Đura Djakovic, your frame, a company that is very tight in state ownership, is happening the same way. In health care you place party officials on the head, not you, but your coalition or those who are abolized for hospital directors, rehabilitately. There are some of them. They both love the hospital and Croatia so much. So what you said as a tract nicely and wished for investment and all that, that's very nice. I agree with that, too. But the way you do it isn't good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60054	Replication response, Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60055	Here's the first one right away. In fact, the former first Deputy Prime Minister wanted to save what was no longer saved and reroute the southern flow to go through Croatia. However, this was routed to other directions during the HDZ government. I'm afraid that's more of a fixer-upper. As for the visit to Katru, China, etc. That's exactly what I was talking about, and I'm glad you confirmed my words. Namely, foreign and private investors need to fight and should be stimulated to come, to invest here. However, I have made it very clear here and explicitly said that we must go with the investments that we are deciding on ourselves, which are investments in the public sector. The investments and projects that were prepared in the first year of the government's mandate, which were launched and I think it's time for this government to realise them. I called on it, and I think it's something we're affecting ourselves and what we can do on our own. And yet we hope for foreign investors as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60056	Another replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60057	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Martincevic, you have well claimed that public investments should be much more active and more involved in the development of the Republic of Croatia. The achievement of European standards through water supply, draining, through energy efficiency certainly in positions, we see that it is not enough for projects that have already been completed and put into operation. Energy efficiency has a mass of opportunities that would certainly allow Croatia to gain. The most foreign investors I hear are information that they want to invest in both solar and thermal energy, which they want in systems that are on those waste things to build heat and electricity. However, by reducing the value given for the produced kilowatts of such currents, some must have given up. They don't have enough money to make that kind of investment. I'm particularly worried that some of the districts have stopped investment and are standing. There's no pay all year. We're talking, the minister is also talking to the Prime Minister about introducing order. The order must first be from state ministries or public companies that pay. If they do not stop and those who have received works, stop and co-operatives, they will fail all chain after each other if there is no timely payment and if there is no means to continue the construction and water supply and disposal and irrigation in the next budget. That's what agriculture means. If there are no incentives for energy efficiency and projects, then there is neither progress nor development.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60058	The replica matches Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60059	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60060	Turn on the microphone, please, so we can all hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60061	That you agreed with me. So, I was saying here that companies, public companies, so their... 1.7 million kunas had to invest in physical, therefore economically justified projects, and that's actually the whole idea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there are these funds just need to be invested in physical projects. It was the whole idea and the whole concept of this government, and I'm glad, so in this draft budget we're going back to the system of public investment. And as far as energy efficiency projects are concerned, that's the model that this government has launched, that's the model that this government has given a boost to. In some cases, such as solar plants are reduced and it is good that they are reduced, because extra profits have been generated in the solar system, and now at the heart of that, there will be fewer profits, but a much larger number of people who are interested in it have reported. So that was a good decision by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60062	And the last replica, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60063	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So when we talk about public investment and they're announced, there weren't any, so now we're bringing them back like that, it's not a whole game. It's pure reality, intent and desire to realize the announced projects by the time you open the closet, and then you don't even find any skeletons that fall out, but you find nothing. So you don't have any projects. In order to do quality, major projects including projects that will be related to EU funds must be prepared. Thus, at this point, the government has prepared projects that can be realised independently by public companies to withdraw funds from EU funds. And it is now normal and natural not only will we insist on going more private sector or public sector, because the public sector always has a particular need when this need is defined by what you yourself have said to benefit and economic sustainability, because this economic sustainability essentially indicates that this project is related to development. Of course, public investment itself is dragging along the private sector, which as co-operatives work for the public sector in the realisation of these projects. And in 2013 is the year in which we end a package of not only tax laws that we had quite, but a package of laws to support the economy, to ensure conditions of competitiveness for the economy, to speed up procedures and to skip bureaucratic barriers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60064	We're continuing an individual debate. It's time to pay attention to the Vesna Railway.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60065	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, and here in these two days we've heard quite a lot of objections, criticism at the expense of us who do. in the account of the ruling who have drawn up a budget like, of course, the rebalancing, but that here today all of us are given to draw up a budget I am convinced that three times bigger would have to be than it is now, I just don't know where the funding source would be. Because every parliamentary representative I assume is acting in power and in local self-government, I'm convinced he's seen what's in the budget for my neighborhood, for my place, for my entire region. But unfortunately, it was such a time when someone could be given something and until they looked at how to put together a real budget like this. And indeed, the ministers at the head of the Ministry of Finance have not been easy for you to put together a budget like Mr. Shucker's parliamentary representative said, as there is no story of developmental social. Mantras were because every parliamentary representative who is responsible knows that in these difficult times there cannot be the kind of development that we would like in the percentage we would like to put together with our wishes. What is important is to say here and repeat what this government has really done to encourage the economy that in the next period I am convinced that we will achieve a growth of 1.3% of GDP and that our wishes will be realized in all those investments that this government has decided on, which is energy, are railways and this is a series of development projects and programmes that will be achieved in our and local communities. Someone said we weren't prepared enough. I will say that local communities are prepared enough to withdraw money from the EU and can do so. The projects that have been completed I am sure that already in 2014 at the end of 2014 will produce results. Of course, all the things we've done so far, these tax reliefs, from everything that's been mentioned many times, but it should be emphasized that because of what we've done, we believe in this budget that we're going to achieve. Unfortunately, if the crisis is to increase, we have a solution for that. What else is important to say about the budget? The reliefs we have given and which we are giving to the economy I am convinced will be used in the future. We said small entrepreneurs, we increased the threshold of entering the VAT system from 80 to 230 thousand. It has been said that 26 700 entrepreneurs have emerged from the VAT system. We've heard a lot of criticism here on pre-war deals. The objective of the pre-fashion settlements is to keep jobs. And like this, you keep complaining about how unemployed he is, we're aware of that, yeah, he's a lot of unemployed. But what are the reasons for unemployment? It is also important to mention the reforms of future reforms that are the basis for this budget and what to say about them now? Any reform to be implemented as e.g. In the master's plan of hospitals, I'll talk about the environment from which I come, first the Lord will rebel from the opposition and will say how now three hospitals, Varazdinska, Koprivnička and Čakovecka, are going to be done in which hospital. But gentlemen, reforms must be made. Resuscitation of hospitals is one thing, and by master plan, obviously there will be changes and they have to be organised differently. What you just said about outsourcing from certain activities that are not basic activities is already done by many companies outside, as well as some companies in Croatia. Because what is not their basic activity, but these people will not remain unemployed but will be employed by these companies. It's also important to mention tax administration reform, it's going to be on our parliamentary representatives right now, so how did you do that, so why did you let the centers be somewhere else, not in our town? Some things have to be done. And these are the reforms that we expect to see this kind of growth that we've been planning here. Also, the courts, the draft Regional Development Act, have already been called. And it's gonna have to be done. All that is now in the plan, just before it was said that there will be a reform in the Ministry of Education that we know has to come, but every reform that is being launched and that we consider to be good, not immediately but in some future period, means 2014 end, 2015 we are already welcomed at negative and constantly objecting to us, and on the other hand we are complaining that we have done nothing. We have done much, not enough for the development of such Croatia as we have today, and I will not say inherited but it is also important to note that every budget is given, must be within the legal frameworks and is not since that year. Of course, we have listed a lot of things that have been going on since the previous years how much interest is due and I am convinced of how we have started working in these two years of our mandate that we will succeed in achieving the many reforms that we have outlined and that will make the results easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60066	We move to replicas, first Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60067	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, you said we heard various criticisms about the budget. I have to admit, I haven't heard a lot of criticism about the budget. I've heard more criticism about government policy, which is perfectly normal in this assembly. And I've heard that support as quickly as possible with reforms if I'm not mistaken. As for criticism over the deficits, however, all agreed that the budget was so budgeted that it could not be different and that the obligations created had to be paid. Therefore, the least possible criticisms possible for one budget were heard and as far as normal positions are concerned, it is clear that they have to criticise the government and that they have no confidence because they did not choose it in the area, but we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60068	Replication response, Vesna Railway.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60069	Well, my colleague Gjurkovic, of course the criticism came because it was immediately said at the beginning that it was a wish list that we did and indeed it was obvious that the parliamentary representatives are aware of the situation in which we are and of course that and as the Assembly representative says there is no heart to say what to cut and who to take and who to whom to be, because that is the reality of ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60070	Second replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60071	Thank you very much. The speaker is not on. So with these classes that exist sailing, there's a class of optimists. Indeed, I said that you are also optimistic when you say that you believe in this government, in its work and in the results. You also believed in 2012 when this budget was passed and yesterday we had a rebalance with an increase in deficits. So you believed, and in 2011, when you came to power, we had what we are, and what is now the state you know yourself. You say that the investments that this government has concentrated primarily on Croatian railways and energy, which are projects from energy, were achieved when the investment was so concentrated on this and what projects in Croatia about the railway when we know that the speed of Croatian trains on Croatian railways is 40 km per hour, when it travels from Slavonski Brod to Zagreb for 4 hours. When the debate on the river Zagreb railway lasted two years. One month you've been working track, one month against etc., until today, and it really is necessary, a full profit line so Rijeka-Zagreb, it's a blood vessel to tell Croatia, we are for such a project. But you've been thinking about it for a long, long time. You've been thinking for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60072	Replication response, Vesna Railway.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60073	So that's why we're investing in the railways because you yourself said how many hours it takes and I'm sure the railroad will go, and the rail that is the corridor of the Rijeka-Budapest railway and the second track that is drawn and that will go until 2018, I think the realization of the second track will be achieved. And in the government, of course, I still believe.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60074	Last line, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60075	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you spoke about the restructuring and reforms in health care and the hospital system, first of all you need to know how it came to be that the power managers and the board of directors were introduced, by reducing the decentralised resources to all the county hospitals, by reducing the value of the points, by putting non-natural pressure on the hospital administrations, are forced to introduce resolution managers who have increased and doubled the debt. That's the truth I'm talking about. A 2% reduction in health contributions did not contribute to any relief to the economy because the economy is collapse, we see it from all indicators. 3.4 billion re-uses of health funds for other purposes, which is illegal, have also impoverished health care. In this respect, nothing concrete happened. Thought you'd... To reduce costs is a delusion, is a fraud, only to increase. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No state... companies are not cheaper than their own staff who work at the lowest labour prices in these hospitals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Take the lists, as much as that cleaning lady or the laundry lady over there or the cooker has as much salary in gross and as much as in minimum, you will see that there is no way or reason for saving, the Sanitation Councils have not done their job but have increased their debts. I'm afraid that the collapse of health care and what the minister said is that, back these 2% and now we should increase the health contribution by 2% in order to repair this damage that has occurred in this space.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60076	Replication response, Vesna Railway.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60077	Well, I don't think you're right and the health care isn't in the collapse, that it wants to show that it's in the collapse, and I'm sure in the future that reforms will bring improvement, and I'm sure the patients have nothing better to do with this smaller contribution than they've had before.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60078	My colleague, Mirela Holly, has now welcomed her line of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60079	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the presentation on the 2014 State Budget proposal, I would like to say that I will support the proposal. In this proposal, I recognise several positive changes compared to the current proposals for the budget, and one of them is the structure of the state budget’s reasoning, or its text part, which is significantly more exhaustive and concrete, more project-oriented than it was in previous years. In that change I see the beginning of the turn of the state budget structure itself according to the Swedish model which I have already spoken of on several occasions in previous years and this year at the meetings of the Assembly Committees. Why do I find this change positive? Because this structure of the budget enables us to manage more easily in the budget with representatives and MPs, as well as citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who need to have quality information on the content of the budget of the core strategic or better said planning document of the state and government in the coming year. I believe that this increases the transparency of the government's work, and this is extremely important for the overall democratisation of society and to curb corruption. Of course, there is still plenty of room to improve, primarily in terms of concreteising planned project and programme reforms in terms of identifying measurable targets towards concrete programmes and projects. Although the text part of the budget of projects and programmes lacks their clear definition in terms of realisation dynamics and concrete numbers in financial, time, human and implementation terms. I hope that the commitment of the Government and the Ministry of Finance to develop such a structure of the budget and in the future so that at the end of the year we can be completely transparent towards the users of the budget but also to the extra budget users, we can see how successful they were in the realization of the projects and programmes drawn up. This budget justification format is, in my opinion, something too large, prescriptive but also insufficiently concrete in the measurement of the objectives outlined and will still need to be corrected in that part. The other extremely positive side of this proposal of the state budget is that I consider it a visible commitment from the government to take on so much of the necessary public administration reform. I also talked about it when I was a member of the government and when I came out of the government because I am deeply convinced, and I am based on a whole series of experiences of other largely developed European and world states that it is just good, quality, fast, honest and effective public administration that solves the matters of its citizens according to precise, precise procedures in optimal short-term, transparent, high-quality and impartial key to the success of developed countries. I am convinced that Croatia is the most different from these developed countries in the public administration, which, unfortunately, is not an efficient service for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia at the end of 2013. The Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot influence or alter circumstances in many areas. Croatia cannot affect the global not excessively good economic situation but it can and must affect what is in its direct jurisdiction, which is the quality of public administration. In that sense, the government has absolutely no alibi for inaction. Finally, the importance of public administration reform has also been recognised by the EU in the coming year, if I understand the years of public administration throughout the EU well. So a great year for the Croatian government to engage in this extremely important reform. This reform is crucial without a quality public administration we will not be able to realise any other structural reform. The reform of public administration depends on the success of economic reforms, the success of health reform, the success of pension and any other reform. Quality public administrations are namely an instrument for the implementation of any government and social reform, which is why I am holding the figures to the government to be successful in this reform. I am deeply convinced that unless the government is successful in any other reform but for its term of office, it successfully initiates and reverses public administration reform that it will be remembered as a successful government in history. Unfortunately, no strategic investment law will help us to start our economy unless we reform public administration. Now I'm going to look at a few specific details in the budget. In his opening speech, the prime minister stressed that the government relieved the economy and citizens by abolishing or reducing a whole series of parafiscal duties. However, I am thinking first of all of the Fund for the Protection of Environment and Energy Efficiency and Croatian Water, as we see in 2014 and next year, of increasing the income of these institutions, which are largely filled with parafiscal burdens paid by natural and legal persons and companies. This would not be so controversial if the fund and Croatian water were to do quality work for which they exist. The Fund is an extremely important financial instrument for environmental policy, which has been being drawn for years, and unfortunately today, tails of different affairs and financial malfeasances are being drawn, so I remind you that the purpose of the fund is not to increase its revenues year by year because this means that the environmental protection standard has not improved despite the generous funds that the citizens of the company are pumping into the fund. The exact opposite of the success of the fund should be measured by its constant reduction in revenues because this means that Croatia has risen in respect of environmental standards. A similar situation, unfortunately, with Croatian waters. I will refer to the nature protection policy segment in the descriptive part of this budget, which can be read "The current model of governance of national parks and parks of nature does not ensure their effective conservation and use, the uncontrollable and unequal strengthening of individual public parks and nature parks has led to a divergence in the management and management policies of these areas, and in the coming period, the integration of public institutions of national parks and nature parks will be strengthened in order to simplify management and financing, and will allow easier common access to EU funds and others. Furthermore, the construction and arrangement of the infrastructure for visitors will contribute to effective and effective conservation and optimal use of protected areas and areas of the ecological network. The above general objective comes from the Strategy and Action Plan for the Protection of Biological and Regional Varieties of November 2008 and is in line with the priorities of nature protection defined in the draft programming documents for the period 2014 to 2020." That's the end of the quote. I stress that these problems are also the easiest, most efficient and most transparent solution through the reform of the system through the National Park Agency, so I do not understand why the Government of the Republic of Croatia is still late and difficult with this reform. I will look back on the extremely large problem of mine contamination, which Croatia does not solve in a sufficiently efficient way. It is a matter of the safety of Croatian citizens but also of our tourists, and it is of the Croatian state's priority that the government speeds up rather than slows down the solution to this problem. I would like to remind you that Plan 21 provides for an increase in demining financial resources on the basis of the Kukurik coalition's mandate to manage the state. Unfortunately, the implementation of the national mine action programme is half as planned. From 2009 to today, the difference in funds to implement the national programme from the funds secured for the implementation of the same amount is 760 million kuna. The resulting annual realisation of the return of mine suspected areas to the community is 30km square while according to existing available capacities, the realization is possible to raise to a level of 50 to 55km square year. Currently in the Republic of Croatia, mine suspected space is 639 kilometers square, stretches in 12 counties and 93 cities and municipalities and is asked for a strategic goal that has been defined and taken over by international commitments that is the Ottova Convention, which is Croatia without mines in 2019. Finally, the budget envisions an increase in funds to finance the Catholic Church by 1% compared to the previous year. I don't think such an increase makes sense because religious institutions need to share the fate of the state and share in the same amount of savings. A parallel reduction in funds for the Ombudsman's office is likely to negatively affect the protection of human rights in Croatia, and it is possible to result in negative outcomes of court proceedings at the European Court of Human Rights, which, apart from financial damage, are a major damage to Croatia's reputation. I therefore call on the Government to reduce funds for the Catholic Church by its amendment in a rather small part and to reroute those funds for the needs of the attorney general's office. I'm sure the Catholic Church wouldn't mind that because I read at the end of the media that the Church didn't even ask for a budget increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60080	We have a bonded replica of Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60081	Thank you very much. My colleague Holly, on the basis of a discount of 18.5 million kuna in 2010, the HDSSB Club, i.e. So here I am personally getting an amendment from former Minister Shuker and the government of HDZ 9 million kuna for schools in Slavonski Brod and thanks to the discharge of the church that was. And Mr. Cain 9.5 million kuna. So, a total of 18.5 million kuna were fired at the time Mr. Marin Srakic was modeling the archbishop, president of the Croatian Bishop's Conference. But I didn't want to talk about it, but you pulled me out at the end of this debate of yours. It's about demining. So, you said the Croatian mine action plan was until 2019. However, given the 639 km square squares that are not demining, the mini-suspecting areas at this rate that we are going to go at 30 km per year will be demined in 2034, so 15 years late. Furthermore, you also said that you also commended in your opening report, in the introduction of your debate with this government and everything else and on one to tell the anti-corruption programme. Look, the other day, we adopted the Public Procurement Act, here in the Croatian Parliament, which allows restrictions on public procurement of materials and services from 200 to 500 thousand kuna. Doesn't it at least smell like a suspicion that corrupt acts can happen out of it? And as for the health care you said one word about, I must tell you that it is in health care with corruption and nepotism that prevailed. Namely, the recovery directors who were placed in hospitals were laid down under the party directive by a decree. Here's an example of the hospital in Slavonski Brod and Novi Gradišca where the directive put a man in a new Gradiška who never managed anything. [[Intruder: Come on, thank you very much. The time has passed long ago.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60082	The replica matches Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60083	Dear colleague, here I am glad that the Church has shown some social responsibility so that it has given up some of its income for the benefit of schools. I hope that the Church would gladly give up both parts of its revenue or funds from the budget and for the purposes of the Office of the Attorney General, because the Church must also care about respecting human rights in the Republic of Croatia. The second thing, as regards demining, is that I am concerned that we will not demining Croatia until the scheduled year 2019 to the government to consider increasing the funding amount for the Croatian Mine Action Centre in order to achieve this goal if not until 2019. I'm afraid with this dynamic, we're not gonna make it. And in the end, I don't think you've listened very closely to me, I commended that the government has decided on more of this stronger descriptive part of the budget and on a project basis, and I think it's very important because citizens can read the budget in a much easier way than when it's just in the tables. Because let's all be realistic when you have a budget broken by different items in the tables very hard to see the overall structure according to the programs and projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60084	We're continuing an individual debate. It's time for Ivanka Roksandić to be respected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60085	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister. So here's kind of like in 24 hours we're talking about the same subject again, and that's about education. However, even yesterday when we talked about rebalancing, I will not say anything new because the budget is almost the same as this year and there are no new items. And I'm going to have to warn you about some of the things we warned about in 2012 and about the 2013 budget, and also about the rebalancing we warned about yesterday. However, Deputy Minister, I find it very difficult to tell you, as well as Minister Linic, because they are not the creators of this budget. The creators of this budget sit in one other ministry, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and unfortunately you just copy their figures. It's clear to me, what my colleague Schucker said, speaking to the finance minister, it's the hardest thing to really be a finance minister because you have to put up with everything that others want, and obviously, in the Ministry of Science and Education, for the third year when this budget is being adopted, there's no need for education at all, and I'm going to tell you why and how. We made last year's budget for this year that we won't have enough money for education and it proved true. The money is missing for wages, but not for colleagues and colleagues, yesterday I pointed out that again, for the new employment of professional associates, scientific recruits, but for the insurance of those employees who are now in schools, those who are from before. However, we did not plan enough money. I'm warning you, Deputy Minister, I can see you're not listening to me, so I'm sorry that in the 2014 budget you won't have enough money to pay again, and I'll show you why. In 2012, we ended up with 12 billion and 64 million and this year we had to add about 560 million kuna to the rebalancing process just for wages and we did it yesterday, or we'll probably vote on Friday. This year. In 2014, we start with a plan of 12 billion 26 million 314 thousand 578 kunas, so at the beginning of less than last year, and now we have to add to the budget. I know that 80% of this budget for education and science is almost spent on wages, but I also know that we have all sworn here, colleagues and colleagues, that we will really stand up and the minister said several times, we will not, and today in the opening speech President Milanovic said we will not cancel free schooling. We didn't cancel free schooling, what I told you yesterday, we threatened regular schooling with a budget like this. I know it's hard to stretch that money, but look you said and yesterday the minister told me in response that he expects a lot to be included here in some way because the founder, some cities and counties are the founders of primary schools and high school counties, so they expect them to get involved in there covering some costs. I have to tell you, we've not had enough of what we've done in this year, we've introduced e-mails and journals, e-mails, and we haven't kept the basic standard. This is commendable, but I expect that we will invest more in taking care of our children, so I must tell you that you have not increased any kuna in this budget for the following year already in decentralised funds. In my county on Monday, we were making a budget, we had to put a million kunas into the proposal for a public needs programme, I'll read to you, funds intended to increase energy costs for schools due to the constant increase in energy prices, we can no longer cover the costs of energy from decentralised functions. It is also an explanation for the transport of pupils of primary and secondary schools, so from those decentralised functions my Sisak-Moslavina County from its own incomes must allocate another 3 million and 900 thousand kuna in order to survive schools in order to maintain themselves at all. I'll tell you one more thing, if you look at those programming items that she was talking about today and now colleague Holly and I said that's good, yeah, that's very good, because from that we can read about what we're going to worry about this year and so on in the field of education. And this year we also set some items that are very important. For example. prevention of violence in schools-less resources, prevention of addiction-less resources, promotion of extracurricular activities-less resources. This year we didn't buy in the school libraries in 2013 a single book because in this budget we deleted it all yesterday, there's no funds for school libraries. Please, someone will have to answer me how it is for these programmes that we all advocate, and today on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities in the debate on violence on sports grounds, Assistant Minister Skansi and Mr Darko Tot, speak of the need to invest in the prevention of violence, should be invested in this precisely for young people. They come from that same ministry. I'm sorry we didn't recognize that in this budget, I'm really sorry. I also want to mention something else to you. My colleague, the Iron Man, is gone, she said that each of us is looking for ourselves in the budget. The truth is, it's looking for us, so it's easy to find itself because this year we have 22 million 826 thousand 117 kuna secured to make commitments from a public private partnership project in Varazdinska and Koprivnica-Kristevci County i.e. for schools in Koprivnica. Well, if I were mayor, too, I'd be happy and I'd find myself here if the state would cover my expenses. It's also in Varazdin County. I keep pointing that out. We've secured 21 million this year, 22 million in 2014 and so much more in 2015. I'd know how to build schools like that. And something local. I don't have a minister here, but I believe you'll be able to answer me. I must tell you that on April 4th of this year, the government made a decision at its session on co-financing of the school when we talk about local projects of the crafts school in Sisak. And the truth is, I said yesterday she started building before the election itself. I welcome this construction because, at the time of HDZ authorities in the county, a project of 4 and a half million kuna was built, and then it was acidified in drawers and it was not possible to start a project for 20 million kunas as much as the World Bank loan was provided, but here we go, and I welcome it. However, you have committed yourself to the government's decision to secure for this year 13 million 377 thousand 518 kuna. Deputy Minister, I expect the government to change that decision or you'll have a rebalancing soon. Because in this position of craft school in Sisak, only 9 million thousand kuna stands. Here you have reduced, I say budget for these purposes and in this year in rebalancing. Now something about reforms. If we think school reform is an end to schools, small schools in special state care, islands, mountain-mounted areas, then we're wrong. Reform is something else, reform is a programme, reform is primarily in high schools in a network of programmes. It's reform. I didn't hear anything about those reforms yesterday, but I don't think you can answer that. Someone should be from the Ministry of Education. And I want to remind you, and I don't want that to go away with health care reform. In 2003, we received this decision overnight in the county. If you do not combine all health homes in a central health home in the county by March 31st, you will not have an insurance salary for healthcare workers. The decision was signed by Minister Vlahusic. I can tell you she's made a big mess of primary health care. And if that's how we think you're gonna forgive the reform, then we better not start anything. [[/Intruder Stazic: Thank you very much. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60086	We're moving on to replicas. First Damir Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60087	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a colleague you mentioned three million and 900 thousand kunas your county singles out for schools, commendably and that should be done by other counties, follow the example of Sisak-Moslavina. For example, only illustrations do not make any money. The city of Đakovo only sets out a greater amount for the city kindergarten than you mentioned. So it's not that much money for every school in the county. Secondly, I do not agree that there is no visible increase in education in this budget. It is clear, however, that the increase in the education budget is 4.2%, especially for preschool education and higher education. Furthermore, in his speech today, the prime minister announced a reform of primary and secondary education, and we are all witnessing in Croatia that for the first time in this country there is a strategy in the public debate and that is the Strategy of Education and Education. So this government really cares about education and this ministry, when you've talked so much about the ministry, is really working on reforms and changes that will make us all better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60088	Replication response, Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60089	Thank you. My colleague Tomic, you didn't understand me first. My county stands out 25 million kuna through a public-needs program. I've told you what needs to be set aside. It must add financial resources to provide funds for the heating of schools, as so much in Sisak has collected heating in a year. 37% of colleagues, Tomic, and 25 million are public needs. I've only talked about what's being secured from the state budget and not enough yet. It's true we talked about reform, it just doesn't start everything with strategy. I'll remind you of the school development plan, the HNOS which, if you read the introduction to the strategy, calls for strategy and these documents. So, we don't start here from scratch, and we're not what we say we discover America.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60090	The replica of the Dunja Spoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60091	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, as usual with your discussions, I agree in large part. So it would be optimal if the budget items for extracurricular activities were large, if the budget items for gifted students were large. They are who they are. But let's be fair to the end, so let's just count apart from what's been reduced and what's increased, so for gifted children in kindergarten, the item is increased by 7%. This is also the case for students with special needs, and these are students with developmental difficulties increased by 6.4%. This increased the item for the teaching standard, for the development of the education system. Although the prevention of violence has been reduced. Thus, it was increased by special programmes in secondary schools, i.e. for students with difficulties by 15.7%. Hence, some items have fallen, and some have been increased, so it may be good to hear it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60092	Thank you. Replication response, Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60093	Fellow Spoljač, exactly you and I agree most often, because we fight together for education regardless of our political commitment. When it comes to education, everyone here should be equal. But I'd like to remind you that what you've read is fictional. And you know why? Because in this rebalancing in 2013, you reduced all this. You also told me about the textbook standard. Well, look at yesterday's document on the table. We cut it down. Well, of course we had to increase this year because we haven't almost secured anything this year to increase the teaching standard. We've led some items to zero, and normally when you recalculate them for the next year that the percentage is 6%, 7%, or 15%. Well, globally, your budget is increasing by 6%, but in reality, it's not increased.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60094	The replica was also reported by Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60095	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, therefore, we have the Law on Public-private Partnership, and it says in this law that the financing of a public-private partnership on the construction, maintenance and management of schools facilities is 45, 55% in terms of state, county, or 10% in the city if it is the founder of primary schools. Therefore, this is done all by law and by that law both Varazdinska and Koprivnica-križevci County receive these funds. Therefore, it is not anyone's decision, manipulation, use of the budget, but it is in accordance with the law adopted by the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60096	The replica matches Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60097	Yes, is colleague Gjurkovic that is in line with the Law on Public-private Partnership that you have brought because it has been so well suited to you, and I will tell you why. There was no item in last year's 2013 budget, but it is rebalancing. Well, then I don't know what Minister Linic was doing that he didn't remember there was a Law on Public-private Partnership and that he must provide for those positions. I want to remind you when we brought it in and when we first included that item in the first place, last time. This year on first rebalancing for this year. Well, if we knew you had that kind of debt per public-private partnership, then we should have planned it in 2012 at this time. And we didn't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60098	The next replica is Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60099	Thank you very much. Have you seen a colleague of Roksandić in this budget of the elementary school in Novi Čič? I'd be happy if you saw her, I didn't see her, and I'd really be thrilled with that. It's a school that started working in 2010 and 2011 and in 2012 it just stopped, practically construction works are 70% finished and that school has been failing for 2 years. Well, it would be fair if the Ministry of Science and Education didn't intend to end this investment to send a letter to the mayor, in which they politely inform him that they would not finance it until the end so that the town of Velika Gorica should be in charge and finish that school until the end, because it is not normal for the children from Novi Čič and the part around Novi Čič to go to Juraj Stančić school in three shifts. And as for this public-private partnership in education in northern Croatia, then we can talk about what happened to local self-government units, what happened to their budgets. On the one hand, I cannot accept that it happened, and on the other hand, every single unit of local self-government needs to be helped when in trouble. Only that help would be even, and let's just say with a few million kunas would probably end up this school that I'm talking about. But I'm saying, since she's been gone for another year in the budget, it would be fair for people in Velika Gorica to say we're not going to make that school, you gentlemen have to take the job or some other means to finance that school and let the kids go to that school so they don't go to three shifts at school.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60100	Replication response, Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60101	Thank you. You're absolutely right. So he wouldn't stay in the air somewhere in this assembly if I were against what they did in Varazdin or in Koprivnica-Crysing County in Koprivnica. Oh, I'm for every little school in this beautiful one of ours. That there was more God gave them to have more children. But the truth is your school is not in this budget, in Novi Čič. It is true that it would be right to inform that the capital project was interrupted for what reason if it was financed, but it is also true that some units of local self-government and regional government must be in debt to 50 million kuna and bear the burden for example for a primary school in Popovaca. Well, then we're saying if we're all equal. Well, we're not because some countries provide and some of the funds are provided, and some don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60102	And the last replica of Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60103	I listen very carefully to you here in the Assembly, and you really often warn in your county about bad schools, on bad conditions, on bad kindergartens. Here's the situation we had in Varazdin County and in 2005 we decided to change it. We set out to build, rebuild schools and halls according to the model of public-private partnership, and we restored all schools, all halls, we created fantastic conditions for both students and teachers, we provided one-way teaching in all schools in the county, we provided centres of excellence that gave results. For the past three years, the Varazdin County has been the first in Croatia to produce results in all competitions. Furthermore, we have provided all high school students with free transportation so that everyone can come from Vinica and Vojje to Varazdin. That's over 1,000 kuna high bus tickets. We provided students with student loans. This meant a 30% increase in high school enrolment and 40% in colleges. These are the results of these measures because we recognize that education is the first. We financed it all ourselves. It was difficult, the truth was hard and fortunate that now this government recognized the importance of education and therefore passed a Law on Public-private Partnership where local self-government units are therefore financed by 55%. My recommendation is you will never have enough in your budgets, nor will it be able to secure the state budget to build and restore all schools. Take this model, rebuild all the schools and kindergartens in this model and use the state funding of 55%. It's a great model. Use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60104	And this replica corresponds to Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60105	Thank you. My colleague Martincevic, you misunderstood me. My schools aren't in bad shape, we keep them very well. 25 million a year for public needs programmes in education and poor county. I'm not gonna say what our mayor says is that we're one of the richest and then statistics come in and then statistics comes in and says we're one of the worst three. We live harder, we live harder because by the age of 95, we were at war. From 95th to 200th, almost 3, 4, 5th, we refurbished 64 schools and raised the standard in our schools. That everyone forgets who comes from northern Croatia, that we weren't all in the same conditions and we're struggling with the budget we have. At this point, we have 21 thousand unemployed, so I'm asking you, where did you get your income from in that county, we're not all equal, and that's why I'm waiting for this Regional Development Act to talk to you here and see who, what and how can. Thank you for your instruction but if we get 23 million kunas I tell you that we would do more schools than you, and you don't know anything about our county and don't mention it because we have a school in one-way work, we provide in kindergartens both for gifted people and for fighting violence and for all activities. Well, we even have some specialized schools. About that only if I had 23 million kuna this year in the state budget for investment in education, I think we were overjoyed by the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60106	We will now hear 10 minutes of discussion from counterpart Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60107	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we've talked a lot about the budget tonight, but there's a lot more to talk about in the budget. I'd pay attention to something that wasn't so much of a word and that's tourism. Tourism is one of the most important economic branches in the Republic of Croatia, and we will be happy to say a strategic branch that participates in our GDP with about 14% which I believe is not a small percentage. This especially hurts us that we come from the largest tourist region, which is Dalmatia. When the prime minister presented the 2014 budget, he just flew over tourism, and that is, when it comes to the revenue side, about the need to increase VAT. In fact, new amendments to the Value Added Tax Act change VAT and tourism and an increase in revenues of around 600 million kuna is expected. I mean, when tourism is taken to make it fair and at least partly return to the same tourism we all expect. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Tourism has the smallest budget and in 2014 even smaller. In this year 281 million and next year is planned 12% less, 246. What is even more saddening is that in 2015 it is taking away 31 million and even less than expected for 2014 for 19 million kuna. In that item, we have an increase in the cost of employees of five million kunas. This is what we saw last night that a new structure is being planned that brings tourist inspectors back to the Ministry of Tourism's office. In 2014, some items simply disappear, so the program for developing new products of sustainable tourism has foreseen zero kunas, the programme for improving the offer of the zero kuna tourism sector, the Zero Kun tourism event promotion programme, the Zero Kun tourism promotion programme in the undeveloped tourist areas. True, there is a new point of competitiveness of the tourism economy, but these items previously listed were far higher and the funds were far higher in 2013 compared to this item in 2014. The tourism ministry should worry about development and investment in tourism. That's why there's an item in the Tourism Fund. In this year 78 million and in the next 40 million. It says these funds are used exclusively to develop tourism infrastructure and preserve tourism resources. We all expect a lot from European funds. These days we hear a promise, and I would say more to the first Deputy Prime Minister's predictions that we are not going to be a net payer, but that we will withdraw 6m euros more than we are paying. However, how much of this will be given to tourism and how much we expect it to speak enough of the programme for the preparation of projects for structural funds. In 2013 large 4 million kunas were foreseen and in the next 3 and a half million kunas. For those who do not come from the sector so they do not know exactly how much it takes to prepare a single programme, I will say that the Ministry of Tourism has opened two competitions after the tourist season, they were open one to 17.lipeds, one to 4 November, the town of Vodice, for example. reported four projects itself the value of the project documentation for one project is million kuna, editing the coastal area, editing the beaches. Which means that this wouldn't be enough for a single tourist resort, I'd say a medium tourist resort like Vodice. We all talk about tourism very much, we are happy to boast that in the first ten months there were 4% more nights than last year, 5 and a half percent more arrivals, only our Sibenik-Knin County achieved seven percent more arrivals and seven and a half percent more overnight stays. But I'm sure he's looking forward to the fact that 18% is a new employee. I wonder what we're bringing development strategies for. In April of this year we brought a strategy for the development of Croatian tourism by 2020, where it says that our main goal is to bring Croatia to 20 leading countries of the world. The minister then said the goal is to encourage investors in their ideas and plans, and to invest 7 billion euros by 2020 and create 30,000 new jobs. Very optimistic and that is what has greatly encouraged all of us, not only in Dalmatia but also in other tourist regions. What investors will be given when we change VAT twice a year in tourism, when we threaten them with new taxes, and for projects in tourism investments or at least to prepare projects, we plan only 3.5 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60108	We have one replica of Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60109	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So esteemed colleagues you when you talk about numbers in tourism or the Ministry of Tourism then I must remind you that the Croatian Tourist Board has a budget of 210 million kuna, that the Minister of Tourism is the President of the Tourist Board and that by coordinating and coordinating the funds of the Ministry through the programmes and projects of the Croatian Tourist Board, I will not be able to achieve and implement the programmes that are important for the implementation of the programme and the Tourism Development Strategy, and through the competitiveness and attractiveness of Croatia for investors in tourism, I think there have already been speeches. The largest number of investments in Croatia at the moment is what the minister said about the reinvested profit is related to tourism. Therefore, we are obviously competitive in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60110	The replica matches a colleague of Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60111	Thank you very much. Well, a colleague like we did last night, or we haven't brought it in yet, but he was at the discussion of the new Building Law, so they told us that it would take another hundred laws to change it to January 1st, so it's probably what you're talking about, it's just an idea. The arrival of the Croatian tourist community is a tourist tax. We know exactly by which system it is deployed, so 30% get cities and municipalities, 30 counties, 30% Croatian Tourist Board and we know that it is strictly dedicated income. So it's not allowed to spend the resources that have been received on the basis of the tourist tax to manage the tourist infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60112	We are left to hear another individual debate from Hrvoje Nekic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60113	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. In my debate, I would start with the necessity and obligation to reduce the deficit to 3%, and this is what this government is going to do for the next three years. This is, above all, our commitment to the Union, and more importantly, our obligation to the citizens. To do so, it is necessary to take measures that will result in a better and better life for society as a whole. The necessity of implementing reforms is the key to success that will bring stability to the system and introduce order into the system. Of all the reforms that are being implemented, I would stress the reform of the social compensation system so that these fees will go to those who need it most. Orders are introduced into the tax system because the system cannot function without order. What is very important is that it is important to insist on fiscalization because it is obvious that prior to the introduction of the fiscalization, a pile of money went into the wind. Also, the increase in rates from 10% to 13% is now critical, but it is much less than 25% as it was and certainly must result in an increase in competitiveness. Furthermore, by encouraging public investment and investment, the government will encourage the creation of a new value and a new product, which will certainly result in new jobs. The reduction of administrative procedures will ensure and facilitate the start of business for investors and the creation of new jobs. A number of parafiscal imposings are being abolished, efforts to help the economy through various decommissioning measures to increase competitiveness. Problems exist, we must not close our eyes to problems but we must face problems because colleagues and colleagues do nothing overnight but this government will certainly do everything to implement the reforms and to achieve the desired results. I base my optimism first of all on the introduction of order. Someone mentioned today that for this government this is a game. My colleagues and colleagues, for this government, this is primarily a huge responsibility, and I'm sure it will work. Public administration reform is also a prerequisite for the success of all other reforms. Investments and economic growth, the creation of new values and exports are a guarantee of success and all reforms that are being implemented are aimed at this direction. What I would also like to emphasise is the obstacles and resistance to almost all the investments the government has raised by various associations, this association, that association, but constantly the opposite. We have to decide what we want. If we want to develop, if we want new jobs, it is simply necessary to start and make investments possible. We also have the fact that the amount of interest to be paid in 2014 is more than 11 billion kuna. the amount of money required to be provided from the budget only for the coverage of that item is visible. Projects from European funds, so as much as we get from these funds, we have so much money to secure in the budget. Furthermore, we continue the indexation and it does not come into question at any time. The pensions in Croatia are already low and not considering that the indexation of pensions would not continue. So no pension cuts, no freezing pensions. As we know, no matter what we enter into the excessive deficit procedure for further cuts, there are no structural reforms already being undertaken. To repeat, a three-year deficit reduction to 3% and whoever says they can go faster can't. This simply cannot be done faster by colleagues and colleagues, and this requires economic growth. And that's exactly why it's given a lot to the economy. When the overall picture is seen, it is clear how much this government lives with businessmen that I would like to especially highlight, how much it has left and how much it will leave the economy, and how much incentives it goes into the economy. It is also important to mention the pre-demand settlements of reduced liquidity as well as the fact that the state has begun to pay its commitments within the deadlines. And so for the end and for the sake of everything I say, I support this draft budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60114	Thank you. We will now hear the closing word of Mr. Slavko Linic's Finance Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60115	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, my colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. On behalf of the promoter, I thank you for today's debate, I really think this debate has helped us perhaps send a very clear message that Croatia is in a very difficult situation. For one reason the Croatian economy has not yet resolved the difficulties after the 5-year crisis, the problem is how to ensure economic growth, to ensure certain funds for the competitiveness of the Croatian economy because we see this growth in exports and new jobs and investments. And that there are very modest opportunities and private economies and when we look at state investments and that's why we go optimistic 1.3% and that's very, very little so we can stabilize our finances. At the same time, we estimate that the stability of the spending party without reforms cannot be done and that is why I really announce significant reforms in management, education, health and social services for 2014. And that without these reforms that won't be easy, which will really be painful, we can't stabilise the spending side, we can't reduce the deficits because the projection of the 2.2.2.5 growth that is still in the next few years of the battle for economic recovery will be so strong that it needs the funds and the results won't be significant. Therefore, savings and reforms on the spending side if we want to have deficits and reduce the very high deficits achieved so far. For 2014 as much as 5% in the central budget. So these are the reasons why we really need to say the battle for economic recovery as a single guideline, an attempt to do something in public companies on infrastructure and energy while at the same time reforms that need to stabilise the expenditure side. How to manage deficits is a problem because with this year's deficits from 2013 we are entering public debt risks of 60%. We're simply crossing that 60% line next year, which is very risky for every budget, for every economic policy. A simple battle to reduce these debts on the one hand can be in strengthening exports to at least secure liquidity for repaying debts and on the other hand it is certain that this is also better management of the property of the Republic of Croatia from those real estates to companies and also to the resources given through concessions to companies in Croatia to generate income and employ people. All of these are simple activities that try to show that a number of reforms are ahead of us, numerous moves and that at the same time changes that will mean uncertainty for the good part of those who have just lived on the state budget and who have basically used spending opportunities on a variety of grounds and simply have not contributed to the stability of our incomes. What I can still point out for this budget. It is the government of the Republic of Croatia that is very well prepared and very clear to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia how we think this time, with greater certainty, to justify this optimism of 1.3% of economic growth. And that is where both dynamically and valuablely we will try to define which investments are in infrastructure and energy and how we intend to achieve them in 2014. What investments are in the protection of water, which are investments in nature protection, I apologize by investing in water and what investments are in nature protection. And of course how successful we will be in withdrawing funds because simply every withdrawal of funds from European funds also means strengthening the investment cycle. Therefore, we will try to further elaborate all of this to make it more clear whether indeed 1.3% of economic growth is available in 2014. But the Government of the Republic of Croatia will also provide a document of short- and long-term measures to be able to dynamically define which ministry we must do in the reforms that we are predicting, in which segment of the clear and definitions that these reforms are in, within which deadlines and what effects we expect in that part. All these documents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be made available to both parliamentary representatives and the public by the end of this year and will consist in a complete additional material of this state budget so that the Government can in some way be monitored in realisation and income and expenditure by the state budget. I thank you again for your contribution to the debate. The amendments will be made and we'll see what else we can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60116	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the text of the draft budget. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60117	Let's go to the state budget. Proposal for a State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 with a projection proposal for 2015 and 2016 The debate on the text of the draft state budget is over. The proposal for an amendment is divided on the bench. I ask the proposing representative to make a statement on the amendments submitted. We have a table of amendments. Dear Minister. Can we? Amendment number one. SDSS counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60118	The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, which proposes a reduction of the Head of the Ministry of Finance by 35 million, and in favour of Croatia's electricity industry, is not accepted by the government in order to complete the programme of reconstruction of the low voltage network. The amount of 41.9 billion planned on Chapter 02506 of the Ministry of Finance consists of public debt obligations, interest and principal service, the provision of funds for contractual and legal obligations, commitments to FINA, religious communities, secured savings, decentralisation of the functions of local self-government units, and those funds cannot be reduced without jeopardising the execution of contractual commitments, as a reduction of 35 million is proposed. At the same time talk about the programme of recovery, the reconstruction of the low voltage network and the war on affected areas should be resolved through the investment programme of Croatia's electricity industry, and in the next period without the help of the state budget, since it is a company that can cover its investments from its profits.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60119	On behalf of the SDSS Club, respected representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60120	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Mr. Minister means these 200 families that wait 10 years after the completion of the organized reconstruction are no one's, not HEPs are not state-owned. Then whose are they? Who will give money to connect the currents they once had, which neither the HEP nor the state wants to join. Who's gonna take care of them? Whose place are these people? These countries or no one, these governments or nobody. It's easy for you to say there's no money in that item, but who's going to solve that problem, Mr. Minister? In the last three years, no houses have been re-electricated. I can't have an understanding for such an answer as much as I respect your work. But someone has to answer for this, because this is inhumane and illegal. The law says that 30 or 60 days after the power is restored, it should be connected. It hasn't been connected in 10 years! And you're telling me there's no room in that item. And is there room to talk to Mr. Minister? No, because ministers can't be talked about the torture, the elemental torture of people. Shame!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60121	Are you asking for a vote, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60122	And what else do I have to ask for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60123	All right, let's hear it. Please state the amendment number one. A SDSS representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Dear Ministers, amendment number two respected representatives Josip Salapic and Krešimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60124	The proposal of the HDSSB Representatives Club, in particular representatives Josip Salapic and Krešimir Bubal, to reduce the item of the Ministry of Finance 2 million and 300,000 kuna, and related to the services of Privatisation Advisor Croatia insurance and to redistribute those funds to finance the activities of the Osijek-Baranja County The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. Explanation. The reason why additional funding for the county cannot be provided is because last year the incomes of Osijek-Baranja County grew by 16.7%, which is why Osijek-Baranja County can no longer be financed by the criteria of full 10 years and these criteria clearly states that in the 2014 State budget proposal for the County, the cities and municipalities of the first and second groups of special state care, the funds of aid are planned which constitute the difference between the aid that these units would achieve by the basis of legal criteria and the return of income tax to citizens who return to the burden of income belonging to the state budget and the funds for that purpose in 2014. Given that higher revenues were made last year, it is the county that cannot meet the criteria and cannot receive increased payments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60125	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I express my dissatisfaction. Sometimes the criteria may not be good, so they should be changed, but these days the prime minister was in Osijek, so he said there are some... some who had war, some who had destruction and a good part of the space on PPDS. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These funds that we are looking for in the amount of 2 million and 300 certainly to help these units of local administrations in a difficult situation. And it's always the county that respects that 75% goes to capital transfers, right in those local administration units. Therefore, I express my dissatisfaction because looking at the position of consulting Croatia's privatisation of 2 million and 300 is not necessary. Slavonia and Baranja need help. Here you can see the government's maternal relationship to Slavonia and Baranja, because the budget projection was also said to be 3 million and 601 thousand 290 kuna, but when we saw the budget we saw that the position was removed. Therefore, it either needs to change the criteria or find a way to help units of local administrations or regional administrations, especially the Osijek-Baranja County and those on PPDS. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60127	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. 2. Representatives Josip Salapic and Kresimir Bubal, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. 3. Deputy Minister Jaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60128	Dear President-in-Office of the Assembly, honourable MPs and MPs of the SDSS Club amendment proposing an increase in the division 0.33 The State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care of the amount of €52 million is proposed and the same amount is not accepted by the Government's Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds. The proposed amendment suggests an increase in the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing, however, as the state office began its work on 1 May 2013 is expected to further identify the activities as well as the necessary means to carry out the activities for which this office was established. If additional funding will be needed during 2014 it will seek to secure the office of course in line with the possibilities in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60129	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the honourable representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60130	First, Mr. Deputy Minister, my question to you, and where is your minister? Why can your minister not be given weeks, days and months to discuss matters concerning the Government programme seriously, including the budget? And secondly, as far as your argument last year is concerned, it's on rebalancing this year from the same item you took 87 million and you said it would be compensated. It's not compensated. You've taken 52 million now. What do you mean, based on what? On the basis of the fact that a state office which is not credited with it was founded at the beginning of the year but only 4 months later by a system of stalling such a government in your ministry that has no renewal, which is why there is no housing care, which is why there is no organized renovation and everything is standing and now you take off the money. With what excuse? Who's gonna rebuild 100 houses? Who wants 1100 houses from the construction material assignment program? 100 houses from the renovation program, 244 family homes to be taken care of from regional development? With what money, Mr. Deputy? Is that what you care about coming back? Is that what you care about? It certainly isn't. I'm sorry that you're listening, you should listen to the one responsible and whose responsibility should start looking for. Because it is irresponsible to this government that we support, because it is irresponsible to the country's programme and it is irresponsible to the people concerned, whether it is Croats or Serbs. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60131	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. 3. A SDSS representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 4th Honored Representative Josip Djakic. The Secretary of Defense. Minister? Amendment No. 4th Honored Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60132	Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs of Amendment No. 4. to the specific section of Article 3 in Chapter 41 of the Ministry of Defence of Activities, Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, Cemeteries of Victims of World War II and the postwar period increase by 972 thousand 200 so that it amounts to 2 million 397 thousand 200 kuna. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Budget law, honourable representative
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60133	I'm sorry, Honorable Defense Minister, but I have a plate that's been distributed to everyone. Amendment No. 4th Representative Josip Djakic. It says here in Chapter 41. The D.A.'s office... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60134	Excuse me, it's here, it's here. The amendment proposes an increase in the division of one-off law rights and other fees to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War of 23 million and 307 thousand kuna, so that it amounts to 53 million and 142 thousand kuna. The reduction is proposed in division 020 on the activities of the responsible persons by 7 million 435 thousand Association for Community Development for 15 million 872 thousand kuna. The position of the government is an amendment not accepted. Explanation, one-time law rights and other fees to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War have been reduced in the proposal of the Ministry of Defence's Financial Plan for the period from 2014 to 2016 for the payment of the right to free compulsory textbooks for regular and extraordinary education in primary and secondary schools and higher schools of children of the deadly defenders, HRVI, peacetime military disabled and Croatian defenders. That law on amendments and additions to the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families shall be deleted and transferred to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports under the name of the Educational Compensation and those funds shall be allocated to that Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60135	Thank you very much. Amendment holder, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60136	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, I believe that even such insufficient funds as are in the overall position of the Ministry of Defence of Reduction by 140 million, which, at the Ministry of Defence, will not be sufficient for all the needs of Croatian defenders at the Ministry of Civil Engineering. What we propose to reduce the fees on the people who deserve it, I was saying that we consider the most responsible Croatian defenders for today's freedom and independence of the Republic of Croatia and here's this explanation that you've given only can stand in the act that the funds transferred to the Ministry of Education for the procurement of textbooks to those who exercise those rights for textbooks. However, we believe that compensation to Croatian defenders, this one-time right that should be in their position to ensure that those who cannot co-finance electricity, perhaps heat or gas, would certainly welcome this position. I believe that there are no real grounds for a reduction and I ask for a vote for this amendment since I believe that Croatian defenders have additional needs and that more and more of those who are increasingly poorer are. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60137	I would like to make a statement on amendment number four of the representatives of Josip Djakic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 5 of the same respected representative Josip Djakic and it is that permanent rights of personal disability, family disability, compensation and others increase by 89 million and 0.500 kuna, so that it is 707 986 900 kuna of the Minister, Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60138	Yes, yes, thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. At the position of permanent rights, the funds in the proposal of the Ministry of Defence's financial plan for the period 2014, 2016 for the payment of the right to supplies, since the new social care law in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth is introduced by a new Institute of Social Compensation under the name guaranteed minimum compensation that unites 4 social benefits so far including the provision. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families deletes the right to supply as social benefits are the funds allocated to the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60139	Amendment holder, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60140	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So this head writes that these are the disabled family invalids, fees and others, it does not say anywhere that it is a supply and I believe that it is not a supplier but a real invalid and a family invalid and other fees, and we are asking that it be increased from the position of the President of the Republic's office after the term of office that the President of the Republic would, at the end of the term of office and that Mr Stjepan Mesic would not be lobbying state money for private investors who want to buy certain state facilities. His authority certainly isn't there. We have therefore proposed that this position be certainly intended for Croatian defenders and not for the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia at the end of the term of office, since these funds are spent for purposes which are not his or her description of his or her duties after his or her term of office has ceased. I disagree with your refusal and I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60141	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement on Amendment 5 of Representatives Josip Djakic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 6 of the respected ministers of the same representative Josip Djakic is about exhumation, identification and burial of victims of the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60142	Thank you very much. It is required to increase by a million 418 thousand kuna in such a way that it amounts to 7 thousand kuna and to reduce by the same amount by the Ministry of Finance to the activities of the administration and the management of the Agency for the revision of the EU programme's implementation system. The amendment is not accepted. At the position of exhumation, identification and funeral of victims from the Homeland War, sufficient resources have been provided for the implementation of all activities, programmes imprisoned and missing planned in the strategic plan of the Ministry of Defence for the period 2014-2016 and annual work plan for 2014 of the Directorate for Detained and Missing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60143	On behalf of MP Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60144	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, well, 1600 missing persons are still wanted and the duty is to ensure for them a fair funeral as well as a search for, exhumation, identification and burial of those victims must require this increase that is the budget cut for next year. For the following year, it is clear that the Agency for the Audit of the EU Programme Implementation System does not need to have such resources provided, given that no tenders for European projects and programmes have been opened, given that no strategies have been adopted, since we are all late, then there is no need in that position, but the issue of missing persons needs to be resolved as soon as possible, used up, identified and properly buried. I cannot accept your refusal of this amendment and I demand a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60145	I would like to make a statement on amendment number six of the respected representative Josip Djakic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 7 of the same respected representative Josip Djakic, Minister of Reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60146	Thank you very much. It's about research, arrangement, maintenance of military cemeterys, graves of Second World War victims and postwar periods. Mr. MP Djakic proposes an increase of 972 thousand 200 kuna, so it is 2 million 397 thousand kuna. For the above-expanded amount, it is proposed to cut funds from the Ministry of Finance, the Fund for the Compensation of Assets on Administration, Administration and Management activities. The amendment is not accepted because sufficient resources have been provided at the site of research, editing and maintenance of the World War II victims' military cemetery and post-war periods for the implementation of all activities of the Programmes held captive and missing under the strategic plan of the Ministry of Defence for the period 2014/2016. the annual work plan for 2014 of the detention and disappearance administration, the Second World War victims sector and the post-war period.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60147	Honourable representative Josip Djakic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60148	Thank you very much, Mr. President, so Mr. Minister, this item with this small increase or balancing needs clearly states that you want to transfer everything to local and regional self-government during a certain time if they would take care of those cemeteries as it is in the law at one point and envisaged. We cannot agree with this because this obligation stemming from the European conventions, which is included in our legislation, must certainly be supported by material means. The neglect or reduction of funds certainly speaks of the fact that it will not be possible to maintain and edit decently as well as to explore the military cemetery of the victims of World War II. Therefore, my desire to increase this item by these 972 thousand kunas is absolutely nothing too large and it would certainly mean that more intensive work will still be done in this field and that there will be a decent marking of both those places and cemeteries that have not been so far. So are those football fields where the cemetery of those who were executed after World War II was built or over-ruled. I am looking for this amendment vote, although you can see for yourself that in the position of the Ministry of Finance, the aid for the compensation of the seized property would certainly not be lacking, given that it is administrative affairs. We're trying to reduce the administration as much as possible, not increase it. I think it's safe from this position that those 972 thousand and 200 kuna would be enough to arrange it if necessary. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60149	Please state the amendment No. The 7th Honored Representative, Josip Djakic, whom the government does not accept. That's for? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 8th of the same representative, the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60150	The activities of civil disabled people from the Homeland War are proposed to increase by 8 million 460 thousand kuna, with a total of 37 million 172 thousand kuna. For an increased amount, it is proposed to reduce funds in the division of the Ministry of Finance to administration and management activities. The amendment is not accepted. At the position of civil persons with disabilities from the Homeland War, funds were reduced in the proposal for a financial plan of the Ministry of Defence for the period 2014-2016 for the payment of the right to supplies. Since the new Social Care Act is introduced in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, a new Institute of Social Compensation under the name of a guaranteed minimum fee that combines four social benefits so far including the provision. The guaranteeed minimum compensation shall guarantee that each year, in accordance with the means available, it will prescribe the amount to which any person with insufficient income and property will be entitled to meet the basic needs of life. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War is deleted from the law of the right to supply as a social compensation and the funds are allocated to the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60151	Amendment holder, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60152	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60153	Thank you very much. Let's go to Amendment No. 9th same representative, respected Joseph Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60154	The amendment proposes an increase in the activities of the participants and victims of World War II and in the amount of 76 million, 782 thousand kuna, amounting to 194 million 462 thousand kuna. The reduction by an increased amount is proposed for the distribution of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs to administration and management activities by 20 million kuna. Projects in informing the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs for 10 million kunas, administration and management for 30 million kunas and at the Ministry of Economy in the activities of administrations and management for 16 million 780 thousand kuna. The amendment is not accepted at the position of the victims of the Second World War and of the pores, a reduction in funding in the proposal of the Ministry of Defence's financial plan for the payment of allowances since the new Social Care Act is introduced in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth under the name of the guaranteed minimum fee that unites four social benefits so far including the provision. The guaranteed minimum subsequent state will prescribe the amount of the amount to which each person with insufficient income and property will be entitled to meet the needs of life. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Military, Civil Disabilities of War deletes this right to supply as a social compensation and the funds are directed to the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60155	Amendment holder, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60156	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So, Mr. Minister, you're saying that the downsizing of these funds by 76 million and 782 thousand and 600 kuna was transferred to the Ministry of Social Welfare. That's what we talked about yesterday. In fact, the need to make peace with these people through one-time aids, which is the kind of heat, electricity, or something like that that is possible as a one-time cash aid to pay off. And I don't think it would hurt the foreign ministry to shrink by that 76 million since their activities are dead. They do not have any economic activity in consular offices, we can see that there are no investors, there are no investors who would invest in the Republic of Croatia, there are not even those who are asking questions. It means that their activity on all these issues that have been made here, their administration, their information and everything they do is not in the service of the Croatian State. So they better supply the money of those who need it, not like this. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60157	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. The 9th Honored Representative, Josip Djakic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. Ten. The Ministry of Culture, the esteemed Deputy Minister. Number 10 representatives of Suncana Glavak and Jasen Mesic. Dear Deputy Shipush.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60158	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Amendment applicants, Sunčana Glavak colleague and Mr. Jasen Mesic at the position of A565012 informative service HINA, amounting to 16 million 679 thousand 720 kuna is replaced by 21 million 679 thousand 720 kuna, and in order to increase the expenditure of 5 million kuna would be reduced on page 43 from the position of T818041 services of privatisation consultant Croatia insurance. The amendment is not accepted. In order to ensure the long-term sustainable functioning and development of the Agency, the Ministry of Culture shall, in the need of harmonisation with European Union legislation and the implementation of the reform measures of the Government of Croatia, hold the necessary Croatian news agency to be gradually rerouted from direct budgetary financing to other sources of funding, such as radio-television fees, European Union funds and market revenues. If, during the transitional period and the sub-financing of HINA within the budget of the Ministry of Culture, funds will be found for its regular business.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60159	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60160	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Of course, we are not satisfied with the rejection of this amendment because this depravation of HINA's funds will lead to its end-of-life resulting from budget projections for 2015 and 2016 where the planned amount is 0. The fact that the state agency cannot be co-financed by the state is not true because France Press is also funded by the French State. It's a strategic agency. It is good to report HINA in the situation in Croatia, not Tanjug or anyone else. And the fact that the Ministry of Culture wants to improve the rationality of business simply doesn't stand because the same budget pumps more than 3 million kunas for so-called so-called. non-profit media directly from the budget and no one asks them to do business on the market, what they're looking for today from HINA. In addition, HINA has served to clean up individual journalists in the HINA itself who were not alike, and this continues, and everything under the cover of restructuring and reorganisation. If the media really wanted to do business on the market, then they wouldn't give more than 3 million kunas, so-called. non-profit media that have no obligation to the market, and now it's required of HINA. We are particularly concerned that, I said, the budget for 2015 and 2016 provides for funding 0 and we believe that this leads to further destruction and that we will be brought into the situation we have with HRT, and the variant is that the HRT funds are transferred to HINA's use is simply not legally possible. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60161	Excuse me, Your Honor, are you asking for a vote? ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please state the amendment number of 10 representatives of Sunny Glavak and Jasen Mesic. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to the amendment of 11 respected representatives Josip Salapic and Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60162	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The amendment proposes behind K565018 construction, maintenance and equipment of cultural institutions a new position, reconstruction of the House of Culture in Belić and column 2 amounting to EUR 2 million, thus proposing a reduction of 0.15 The Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, administration, management, expenditure on services of more than 750 000 kuna and re-office of the President of the Republic's technical and auxiliary affairs, expenditure on services also amounts to 750 000 kuna. The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture, in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, calls for funding of the programme in culture and the programmes reported, are being considered by the Council for certain activities, all in accordance with the Law on Cultural Councils. The programme of reconstruction and reconstruction of the House of Culture in Belić has been declared to be a competition of the Ministry of Culture and will be discussed, of course, and an appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60163	On behalf of the Proposer of the Amendment, Honored Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60164	Thank you, Mr. President. As long as there's a political option in the opposition, then he swears he'll be different from the previous ones. Former Prime Minister Sanader spoke by coming to power about Croatia's not as strong as the City of Zagreb, but as strong as its edge parts. The current ruling coalition said it would lead to special care for Slavonia and Baranja, and whatever proposal we have put forward so far, these proposals were largely rejected. This is for the Ministry of Culture such a small item, but for a small town, big aid and investment, especially if you are making sure that it is an institution and a building that is 57 years old and in which precisely because of the inability and lack of financial resources so far, nothing has been invested. I know that the competitions are being debated, but precisely because we have had negative experience so far as we have been going through these competitions we wanted this to be found in the budget, especially for the reason we are asking to get off with, look, the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia's technical and auxiliary affairs of the President's Office, a much greater benefit to the citizens of a city than it will be to the technical and auxiliary affairs of the President of the Republic. So this could be put into the budget, we'll follow what happens with the competition, but knowing what the experiences have been so far, we're afraid that we'll go through the competition like a fish in the dry air. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60165	Thank you. Please state the amendment number of 11 respected representatives Josip Salapic and Dinko Buric, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to the amendment number 12 of Honored Representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60166	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In a special section of the amendment on page 144, the amendment for the Ministry of Culture in the position of Dubrovnik Reconstruction Programmes is replaced by a sum of 5 million kuna. The increase in expenditure of 4 million kuna should be balanced in a way that reduces that amount on page 318 from the position of A6 88039 of former JNA members. The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture, in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, calls for funding of programmes in culture and reported programmes, as I have already said, are considering and evaluating the Council for certain activities exactly in accordance with the Law on Cultural Councils. In this case, the Programmes of the Dubrovnik Institute for Reconstruction have been reported all of them to the Ministry of Culture contest, will be discussed within the framework of the entire programme protection works on immovable monuments of culture. It is position A565010 and will be decided accordingly, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60167	Amendment holder, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60168	Are you kidding? It is indeed inappropriate for a city such as Dubrovnik, which is the strongest Croatian brand, to deprive the funds that have been between 5 and 6 million kunas each year by the Ministry of Culture. It's about the Assemic Renaissance of the City of Dubrovnik. So it's about the activities of the institutions that relate to reinforcements and anti-quake actually action and prevention. It is about the city of Dubrovnik, which is most eye-to-eye when it comes to the tourist season and the financial results of the same tourist zone. It is that all the statesmen who come to Croatia want to visit Dubrovnik. It is about the fact that the Republic of Croatia has been helping the city of Dubrovnik neatly all these years, especially after the Serbian-cetical occupation and so on. The JNA that inflicted the greatest damage precisely in these days in December of '91. A year. It is a city that has an immeasurable weight of cultural, historical, monumental, etc. A city that stores the largest archive, one of the largest archives in the Mediterranean. A city with the highest cultural heritage. And that the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Croatia gives up this way in 2013. 5 million kuna, and in 2014 million kuna for the same purpose. It is simply an absolutely inappropriate attitude towards the city of Dubrovnik. It just can't understand that, I thought it was some technical mistake. But it is obvious that the Ministry of Culture has no understanding of the main cultural pearl in the Republic of Croatia. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60169	Please state the amendment to the 12th Honored Representative Frana Matušić, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. Ministry of Agriculture, a respected Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Sladjana Spain. Amendment number 13. Honored Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60170	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives Amendment 13 is not accepted. The Ministry of Agriculture has, in accordance with the means available and in terms of rationalising the budgetary costs for that position, secured an amount of 8 million kuna and considers that the planned funds are sufficient for the operation of the State Ergele Đakovo and Lipik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60171	Amendment applicants, respected representatives Josip Salapic and Ivan Drmic. They're gone. We'll have to vote. Thank you very much. Please state the amendment to the 13th Honored Representatives Josip Salapic and Ivan Drmic, which are not present in the assembly. Who's up for the amendment? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 14 of Honored Representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60172	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed project for the construction of the Sikirevci and Slavonski Šamac disposal system with two purifications and one collector will be financed through the Funding of WaterCommunical Infrastructures through the development bank of the Council of Europe and the European Investment Bank. After public procurement, the plan of Croatian Waters and the Ministry of Agriculture is harmonised. The time of realization was planned in 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60173	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60174	Thank you very much. I didn't hear well about the jam in the assembly whether you said "accept" or "unaccepted."
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60175	He doesn't accept. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60176	Yeah, but how come you don't accept if you said you'd do it in 2014?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60177	Because it will come from other means than the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60178	Please, counselor, please give your testimony, and wait for the deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60179	I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm communicating with Madam Deputy Minister and not with you. Therefore,...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60180	I suggest you do it later with coffee cheap.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60181	No, no. There's coffee, we can make coffee with you. I demand a vote on the amendment, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60182	That's right. Thank you very much. Please state the amendment to the 14th Honored Representative Bora Grubisic, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 15, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60183	I suggest that Amendment 15 not be accepted. The development of assisted areas at the annual level financed smaller social and municipal infrastructure projects in units of local self-government whose development index does not exceed 100% of the RH average, the selection of projects is carried out on the basis of the requirements submitted following the publication of a public call for proposals and the evaluation procedure implemented. Therefore, there is no name and last name of the projects to be included in the budget, but after the selection process has been carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60184	In the name of the applicant for the amendment, Josip Salapic and Ivan Drmic showcased the esteemed representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60185	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. I didn't expect anything else but that you would refuse the amendment. And the explanation as it is, I think it is necessary for the project to be named and referred to. There's documentation in Djakov for that square. There is a lot of traffic in Đakov, traffic chaos is being created in the city centre, documentation is being carried out, and without the help of the state, it will not be possible to realise the project. I still think that some of the amendments should be accepted because it makes no sense if the opposition in the Parliament proposes and all of this is rejected. So, one excessive amendment, and I believe that representatives and other parties, and there are here from the city of Djakova, would certainly raise their hands for this amendment if they had the government's permission and the rulings. Well sometimes it may be necessary to do something for your end, at least by raising hands for an amendment that refers to where we live, and the need exists for residents and citizens of the city of Djakov. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60186	Please state the amendment No. 15. Representatives Josip Salapic and Ivan Drmic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. 16th Honored Representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60187	The position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not accepted. The programme of integrated development of the local community since 2004 has been preparing for closure. In view of the deadlines set for the withdrawal and closure of loans and the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the adoption of the project implementation plan planned for this budgetary position for 2014 are intended for the completion of the projects already launched and the completion of the programme. As the proposed project is not applied within the specified time limit, it is not possible to implement it through this budgetary position.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60188	The applicant for the amendment, the respected representative Boro Grubisic, is an obvious one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60189	Mr. Puljiz in the Municipality of Gaćin 10 children from the village of Gacini is enrolled in the first grade primary school this year, 10 children. In 9 villages of the Municipality of Gaćin, municipalities of special state care and other surrounding villages let's list the Vrhovina, Klokočevi, Šushnjevci, Zadubravlje, Selna, Bitsko village, Sapci, Gaćin and other municipalities waiting for about 500 to 600 people in a place for older and powerless people. Since the documentation, therefore, is ongoing and building permits and will be completed by 15 January 2014 I have applied this amendment to consider it. So I'd say and quote what we hear in the phone headphones often and that's what the user is busy, try later. That's your explanation, so I'm asking for a vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60190	Please state the amendment No. The 16th Honored Representative of Bora Grubisic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 17 respected representatives Josip Salapic and Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60191	The view of the government is that the amendment is not accepted. The reasons are the same as in the case of the previous amendment. Namely, when it comes to the project of integrated development of the local community, the deadlines for reporting projects for this programme have expired so that all the funds that will be intended for the implementation of this programme in 2014 relate to already started and agreed projects. As the proposed project has not been applied within the specified time limit, it is not possible to implement it through this budgetary position.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60192	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60193	Dear Mr. Deputy Minister, namely to encourage the demands of a truly large population of pensioners in our city and here is part of the ruling HSU coalition in our area we have applied according to this project. However, we are aware that the city itself must do something. We have provided our share of the funds so as not only to enable pensioners to have adequate spaces but also to be able to compete for programmes of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth that implement assistance programmes in the house of older and powerless persons and living room. And that's of unusual importance to us. If a small town, however small we may be, lives in it, if we do not treat older people and pensioners with all due respect, then we send a bad message to those who come behind us. They'll treat us the same way. If a small town can single out and is willing to allocate the funds of 300 thousand kuna to create something for an extremely large population of pensioners, then I believe that it is the state to allocate 500 thousand kuna to complete this whole project and thoroughly rebuild and reconstruct and train for other things, for the needs of the pensioners to allocate 500 thousand kuna indeed a symbolic amount. And I believe that there is a good will so that this amount can be found. We've been looking this year, there's been promises, obviously there's nothing out of those promises. We're going through those lists as we go. Here, I demand a vote on this, hoping that you will have an understanding for the population of the pensioners that it represents and part of the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60194	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. The 17 respected representatives of Josip Salapic and Dinko Buric, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 18th Honored Representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60195	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. The T821032 project of island development and coastal development of the EIB 3 programme for 2014 provides for an amount of 71 million kuna and is sufficient to finance all projects already launched. As the ministry's intensities to co-finance such and similar projects with EU funds are reduced, the funds that came exclusively from the budget or by borrowing from credit institutions are reduced as the preparation and implementation of projects co-financed by EU funds is stimulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60196	Amendment holder, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60197	Your Honor, Deputy. Yesterday I heard that all amendments were not accepted so that this story was pure form but my wish was that the Ministry of Regional Development had enough money to develop all of Croatia regionally. The EIB's 3 loan is one concrete aid, perhaps the only one we're looking at within the department's division. Do you know how much the Ministry of Regional Development had in 2011, a billion and 800, so a billion and 800, today we have 766 million, went to the office for care, okay? In rebalancing, you left it to the Ministry of Finance 130 million kuna for 2013, 130 million kuna. You have a total smaller division than the Ministry of Culture. Can we even talk about regional development policy, see how much the requirements of local self-government for the project are. This was a concrete aid, 40 million kuna is a lot, it could have been interpreted as a share of state or local self-government in fund projects, but when it comes to the Ministry of Regional Development the same story, wait for funds, there's not enough money here. I guess you'll end up with 71 just these projects you started. Everyone else doesn't stand a chance, there are over two hundred nominated. The bank approved some. I see you refused me this second amendment because it doesn't comply with the Budget Law. I asked for the construction of a sports hall in the municipality of Lopar, 9 million kuna. The hall has had project documentation for two years, has construction documentation. The municipality invested several million kunas in the purchase of land, every conversation to the ministry starts with no money, wait for funds, when we get to some situations it all ends up in a way that ended in budget. I'm looking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60198	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number 18 of the respected representative Josipa Boric, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to Amendment 19 to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, Deputy Minister Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60199	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. The problem of crossing the railway line with St. Mandića in Osijek will be resolved as part of the project of reconstruction and electrification of the railway line on the route Osijek-Strizivo-Vrpolje at the c branch of 5 corridors. For the purpose of preparing and implementing the project, the company hz infrastructure signed a co-operation agreement with the town of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County. The crossover problem will be resolved by making a two-level crossover, denivelation and the project will be applied to EU funding funds. In view of the dynamics of the implementation of the projects, the above funding is not foreseen for the positions of the state budget for 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60200	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60201	Thank you very much. In fact, listening to an explanation, you'd think it would work out, but for ten years we've been listening to the same information, we've been doing the study, we've done the permits, and we've made the authority for that location. At that location, 25 thousand vehicles a day and big plugs are created, about 150 minutes of people standing during the day. They're car columns, and since the south bypass is done, it's a big problem. At least part of the funds should have been left for the project in the budget so that the funds may be multiplied with the EU, but when we see that the deficit is 17 billion, that Osijek is being reduced by the rebalancing of the funds and also is not being provided in 2014 we express our dissatisfaction. This policy does not lead to regional development, nor does it lead to the resolution of important capital investments related to Osijek. I hope you don't mind the SDP and HDZ coalition in Osijek, so punish us. I believe that this amendment should be classified in order for that Gordian node in Osijek to be resolved, which has been a major transport infrastructure problem for years. I therefore request a vote on the proposed amendment, and I expect HZ not to close its eyes to a major problem in Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60202	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment of 19 respected representatives Josip Salapic and Kresimir Bubal, which the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 20 of Honored Representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60203	The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. In accordance with the Law on Roads and the Law on excise duties from the State budget, compensation is paid for the financing, construction and maintenance of public roads per litre of charged excise duties on energy, motor gasoline and gas oils used as fuel for the cost of 0,60 kuna on the account of Croatian highways and the amount of 0,60 kuna on the account of Croatian roads. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Roads and the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways will redistribute the funds that are paid per litre of charged excise duties on energy, and in the amount of €0.20 at the expense of Croatian highways instead of the current 0.60 at the expense of Croatian roads instead of the current 0.80 kuna. By releasing the work of €0.20 per litre of charged excise duty on energy, they will be provided with funds for financing the construction, maintenance of the railway infrastructure without additional burden on the end-user. The redistribution of the prescribed excise duty on energy is explained by the final completion of the construction of the highway network in the Republic of Croatia, needed to further encourage the strengthening of activities to achieve the prescribed functions of state roads as well as the sustainable and permanent source of financing of railway infrastructure. The effects of increasing the amount of funding, maintenance and construction of state roads are reflected in the reduced need of future credit obligations of the Croatian Roads, which will also affect the reduction of future public debt. The effects of reduced income on Croatian highways are explained by significantly reduced investment and the realization of the highway monetization process. The fee for financing the rail infrastructure from excise duties is the source of funding which compensates HZ infrastructure manager for the lack of revenue due to insufficient resources from the state budget for the organisation and regulation of transport, the maintenance of railway infrastructure and the management of undertakings in accordance with the contract on the management of railway infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60204	Amendment holder, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60205	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Antešić, you called for an amendment to the Law on Roads and an amendment to the Excise Tax Act that you amended yesterday. That law was on the agenda yesterday. And the budget was last week. So you did something that is, of course, unacceptable, which is that, in fact, first of all, in the draft budget, you predicted that you would actually change the way you were going to distribute the excise duties. And that's how you're gonna end the highway work. The moment the highway reached Dubrovnik-Neretva County, a further construction of highways in the territory of the Republic of Croatia stopped. And transferred funds that normally went out of the fuel for highways and that paid all the citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County now transferred those funds to the railways and to cover the deficit in the same company. So, no use. And of course the message you're sending is very clear, Dubrovnik doesn't need the highway, it doesn't need the high-speed rails, it doesn't need an extra air line. He didn't need a bridge until a few days ago until the European Union began to assure you that the best solution is to connect Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County with the Croatian Bridge. So I hope that bridge continues to work, we believe, and very soon. But this message you're sending to the residents of our county that we don't need a highway that's actually part of the Adriatic-Ionian direction is absolutely unacceptable. I demand a vote, a statement... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60206	Please state the amendment No. 20th Honored Representative Frana Matusic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Dear fellow MPs, respected fellow MPs before the flight change at the president's table, one notice. We ask that after the vote of the financial documents of the Republic of Croatia we work 9. The 10th and 11th agenda, these are the laws on spatial planning and construction and inspection, which were due tomorrow morning, but because of the inability for applicants to have a deputy minister here, or, the Deputy Minister or Minister, so we can do it today after the vote is over. Please consider that. And now I ask my fellow Stazic to continue to hold the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60207	We move on to Amendment 21 of Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60208	The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. The planned funds of 347 million 354 thousand and 400 kuna in the division of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Special Head of the Coastal, Line and Maritime Transport Agency are sufficient and sufficient for the settlement of all commitments made in 2014 in accordance with the concession contracts signed. To ensure the same number of ferry, ship and high-speed lines and the same frequency of travel as in 2013. It is particularly important to note that since 1 July of this year, the adoption of a new Law on excise duties of shipowners in coastal line transport, maritime transport, pay favourable fuel without excise duty, thus reducing the total costs of their operations and thus the need for support from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60209	Amendment holder Branko Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60210	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister and you and some other members of the government, whether ministers or deputies are islanders. So I expected the government to show more concern for the Croatian islands in this budget as well. In the 2014 budget of the Republic of Croatia, never less funds for Croatian islands were in the positions of the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds, either at the positions of your ministry, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. It is true, and we at the club supported that Croatian passenger shipmen are free of excise and toll payments and thus buy fuel at the price of a lot of oil. But with this budget, you have practically annulled this measure because you have reduced the subsidies to passenger boaters, and neither the well-imagined project nor the boaters nor the benefits of the islanders benefit. And so it happens that in the season we have very, very, and also beyond the season very high prices of ferry tickets. So I'll give you an example for the island of Korčula to Lastovo. The price of a ferry ticket for a private vehicle and family from four members, return ticket to Korčula and to Lastovo is 1605 kuna. 1605 kuna. The same family could spend so much time on the Croatian coast for several days. Therefore, with this answer, you have practically confirmed that the Croatian Government does not contribute to better transport connections of Croatian islands. That we have reduced the amount of agency that subsidises passenger traffic and that practically ticket prices will remain very high, thus detimizing life on islands and not contributing to the sustainable development of Croatian islands. And I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60211	Let us plead on the amendment of MP Branko Bačić, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. It's the Department of Construction and Spatial Planning. I'd like the Deputy Minister, the Honorable Zeljko Uhlir. Amendment 22 of the SDSS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60212	Thank you. The Government's view is that the amendment is not accepted, and it is in the light of the reasons that the funds for social promotional housing are strictly dedicated and are planned to meet the needs of both the local agencies and the public institutions of the APN by returning these funds for the sale of apartments and cannot be re-scheduled for other purposes. The additional purchase funds required are planned to move forward in cooperation and according to the plan with the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Management, primarily with EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60213	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60214	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, here's the third time you've refused our amendment, so we're surprised by the incredible ease of not understanding these problems, at the same time by not understanding some of the assumed international obligations, and also by the ease of not understanding some of the partnership relationships we've been building on these things so far. So we asked this amendment to resolve at least one of the 320 resolved apartments, former housing rights holders outside the PPDS. In 2013, you made 10 million kunas for this thing, bought 20 apartments. Now you've secured 10 million and 800 thousand kuna for 20 apartments. At this rate you will solve these 320 solutions, i.e. apartments in 16, 17, 18 years. We made a commitment when we entered the European Union that we would solve this problem by 2015. We are looking for an additional 50 million from the position of POS, not because we think POS is not a dedicated asset, but because it is evident that 54.7 million kunas remain in the budget for this year, and that gives us the right to think that the same or similar situation will be next year, and here we see a space for the change of funds from POS to APN to solve at least 100 apartments, at least 1/3 of outstanding problems. So if you'd like to remind me, on Sunday we spent 50 million kuna on a referendum, and we're talking about electricity, we're talking about APN, we're talking about housing, all of these are sizes that are less than the cost of a weekly referendum. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60215	Let us be clear about the amendment of the SDSS's Club of Representatives which the government does not accept. Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment number 23 of Representatives Josip Djakic. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60216	Thank you. The amendment of MP Josip Djakic is also not accepted for the same reason that the programme for the care of victims from the Homeland War is taking place in co-operation and according to the needs and plans expressed by the Ministry of Defence and are also linked to the funds foreseen for these plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60217	Representative Josip Djakic, applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Deputy Minister, you must be aware that 13600 requests from Croatian defenders are on the waiting list and priorities. Through the new law, we have extended our rights to volunteers who are not homely cared for, and you are cutting funds in this position and saying they will be secured in the Department of Defense. They're not secured there. At this rate I cannot expect Croatian defenders so far with the funds that we could count 45 years for their housing care, we stop at this rate, given that the Ministry of Civil Engineering was responsible for calling tenders for payment, supervision and handing over the key to the Ministry of Defence, which was then on the list of priorities and shared. I do not think that this figure is necessary in the administrations and managements of the Ministry of Economy, as well as in the Pressure Equipment Agency, as well as the Bureau of Standards, and would be sufficient at least to complete the buildings you start or start building where local units have their own understanding, equipped it with municipal infrastructure and given it to the Ministry of Construction and the Ministry of Defence to provide housing for at least a part of those most needed. Years pass, and Croatian defenders are not taken care of. 13600 people with disabilities in the Homeland War are waiting to be taken care of. Their criteria are getting harder. Children are growing up and are no longer in the criteria of making housing relief, and you in this position are also removing these insufficient funds for completing the starting buildings. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60219	Who is for the amendment of MP Josip Djakic, whom the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment number 24 of Branko Bačić's MPs. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60220	Thank you. The amendment by Agent Branko Bačić was also not accepted by the Government by reason of the fact that the Law on subsidisation and the State guarantee of residential loans for which the applicant was called was valid until 31 December 2012, i.e. the citizens were able to request, to submit a request for subsidisation by that date. Since the law has ceased to apply, there is no basis to increase the funds according to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60221	Amendment holder Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60222	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, you know that this government's housing policy, your government, has experienced a complete debacle and we're aware of that, and we've heard about it today. So the pompously announced continuation of the project incentivising the housing has not won any success. Your modified POS+ model, even worse, is experiencing a complete end. So nothing in those two models has been achieved. And the construction sector that should have felt the results of such measures of yours was just almost gone completely. The only project that proved to be successful was a co-financing project to sell apartments with a state guarantee and a state subsidy where 2 and a half thousand apartments were sold in just a few weeks. In addition, you abolished the grant for housing savings. So, as far as this government's housing policy is concerned, there's no success, nor do I see what the government is going to do. It is true that the law you mentioned is not in force, but I asked the government to restore it and thus help young Croatian families buy their own apartments with the most favourable co-financing model. We at the club also support the draft law on renting apartments, but the law has not yet come here to the Croatian Parliament. If you had come with that law, maybe we could set ourselves up differently according to your housing policy. This is how none of this government in the housing policy section is benefiting and this was the only way that for a time until the government finds a new project, some new model for us to move on in a certain way and allow for the continuation of residential construction in the Republic of Croatia. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60223	Who is in favour of the amendment of MP Branko Bačić, whom the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. I ask Deputy Sasha Zelenick to come because we have amendments to the division of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Amendment 25. SDSS counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60224	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Amendment number 25. The government does not accept the funds to co-finance the procurement of textbooks for children killed and missing defenders and students living on unfavourable socio-economic occasions until 2013 were planned by the Ministry of Defence, i.e. the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, and within the framework of the integration of educational fees from 2014 are planned under the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and their purpose is laid down by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60225	Minister, we understand each other well. Amendment 25. Yeah, that's it. Okay, on behalf of the SDSS Club, here's Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60226	I'm sorry, but that's not the amendment. Should I read it? So we asked for an amendment where the last part of Article 3 is said to be code 80 titled Ministry of Science and Education item to encourage the education of national minorities. [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60227	Deputy, I'm sure you've given an explanation. The Deputy Minister was clear on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60228	Okay. Then the way we've submitted the amendment, I'll give my opinion on it. I'm not happy to tell you right away, Deputy Minister. The first thing we have made an amendment to something to return to the post in 2011 and is directly related to the co-financing of textbooks for primary and secondary school students, which in this year is 21 million 675 students, kuna pardon. [[Intruder Stazić: Here you go.]] This means that all children will have new textbooks next year only members of national minorities who are educated in their own language and the letter will not have enough resources to do the job, to translate the textbooks, which means I am bad, I would say that national minorities should write on a tile next year. But I know it won't be like that, because I know you have to plan it, and it'll probably be changed next year. But I don't know why it wasn't already accepted because it was perfectly logical to accept it. As far as this amendment is concerned, I think that not only the club of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament, but other clubs in the Croatian Parliament should, as well as the SDP club, accept this as the Government should accept me. So I am asking for a statement under this amendment, because I think that in this form it will cause a lot of damage to both national minorities and the Republic of Croatia, but in the end that this will change for the future, or for the next year to remain a mark in what I am now talking about as I have said, I am asking for a statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60229	Who's in favour of Amendment 25. A SDSS rep club the government doesn't accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment number 26 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60230	So, not to be banned. The amendment stipulates that a million and 133 thousand swear with...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60231	Deputy, don't explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60232	Okay. The government does not accept the amendment because it is an activity from which funds are intended to be removed. Encouragement to the Croatian community of technical culture financed from gambling funds whose purpose is laid down by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60233	Who's going on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60234	I'll do it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60235	Dragan Blackbeard, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60236	So here's the thing, as far as the specific education programmes for implementing national minorities' programmes are concerned, the same as the previous amendment. So I'm saying that we're proposing to return to a 2011 position that was some optimal. We now have a situation, and you know very well at the Ministry of Education that there is not enough resources for the education of national minorities, for example by model C or summer school or winter school or some other, so incentives. I'm going to say here an example of the education of members, children of members of national minorities in preschool education where the item is reduced to 8 months, so it's as if the kindergarten lasts for 8 months throughout the year even though in the last year we talked to the Ministry of Education and got assurances that it will come back these items we here now when de facto it should be done now we're back on the same story, or I would even say here and less. Because last year in rebalancing, or these cuts are these funds, they were transferred to the scholarship of Roma children for scholarships. And it's not even divided, because the commission just now met and we suggest that it be installed for the next budget and you don't accept it again. I don't think that's absolutely correct, and I also think that this item will probably be rebalanced because we've heard explanations from some of our other amendments that probably, if there's a need next year, you're going to irrigate those funds. I guess it's already known that it's going to go into rebalancing. So I don't know how consensual this draft budget is. But anyway, it works, because we think it's absolutely necessary for this item to look like we suggested, I'm looking for a statement in the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60237	Who's in favour of Amendment 26. A SDSS rep club the government doesn't accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment of 27th Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60238	The government does not accept amendments for reasons in accordance with Article 143(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on education and education in primary and secondary schools means of building, upgrading and reconstructing the school space and equipping school institutions according to standards and norms prescribed by the minister and, in accordance with state pedagogical standards, ensure in the budgets of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. Only capital projects were taken over from that provision on 1 July 2001, initiated and nominated in the state budget for which the completion of the commitment was made by the state budget and the school in the language and letter of national minorities and schools for children with developmental difficulties. The same provision does not apply to schools involved in specific building programmes financed by international loans, such as World Bank loans. In line with the government's definition of the founder and fund-holder, the funding models for building the required building will be considered, for example, a public-private partnership. In addition, the funds planned for the distribution of the Ministry of Finance from which it was proposed to take the administrations of the Tax Administration are planned in accordance with the law and cannot be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60239	Representative Josip Salapic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60240	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, I have to admit that this was like a declaration for something that you don't accept as far as I understand. The reason that local self-government, i.e. the Marjanci municipality, can finance a 9 million kuna school is a fairy tale. So there's no funds for such a small municipality for such a big investment. And what is important and important is that there are children in this small municipality who have to travel and pay the costs of transportation to a larger centre where their school is, and here there is a great need for school from 1st to 8th grade. If our government's strategy is for science and education lifelong learning, maximum investment in young people, in new generations and in the future of Croatia in the EU, then a model should be found to help small municipalities to finance such important projects in a certain way. I therefore point out once again the importance when you mentioned that the burden of local self-government falls on the importance of a new territorial reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia thinking in the future about setting up new regions. Whether they will be 5 or more depends on the political conversation and the projections that will be but we believe that the future of local administrations but also children and schooling without certain changes in the territorial structure will do nothing. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60241	Who's for Amendment No. 27th Representative Josip Salapic, who is not accepted by the government? The amendment didn't get the required majority. We move on to Amendment 28 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60242	So, and this amendment, the government does not accept. The explanation is exactly the same as the previous one, so I don't think there's any point in repeating it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60243	Amendment holder Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60244	Thank you, Vice President. Since I said about school... The same applies to Chepin, and the same will apply to the school in Lower Miholjc so that we don't listen to the same explanation you said I suggest that this amendment be voted on so that we can see who is in favour, who isn't that we don't talk about the same thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60245	Who is to amend the 28th Representative of Josip Salapic whom the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 29 by Bora Grubisic. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60246	So even this amendment is not accepted by the Government. Same subject and same explanation again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60247	Carrier Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60248	Thank you very much. Well, what we expected for Slavonia is not to accept the amendment. But keep an eye on the hands and feet and the circulatory status of the hands of some of your officials and the highest. But when we talk seriously about the Sikirevs and elementary school in Sikirevci or the school-sports hall, then you can imagine where children play border guards, handballs. So, in the classroom. For 10 years, the project stands, so he's got all the paperwork. Unfortunately, neither did she hear from the former government nor from your government. The municipality is of special national concern, so the Sikirevetci municipality, but here's the way you're dealing with it, I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60249	Who's for Amendment No. 29th Representative Bora Grubisic, who is not accepted by the government? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment No. The 30th representative of Drazen Djurovic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60250	Therefore, even this amendment is not accepted by the Government, and the justification is identical to that of the previous.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60251	On behalf of the applicant of the amendment, who will? Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60252	So it's about 2 million kuna money. That's 0.00.6% of the state budget for building buildings and sports hall in Požega. Sometimes the centre of Slavonia and the Turks recognized Požega as the headquarters of their Sanjak Slavonia, but here's not even this government I don't think they even know it, is it, let alone recognize it. This amendment requires initial means to start, only to start works on the construction of a multi-purpose sports hall with the Požega High School. There were 240 thousand kunas in the same position last year. This year 2014, there's nothing. A powerful building permit for construction of the building has been obtained and lasted 2 years. She'll get her period of validity, and then we'll have a problem rebuilding her, right? So this is about a multi-purpose sports hall that would basically be used for the needs of 3 high school, not 1, high school, Catholic classical high school, maybe that's why it's not approved, and a secondary music school in Požega. There's only one sports hall in Požega in Grabrick, right? And it's in permanent state, and this would be a big step forward for Požega. Unfortunately, you have no hearing of Slavonia and Baranja as a whole or Požega. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60253	Who's for Amendment No. 30. Representatives Drazen Djurovic and Bora Grubisic who are not accepted by the government? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment of 31st Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60254	The government does not accept this amendment either. So the explanation is consistent with the previous ones. I repeat once again that, in accordance with the government's definition in cooperation with the founder and fund-holder, funding and building models will be considered through, for example, the public-private partnership model.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60255	The applicant for the amendment Josip Salapic please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60256	Thank you, Vice President. I'm gonna do what I said one more time. If we are interested in investing in the future of young people, if we are interested in education, if we are interested in quality education, if there is a need for capacities that are justified, if there is a need for those children to attend classes in a certain way according to the highest European standards, then funding for such investments should be found. There are spendings on some other items that are absolutely possible for the occasion of this year and such a huge investment of 36 million kuna cannot be financed by the town of Donji Miholjac. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60257	Who is the amendment of 31 representatives of Josip Salapic whom the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. I thank Deputy Zelenika and call on Minister Mirand Mrsic, the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. Amendment 32 of Representative Josip Djakic, please welcome the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60258	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot accept this amendment because the funds are necessary for the implementation of the prescribed tasks and the work of the ministry, for example to take over 300 inspectors and officials from the State Inspectorate, so we cannot redistribute the funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60259	Amendment holder Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60260	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So these 960 thousand kuna funds that are for former political prisoners' pensions are certainly not a preoccupation in paying the administration since those inspectors you'll be taking over from their portfolios and compensations for their salaries as well as any other fees that go towards them. A political prisoner are also as councilors of freedom, democracy, independence in their now-old years, I certainly don't know how much you're going to reduce it by, or maybe that's the natural outflow of the 960 thousand kuna. If it's a natural spill I'd withdraw this amendment but explain to me what a reduction of 960 thousand kuna in that position is, so I'll be pleased. This way I'm not happy with your answer and it's not exactly what you said you'd have to finance the administration of these inspectors you're going to take over. They already have funds for them in other ministries and resorts that cover them. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60261	Who is in favour of the 32 amendment of Josip Djakic, whom the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 33 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60262	The amendment is not accepted. The Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot accept this amendment because the funds are necessary to carry out the prescribed parts, transactions and obligations and the part-line of the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60263	The applicant is Mr. Josip Djakic, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60264	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Minister, the reduction in the position of the Croatian Homeland Army's pension also speaks about what direction this government is heading and does not respect their rights must surely require us to intervene with this amendment that the reduction in the position of administration and governance. Since you are constantly talking about reforms to be implemented, reduce and speed up administration and governance. The administration is certainly not the one who needs to stay in position and these unfortunate people who are dependent on these pensions are certainly welcome item and is neither too big nor too big. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60265	Who is the amendment of 33 representatives of Josip Djakic whom the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 34 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60266	The amendment is not accepted. The Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot accept this amendment because the funds are planned for the necessary implementation of the prescribed tasks of the Department and the responsibility of the Ministry as well as the commitments undertaken.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60267	Amendment holder Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60268	Mr. Ministers Croatian Pension Insurance Institute reduces Croatian defenders' pensions by 15 million kuna. 15 million kuna reduction is certainly not a natural outflow of users' pensions because I am sure it will not allow either administration or management in agencies that are also inert and which do not do their job. We see from all those positions of reduction of budget items that are not achieved that administration is the one that must be choking today's system. Croatian defenders are not to blame and therefore should not be avenged by such reductions. I hope this isn't all I wanted to say, and what we see in these 15 million kunas in the additional budget, given the announcements that you will 10% cut pensions to all those who have over 5,000 kuna. I believe that you will increase this administration then to hire your political staff who will surely be provided with these monetary incomes that you reduce to those who are most responsible for the freedom and independence of the Croatian homeland. I'm looking for a safe vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60269	Who is the amendment of 34 representatives of Josip Djakic whom the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. I thank Minister Miranda Mrsic. I call on Minister Rajko Ostojic to come for a pay phone, to show about the amendment of 35 MPs Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60270	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Djakic, Amendment number 35 is not accepted for a clear reason because the amount of funds foreseen for 2014 is determined on the basis of an assessment of the experience so far, professionally, experiencedly and scientifically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60271	Amendment holder Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60272	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, hello to me, counseling fees never enough in view of their lifetime, at a time off, on health problems, on the possibility of using accommodations in Varazdinski, Daruvarski, Krapina spas, in spas where they are needed as well as benefits for their prosthetics, there are more and more of those who complain that you reject them for such hospital and clinical treatment. There are more and more of those who are talking about reducing medicines to their personal needs. Now 12 million kuna budget cuts are saying that these are the evaluations of the professional public, the professional public should take all their remarks that have been rejected from HZZO and see how long these people have been waiting for both clinical and hospital care and then in rehabilitation centres to facilitate their age and their disease that they have drawn from defending Croatia's homeland. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60273	Who's for Amendment No. The 35th government doesn't accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. I call on Minister Slavko Linic to show himself about the amendment to Adriatica Kosor's 36th representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60274	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. The Office of the Information Commissioners is yet to be established and under the full of two months is functioning. The work of the office with 5 employees is scheduled for next year, and funds are provided for that part. We know that if the office functions in the fullest sense of all of the activities prescribed by it and its structure at that time, it will require a greater number of employees especially in inspection services. Depending on the speed of the structure, the government will then provide the missing funds with internal redistributions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60275	Amendment holder, colleague of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60276	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, it is true that a recently established office has been established and that most of it has been elected by the Commissioner here. However, it is the office's budget for the whole next year. If it has only a million and 300 and slightly more thousands of kuna, it will absolutely not be able to, or that office will not be able to carry out its activity in accordance with the obligations we have made in Chapter 23. Because access and access to information but also sanctioning those in more than 8,000 public authorities who are obliged to provide information important tools in the fight against corruption. So the office won't be able to do its job and starting an office will actually just be one loose and no letter on paper. So I suggest, because I have made it clear that this amount is slightly more than a million and 300 thousand kunas that would allow such an action, means sanctioning, hiring inspectors, supervision, what is extremely necessary. I suggested that it be removed from the position of the State Air Force Management Directorate because that position was increased almost 100%. So from about six and a few million kunas to nearly 12 million kunas, which I don't think is necessary next year. So I suggest we vote on this amendment. That the Information Commissioner's office should be separated from an additional million and 300 thousand kuna so that the office could indeed perform its function that we signed when we entered the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60277	Who's for Amendment No. The 36th representative of Jadranka Kosor who the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. One amendment has not been submitted in accordance with the Budget Law, which is the amendment of MP Josip Boric. We're not going to decide about him. And that's what we've concluded, and I'm closing the debate on the amendments tabled. I am voting on the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 and projections for 2015 and 2016. The budget requires a majority of the votes of all MPs. And I'm asking. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I note that with 81 votes in favour and 38 votes against the adoption of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 and projections for 2015 and 2016, the text in the text proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60281	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. The item, under quotes, of the construction of the Srijem border transversal Ilock-Lipovac is planned in accordance with dynamic plans at the K2005 position of other State road operations programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60282	Amendment holder Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60283	I will not comment on your statement and your explanation. I'm just curious about when that road will start to build. It's about the Ilock-Lovas-Tovarnik-Lipovac road, so as part of the fast road that goes even in some ideas from Varazdin all the way to Lipovac and later to Župa, so I'm wondering when you'll start building that road. If you can just tell me more, and I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60284	Of course he can't now, we can't open the debate. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I am voting Amendment No. 1 of the representatives of Bora Grubisic. Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment number two of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60285	Thank you very much. The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. The heading for the construction of the eastern road connection in Slavonski Brod is planned at the position of K2005 other programmes of procedure on state roads according to the state of completion of the project documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60286	Amendment holder Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60287	Good for us. Here you can see that it is not true that Slavonia will not, that the government will not help Slavonia. The Eastern Vesna Road has been in projection for many years, we know about the port of Brod, about the economic zone and the port of Brod and the economic zone of Bijeliš, a merger with the highway. So it's about the state road, but the state as you said it yourself has a way of delaying, delaying or not building that eastbound road. Brodjans think nicely about this government, you've given them votes, and now go ahead and do it again. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60288	Who is the number two amendment of Bora Grubisic, which the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment number three of Igor Chesek's MPs. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60289	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted with reasons. The construction of project documentation for the construction of the fast road Belovar-Virovitica is planned at the K2004 site of the fast road construction and reconstruction programme according to the dynamics of project documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60290	Amendment holder Igor Češek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60291	I'm not satisfied. I wanted this road Belovar-Virovica to be put into the budget. It is very important for the citizens and the Virovitičko-Podravska County and Osijek-Baranja and Podravina areas, Bilogor, in order to economically connect Slavonia and Baranja with Podravina, as well as with Zagreb and the entire Republic of Croatia. I think there's more to be invested in that road, I don't see anything on the ground that's particularly happening and I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60292	Who is to amend Igor Czech MPs whom the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment number four of Branko Bačić's MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60293	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted with reasons. At the position of K2006 reconstruction, planning of roads on islands is planned according to the state of completion of the project documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60294	Amendment holder, Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60295	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, yesterday's proposal to amend the Law on Public Roads, the government sent a message saying that it was giving up building the highways, which is certainly the highway to Dubrovnik. Furthermore, as far as the Pelješko Bridge is concerned as the assumptions of the extraction of Dubrovnik-Neretva County from traffic isolation, I believe that the entire mandate of this government will pass, and you will not yet know whether this bridge is the best solution for the transport isolation of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County and you will still spend as much money on studies as on the one that has been completed, on the pre-study and on the already announced yet another study of the feasibility and justification of building the Pelješko Bridge just so much money on studies that we reconstruct the road through Peljesec. It is also well aware of your minister who was in Dubrovnik-Neretva County in the spring of this year and promised to resuscitate the Peljeka road on five shares, and the recovery of that road is necessary primarily for the reason that because of the Schengen regime in Neuma, much of the freight traffic is directed across the Peljeska road which is completely unadjusted. And my amendment would go on track to help Mr. Minister keep his promise and keep it, but apparently he didn't keep his promise this year either, and according to the budget proposal, there's no Mr. Deputy to reconstruct the Pelje road in the state island program. That's not true. See how much money there is in that position so you will see for yourself that this is not enough and that this road, the reconstruction of the Peljelj road is a state road that requires reconstruction and that there is no increased traffic caused by an increase in traffic given the Schengen regime in Neum space. So if you had accepted this amendment, you would have helped the minister who promised to do it anyway. This is how we are clearly told that this country road, which is life-threatening, will not be reconstructed in the next year. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60296	Who is the number four amendment of President Branko Bačić that the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment number 5 of the representatives of Bora Grubisic. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60297	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted with reasons. At the position of (2008) a programme of denivelation of road insurance, railway... was planned to fund the construction of a road crossing on the 423 State Road in Slavonski Brod, which is an underpass in Osijek Street in line with dynamic plans for the performance of works.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60298	Amendment holder Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60299	That's what you told me last year, Mr. Deputy Minister, year after year. So, the railway crossing in Osijek Street on the D423 State Road, which is passed daily by about 20,000 vehicles and which closes 60 times a day is a neural point, a traffic point in the City of Brod. The least nerve damage that people have because of that pruning transition, but your promises, in addition to that, and the reduction in the 2014 item, were predicted last year 68 million kuna, as I was now asking for an amendment. Now you've cut it down to 36 million kuna. With 36 million kunas, you can only perform the initial land work and move the communication of telephones and everyone else. So the Brodians will wait a long, long time. And this government, in which we have both the minister and who has given great trust to your Kukuriku coalition, has been very angry and angryly deceived. They'll appreciate it in the next election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60300	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60301	We're looking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60302	Who is the number five amendment of Bora Grubisic, who is not accepted by the government? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment number 6 of Representative Igor Cesek. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60303	Thank you very much. The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. The provision of road rail transport and the addition of safety elements of the bumpers, semi-defines and ramps is within the jurisdiction of the HH. It is located in their land, and the security equipment covers their regulations, and they also obtain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60304	Representative Igor Češek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60305	Here, Vice-President, here, as I wrote in the explanation of the amendment this railway crossing is, where there is a great frequency of traffic and up until a few days ago we had a mortally injured person he is extremely important to the locals of Špisić Bukovica and we are asking to be included in the budget of the state of Croatia because the municipality is poor and cannot finance a million-and-a-half kuna for the safety of rail transport and road. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60306	Who is the number six amendment of Igor Chesek, who is not accepted by the government? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment number 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60307	Thank you very much. The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. The shares of BETERMENT are defined by the Finance Treaty with the European Investment Bank, and it is not possible to add new shares.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60308	Amendment holder Igor Češek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60309	Thank you, Vice President. As I wrote it was a macadam road connecting two counties of Virovitica-Podravska and Požega-Slavonska, so from... to Velika via the famous Slavonian excursion site Jankovac, visited among others by a large number of tourists and Slavonia and Baranja, but also from neighbouring countries such as Hungary, Austria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what the Hungarians come as tourists on the Jankovac first sees is dust and a macadam road. I don't think it's a nice mirror of a beautiful tourist center and I'm asking for a vote on this amendment, and I'll tell you when you talk to the Prime Minister, say hello to him and ask him how your hand works.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60310	Who is the number seven amendment of Igor Češek, who is not accepted by the government? The amendment didn't get the required majority. I thank the deputy. I am finalising the debate on the amendments tabled and I am voting on the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Croatian Roads for 2014 and projections for 2015 and 2016. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find most of the votes, 79 votes in favour and 36 against a vote of consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60314	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment is not accepted. For the County Waste Management Centre, Lučino's distance in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, research papers and a study of environmental impact was carried out in the process of environmental impact assessment, and a package of documentation is planned to be prepared in 2014 to apply to the EU for the financing of an idea project, feasibility study, project application and tenders. The funding for the development of project documentation of the County Waste Management Centre Lučino distance in Dubrovnik-Neretva County is reserved at the item K2039 Waste Management.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60315	Amendment bearer, Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60316	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Deputy. You know very well what obligations the Republic of Croatia has made by the end of 2018 when it comes to waste management, that it is necessary to close all open dumps were legal, whether illegal and build waste management centres. It is true that all you said that the County of Dubrovnik-Neretva in the spatial plan defined the location of the future Waste Management Centre, it is true that an environmental impact study is expected. This is all so expensive and it is true that the County, together with the Fund, signed the Treaty on the Construction of the Centre in a way that the Republic of Croatia through the Fund has taken over its obligations, including the resolution of property-legal relations and, as a guess, the construction of that centre is the construction of the access road. In that sense, it was my amendment. Therefore, I do not dispute that the fund will finance both previous documentation and other obligations arising from the contract itself. But the necessary assumption of building this centre in order to apply funds to finance this centre in early 2015 is the need we are obliged to do next year. And for this reason, this amendment was aimed at providing about 15 million kuna from the fund's resources so that we could build access roads and thus complete the whole procedure by the end of next year and then apply. Moreover, in the fund's budget there are tax-listed other centres such as Piškornica, such as Bikarac, such as Marinšcina, such as Kaštjun. I don't see the reasons when this center is in such a high stage of preparation that it hasn't been specifically singled out at that position and these funds are secured. They're not... big, they're necessary, and I don't see why the fund didn't accept it, or the government. I demand the vote, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60317	Who is in favour of the amendment of MP Branko Bačić, whom the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. I thank the Deputy Minister. I'm closing the debate on the amendment. I am voting in favour of the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2014 and the projections for 2015 and 2016. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision has been made by the majority of votes and 80 votes in favour and 31 votes against.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60321	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, very short. You yourself know that the law on enforcement defines our incomes, receipts, expenditures, expenditures, at the same time the way and extent of borrowing, the level of State guarantees, public debt management and also the dedicated use of funds, incentive measures for the economy, and also how much debt units of local self-government can be owed. What are the basics I'd like to remind myself of? It is that the budget base is kept at the same level as in 2012 and 2013, it is 3326 kuna, and you know that it is used to calculate special fees under business regulations, which is child support, maternity support, maternity leave and payment of permanent rights of Croatian defenders. We also stayed with the same formulation regarding the restriction on the borrowing of units of local self-government, which is up to 2.5% of the total income of local self-government units, which is between 600 and 700 million kuna in total for next year. When we talk about the debt of the Republic of Croatia, then we determine how much we would be in debt abroad, and how much on the domestic market, up to 40.6 billion, which is the result of the refinancing of our debts of 31 billion, as well as the financing of budget deficits. When we talk about next year's debt then we must say that we have already achieved a pre-financing of slightly less than 10 billion kunas that will be used next year, and because of the assessment that the market is far better in the 11th month than we expect in the first quarter of next year. When we talk about the debt of extra budget users, then we estimate that they will be in debt of about 3 billion kuna, and also that they have a commitment to pay back the 1.4 billion kuna. It is very clear that one newspaper, not very pleasant, is that we clearly point out that in 2014 we expect more than 60% of GDP's total government debt to be estimated to be the height which is the reason for our procedure that we will go through in relation to the European Commission and that the Government, with special measures, is turning that high amount of public or state debt, and in order to stop these tendencies. We are also planning 5 billion kuna financial guarantees in 2014 as a guarantee of 434 million kuna. We also mention encouraging measures concerning investments in HBOR and financing of specific support through HBOR projects and also mention the amounts of assistance to local self-government units, as well as to municipalities and cities in the area of special state care. This is the most important thing that I can briefly present regarding the Final Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60322	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the HDZ Club, a respected representative, Ivan Shuker, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60323	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, the technical law that defines the way this budget will be spent, also which defines how local (regional) self-government units will spend their budgets. I'm sorry he doesn't have a colleague, Mrs. Gristle. For years, he assured that this article 18 should look different, i.e. That the borrowing of local self-government units should be more at the level. But as I can see from this current ruling coalition, the Kukuriku coalition believes that units of local self-government should not be given more than two and a half percent. Well, that's how it is. But I would move on, so what I think may simply be that some things are not being accepted in this law on the implementation of the state budget. First of all, I think of article 23, which says, "Government of state property since the DUDI Act is practically DUDI can't acquire any more assets, but complete assets go through DUDI." And I think it's supposed to be installed here in Article 23 so it's clearly defined. Because if we told it to the DUDI Act, then it should be installed here. And what we know very often here is who's to blame for this, here again in Article 23 and 24 mentions that the State's Attorney's Office is what registers the property of the Republic of Croatia. There have been several discussions here today about property, its non-use, etc. The majority of this property is unfortunately not registered in the possession of the Republic of Croatia. And that's something if an investment cycle is to be made, if unspectiveable assets in the Ministry of Defence are to be activated until what happens in the budget is done classically every year in Article 23 and 24 it will be practically impossible to do. But I'm saying, perhaps Mr. Minister just to look at this article 23 instead of the user if we already said that DUDI acquires practically all the property of the state, that instead of the user who acquired the property, it is mandatory within 30 days of its acquisition to submit a request to the competent municipal state attorney's office, to see if it stays that way or if it should be installed by DUDI. Because the user means practically no ministry based on existing legal rules can own anything, but owns the Republic of Croatia. It used to be the State Property Management Office. It's DUDI now, so maybe just because someone doesn't later make some kind of trouble to change it. Article 27 clearly defines how much government debt is planned next year, and I have no intention of having any political debates, but simply when there is talk here in the High House about how much debt is owed, how much public debt this article clearly defines how much power is given to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and, indirectly, to the Ministry of Finance, how much debt is due next year, and the financing account clearly defines what part of the funds are going to be paid, so that is the net funding of so on. to finance deficits, and how much of the funding goes to refinance loans from previous years and to finance some projects, and I will do so later on in the second article. And that's why when I say that when we adopt the budget, then we practically adopt all the numbers that we love to fight politically about very often. However, we in this High House have once given for or ever against raised our hands for those figures. And they can just add up and they are who they are. Maybe somebody doesn't like them sometimes, but they're here. They've led us to 200 billion public debt. Each one raised his hand for or against a different period. But I repeat, this article 27 clearly states that the minister, not the minister, but as prime minister of the government next year, needs to find 40 billion funds both on the international and on this domestic financial market. What I mentioned in my debate, and I think the Prime Minister made a mistake this morning when he didn't talk about the budget, which is Article 30. Because if we're talking about monetization, privatisation, cashing or how we're not going to call it giving in the concession of Croatian highways we're doing it to reduce public debt. Then it doesn't make sense if yesterday because of the deficit problem last year we realized that public debt would cross the share of gross domestic product over 60%, if today we said that and this is ultimately seen in the budget that during the following year there will be a cash-in of Croatian highways, then there is no logic that Article 30 says that public debt will cross over 605. Because if you say we're doing something to reduce something, then the logical thing to do here is to name 57, 58 or no matter how much. And otherwise this definition will be over 60%. It's not... and finally we know that we, Mr. Minister, are either better or to be 61 or 62, and we believe that if at the Ministry of Transport you said that these two laws would come that would define a different distribution of excise duties, that it would simply have to be seen here in the Law on the implementation of the budget of Article 30 that the effect of monetization, the cashing of highways, is that the public debt for which we said last year's budget was 60% that it would fall what I know at 57, 58, 59%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So clearly this Article 30 is contrary to what you said in the budget. But I'm saying it's your thing to do. See colleagues and colleagues in Article 32, usually this article 32, when a guarantee is to be given, he appears to be a Benigan. However, we talked a lot about these benign guarantees. This is, among other things, 9 billion of these guarantees given to Croatian shipbuilding, these are guarantees given to HAC, these are guarantees given to some other companies, so that these 5 billion could in some future be a potential increase in public debt. And that's why you can't simply go over them like something that's so for the simple reason where maybe someone for these or those reasons asks that a guarantee for a company has to know that tomorrow can be a potential debt. That's why I said, I was in a position when we shouldn't have issued a guarantee for three. May that the City Council of Rijeka decided that they would issue a guarantee even though it was neither in accordance with the law nor with anything. Unfortunately, however, the 9 billion kuna came today and increased the public debt of the Republic of Croatia. It's just that this provision isn't so defined. This Regulation shall enter There's something I don't understand here, Mr. Minister. The share of interest in the Croatian Bank's loan for reconstruction and development in 2014 is estimated at EUR 970 million. The paper where the table about the financing bill speaks differently. He says it's going to be 600 million plus 435 million. Now, if there has been a copy error here, if there has been a copy, then please either change it or change it, so with your amendment, change that this amount will not be 970 million but a billion and 35 million. Because that's what it says in the finance account. Article 36, therefore, is also an article that allowed units in the field of special care to breathe. Because in 2002 and 2003, all local self-government units in the PPDS area were blocked because all that income tax returns that were made by residents who were registered in those areas were returned from their budget, and their revenues were so and then the provision was installed in the budget. Now, I don't know how much this has been going on with all the changes that have been made because of this and how much it's aligned with now, given that the ranked units of local self-government are different. Is that going to happen next year and when some will turn out and some will fall in? Because this definition has remained exactly the same as it's practically being pulled since 2004. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All right, I'm just saying, just since I don't have those laws to look at, it wouldn't be later. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And Mr. Minister, this Article 38, so he's a copy of the Law on Profit Tax. Now, if the Tax on Profits Act also defines the Law in areas of special state concern, in fact, the Tax on Profits Act, then I don't see why it should go to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget when in lex specialis the law clearly states these completely identical provisions as in Article 38. Here it is, my colleagues and colleagues, I don't want to bother you anymore, but I just thought for technical reasons that these things should change, and also some things to point out that today when someone comes to mind that they're fighting what a public debt it is that we're depending on how and where someone voted for it, and someone voted against it, but I'm saying with all that vote we unfortunately came up with 200 billion kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60324	Finance Minister Slavko Linic will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60325	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my thanks for the presentation of the HDZ Club and colleagues to Shuker. We will really correct the article about the management of the property and that strategy that we have defined in the Croatian Parliament, which means that the management is transferred to the State Office for the Management of DUDI let's make it simpler which is a legal person and that we define it as a liability holder for the management of the property. Also, we will correct Article 34, so related to incentives in HBOR, and the exact amount is 1,050 billion. ... 1,050, that'll fix something. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's about the amount. As regards the articles related to incentives, these are incentives for 2013 not changed and will remain in the same amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60326	I thank Minister Linic. I thank all the colleagues who participated in the debate and those who did not but followed the debate. We will now interrupt the session and continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, that is point No. 10th in our agenda. Good night. We now move to the final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014, second reading, P.Z. No. 523. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the I am giving the Rules of Procedure the motion to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 115 votes, we have accepted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like the representative of Minister Linic's proposal to explain the government's amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60328	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The amendment 1 to Article 30(1) states that the words above 60 are replaced by the words ‘until 62’. In view of the fact that the previous formulation did not specifically establish the maximum share of state debt in GDP on the suggestion made in the debate, we accepted that we limit the total debt in GDP, which is why the government proposed that the maximum amount for 2014 be up to 62%.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60329	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected colleague, Ivan Shuker, appears. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60330	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased that, on behalf of the Government, the Minister accepted the suggestion to limit the number of amounts to which the share of public debt in GDP may be, moreover, the more this paragraph has changed in the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the State budget for 2013. However, what I would like to say is not on the soul of the Ministry of Finance but on the soul of some other members of the government. Yesterday we discussed the Law on Roads and discussed the Law on Croatian Railways. So, the Minister of Transport has repeated several times that in monetization, cashing, concession or what we will call Croatian highways go because Croatia has a large share of public debt in GDP and that this is why these Croatian highways have to, I say what they will do, have to give to someone else. And now I don't understand, Mr. Minister, whether your colleagues are putting you in an awkward situation because you, as Minister of Finance, must offer adequate documents both to EUROSTAT and to international financial institutions and that it is true that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Transport have repeated several times this year why Croatian highways built to Croatian citizens must be given to someone else for management that this is due to excessive public debt and that this public debt will be reduced. If so, if yesterday and this morning in this House we adopted and yesterday discussed that the Croatian highways in the following year take 40 limes per litre of gasoline, it is a clear message that this government intends to do so in 2014. And the logical thing if it is expected to get around 3 billion euros in that business, then the logical amount is that for that amount and the public debt of the Republic of Croatia will be reduced and then this percentage should be reduced, so that is something that is completely logical. If we add the yet announced sale of the Croatian Post Office and Croatian Insurance, then I really don't understand how it is that of the 46% of the public debt in the gross domestic product at the end of 2011. He's with all his sales because I repeat the deficit of the state budget you can only finance in two ways. Are you going to sell what you have or are you going to be in charge? And for what you're in charge of, that's a public debt to you. So, if the exact reason why we give Croatia highways to someone else to manage then the logical thing would be for these 62% to be below 60%, and then for you, Mr. Minister in Brussels, when we discuss with officials who take care of the excessive deficit would be much easier because then Croatia would have an excess of just one reference size and that is the deficit of the state budget while the share of public debt in the gross domestic product would be within those massive criteria, it is below 60%. If that is not true, if by cashing, selling, monetizing or what are we going to call it the Croatian highways we will not come into these frameworks, then the real question is why has someone been reducing the Croatian public for a year? Why one year he told the Croatian public that it must be done because Croatia has one high public debt. Why did someone take it as a right, again I repeat it wasn't you, Mr. Minister, but someone else, to say if we don't do it, Croatian pensioners won't get a pension. But we didn't do it, the only ones who didn't get something are Croatian teachers and teachers who didn't get transportation costs and overtime. That's why it's really not clear to me after yesterday's all-day debate in this House, so Mr. Minister maybe because of that, we agreed that the result of this budget is the inaction of the rest of the government and not the Ministry of Finance, maybe it was 58% or 56%, so maybe some colleagues forced me to do a certain act, so unfortunately you've all fulfilled what you have to do, but some of the others from the government would have to watch what they say because watch if the goat isn't lying. This is a confirmation that with the monetization and concession of Croatian highways, we will not significantly reduce the share of public debt in gross domestic product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60331	Thank you. We will now declare Amendment 1 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. Amendment 1 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia was accepted by 80 votes in favour and 33 against. I ask Minister Linic to explain Amendment 2 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60332	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Also in Article 34 behind the words interest and word loans, the guarantee fund is added for the reason that in the 2014 budget, we added to HABOR a special activity, which is to ensure exports and guarantee fonts all to reduce the risks of exports to Croatian economies, and then the total amount is not 970 million but 1070, and also, given the indicated failure by Mr Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60333	Thank you. I'm opening a debate that has again appeared on behalf of HDZ, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60334	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, in the debate on this law, therefore, I am looking at another document of the Government, which is the document of the financing of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year 2015 and the projections for 2015,2016, and I think it is a page 2 to the positions of 531 shares and shares in the main banks and other financial institutions to the public sector a billion and 35 million. That was why I warned when discussing the law that the State Budget Law could not cost 970 but a billion and 35 million. I'm glad to have HABOR's funds. However, here in the financing account it clearly states that what you have just said has been practically secured before and this lending is the position of ap440005 in the finance ministry through the founding capital of HABOR to encourage the export of economic activity infrastructure and small and medium-sized enterprises, 600 million kuna. Shares in the principal of other financial institutions 435 million. Now look, Mr. Minister, since it's a position in the position of the Minister of Finance, which I say is a book below the line and has no impact on the budget deficit, and since that's a billion 35 million then I don't know where we're going to get these 35 million to get to billions and 70. Maybe you're having a miscalculation or we'll make a deal again. If a billion and 70 million are true to agree to modify this document, so that's what came from the government of the Republic of Croatia, and that's the bill of financing the state budget so that this is the position of this 544005, or that's the position 5314, so that we increase them by 35,000 so that we have a harmonised size because if that's not the case, then unfortunately we lack those 35 million because we don't have any positions in the state budget. And I repeat this is so-called. The position below the line, and it has no impact on the deficit, but only the state will be in charge of a billion and 35 million to finance certain of these programmes. So here's the HDZ Club ready to go out to meet so we don't get to change one or the other now, or in the Budget Law to be a billion 35 million, or here to raise this poor amount so that we have both the two documents that we have in common. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-27-0.u60335	I am voting on Amendment 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. ... Please, please, let me run the session. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We have an amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we're going to make a statement about it. Who's in favour of Amendment 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that this amendment has been accepted by 79 votes in favour and 32 against. We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Implementing, I'm sorry, we must now declare ourselves on the final proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. So I ask who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. We've passed this bill with 79 votes for and 32 against.
