ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39939	My colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're going back to work. We will discuss - Final proposal of the State Support Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 364; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Vice President Reiner wants his word, so I give him my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39940	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The HDZ Club is looking for a 15-minute break in the state graduation scandal that took place when the Croatian language exam that was scheduled to take place today was postponed because three schools were divided into exams instead of essays yesterday. We find it inadmissible what happened and we want to talk about it in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39941	Is anyone else looking for a word? Ten minutes. [[CONTINUES AFTER A MEETING IN 9,48 HOURS]] Before I give my word to Vice President Reiner, there's only one notice. In this apartment, the clubs agreed to conduct a united debate and on the next item of the agenda. And that will be - Final proposal of the Law on the Transparency of Public Funds, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 371; and here is the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And that's where you took the bill into the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Yeah, and the clubs agreed to discuss clubs for 20 minutes. An individual debate will take 10 minutes. And now I give my word to Vice President Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39943	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, as I have announced, we believe it is necessary to speak here in the Parliament of the State Prom scandal that took place yesterday. We believe that what happened yesterday is really inadmissible. The graduates, as well as their families, are extremely bitter. They have been delayed and the learning plan has been disrupted, and in one period of great expectation, tension, moments that are very important to these young people, they have been disturbed by the learning plan and it is a major problem not only for graduates but also for their families who go through this stressful period of graduation together. We believe it's a shame what happened to the entire school system. The graduates have to prepare themselves for these exams that depend on their future for months. They're terrified, they're waiting, they're worried, and then from one dry announcement the day before they find out that their exam they've been preparing for will be another day. Let us not fool ourselves that will certainly affect the success of many of them at graduation. At this point we do not want to call anyone responsible, we do not want to look for the culprit, we do not want to politicise but we hold that it is undoubtedly a system error because it is simply amazing that in three different places in Croatia in Split, Đakov and Senj, so completely geographically far away from each other, the same mistake happens. We won't call it that, however, a minister who, every few days, takes place in a system of education, science and sports run by a scandal. We hold, however, that, instead of dealing with, for example, Mamic, whom he told him to spit in his face or insult the judges of the Constitutional Court and commenting on the Constitutional Court's judgments should deal with what should be his basic tasks, which is education and education. And it's obvious he doesn't do that. We, but the entire Croatian public, want to know what will make this, repeat system error not a random event, correct and never happen again? It is also regrettable that we have not heard an apology from anyone, from either the minister, or from anyone other than the brother-in-law of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. We are seriously concerned about the functioning of a school where such system failures occur. And we absolutely understand the anxiety and sense of uncertainty and helplessness not only of the graduates but of their parents and entire families who experience this psychological trauma together. I draw your attention that this is not just about 30 thousand students, of which 12 574 high school students and 17 234 vocational school students, 5 500 candidates outside the regular education system, so over 35,000 young people, but it's about a much wider circle of people. Because most of them have both father and mother, many have grandparents. So we're talking about over a quarter of a million Croatian citizens that this event has hit pretty hard. How much patience, how much expectation, how much disappointment for more than a quarter of a million Croatian citizens. We think that the least we can do is talk here in Parliament about this irresponsible play of human destiny and I am expressing again on behalf of HDZ my concern and dissatisfaction with the situation in the system of education and education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39944	Thank you, too. Well, I think everyone in the Parliament is interested, all parties and all clubs, in getting the prom going in perfect order. I think there's something else we can do about it in the course schedule so the graduates don't get damaged. Three coordinators, as far as I know who's to blame for this, have been removed from their duties, and therefore the consequences have been withdrawn. Of course, no one can be glad it happened, but that's also what you said yourself, it's impossible to link the government's or the minister's responsibility to the three coordinators' error. We're moving on to a debate. Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39945	On behalf of the club, Mr. Chairman, what you've done is precedent. You simply don't have the right to comment on what a Member of the Academy Reiner was saying on behalf of the HDZ Club. He could have called your club and he could have commented. You, as chairman, must withdraw to comment on the representatives' performance. I'm asking you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39946	I only agreed with what Professor Reiner Vice President of the Parliament said. We are moving to a debate on the united two points of the agenda. I'm asking if the proposer's representative would take the floor? Yeah. Boris Lalovec, Deputy Finance Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39947	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There are two laws before you of the Proposal for a Law on State Support and the Proposal for a Law on the Transparency of Public Assets Flows. Both laws are EU law means compliance with EU directives. In short, I will talk about the State Aid Act, so this law has been made to adapt to the new circumstances, as we know from 1.7 we are members of the EU. What is important in this law is that the most important jobs so far carried out by the Competition Protection Agency or a shortened AZTN which has generally approved these support will not be able to do so more than 1.7, but by granting support is being transferred to national level and the EU Commission is now directly in charge of the approval and control of state aid. However, the AZTN function will also remain in that part of it, since they have had the most experience and best staff in that part in the advisory section, so that this law regulates the new responsibilities of the Croatian authorities means in the state support system AZTN. And the novelty is also much stronger to include the Ministry of Finance. So, as I said, AZTN is given an advisory post to state support providers, giving an opinion, harmonising the state support proposal with the acquis, and reporting proposals for EU state support to the Commission for approval. So AZTN will continue to communicate with the EU Commission. State aid providers may at any time request the application of their EU proposals to the Commission for the purpose of obtaining approval. What the Ministry of Finance is involved in is due to fiscal constraints or to the monitoring of the fiscal impact of state aid such as so far has not been the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance to conduct State aid policy established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a three-year period in the form of guidelines where the Ministry of Finance will monitor and support in the form of fiscal constraints. State aid providers will also be obliged to receive the Ministry of Finance's opinion on the compliance of these state aid plans. I would briefly say that the existing system of state aid in the Republic of Croatia, which was approved from 2006 to 2011, was 57.2 billion kuna of state aid, of which 21.2 billion kuna was used to support agriculture and fisheries. In that period, although a large share of money was coming from the state budget, the share was reduced, it was 2.38% in 2006, and somewhere in 2011, it was 1.46%. What is important to say is that this structure of state aid granted was unfavourable because it was mainly brought to sectoral support that was around 85% in 2006 and was reduced to 73.9% of some 74% and mainly these state aids were granted either in the metallurgy, railways, shipbuilding and transport sectors. So they went to this part of sectoral while these horizontal support which is considered to be minor distortions of competition amounted to only 14.68% in 2011 and these horizontal support were granted to the highest extent in the area of small and medium-sized enterprises, research, development and innovation, and were partly targeted at employment objectives. The remaining part of the support was somewhere around 11% related to regional support and support from local and regional self-government individuals where 8% were somewhere regional and 3% were local self-government units and we hope that in the future these regional support will change with about 8% should go towards 20% of EU standards where these EU funds for structural funds will definitely be used more, so that regional support and for the development of certain regions should be much more important than that of sectoral support today. As you have seen, however, a large amount of support is the day when you now look at the structure of industry in particular in these sectors you see that there are still major problems in these sectors and in the transport sector and in the shipbuilding sector and in the metallurgy sector. So significant funds were invested through state support, and the effects of such support especially when the crisis came proved not enough but still these sectors show significant shortcomings and problems in their business. However, what is certainly important to emphasise for state support is that it will continue to be possible through state support, for example, to grant services of general economic interest such as Croatian railways, Croatian airlines, Jadrolinija through coastal and linear transport maintenance and connection with islands. There will still be the possibility of granting these support but these support are not resolved by this law, because this is a general roof law on state aid but is resolved by the Law on line and coastal transport if it is to protect the national interests that are related to or related to the integration of the island and also cover those non-resistable lines between the island. The same applies also to air or rail transport where they have certain non-performable lines will still be able to be provided in this part of the support, however, in a much clearer and transparent manner where they will be but this needs to be resolved by their sectoral law, not by this roof law, the State Support Act. What is very important is that we hope, in fact, that this part of the Law on State aid will be changed by entering the European Union and that this structure will be more applied to these horizontal support, such as in both the European Union and these regional support, and sectoral support will actually receive a smaller share. But the sectoral support we are dealing with today through restructuring and all the companies that we find today in these areas and transport and railways, which means we are solving the Pre-departure settlement law where there is actually a good one modality of solving structural problems sectoral... problems because so far it has proved that no matter how much money has been pumped into that part of the sector and it has proved that the effect has not been in the end even though I say there was a will to actually help these sectors. Also, what is important and... the effectiveness of these support... until today let's say we have not yet established one such system because it is necessary to monitor how much money we have given to a particular sector, and what it is really like to benefit from and as regards employment and, in fact, the overall effect of these aids, so that now, in the next period, if certain money is actually given, it should be given and benefits and that is, the effectiveness of all these support. This is what we hope to resolve through this government's state aid policy that will take place for a three-year period. Regarding the Law on the Transparency of Public Assets Flows, there is also one law that relies on this State Aid Act. It is also related to the harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union in which Commission Directive 2006/11/EC is transposed from 16 November 2006 on the transparency of financial relations between Member States and public undertakings as well as financial transparency... of certain entrepreneurs. It is important to say that this directive has been implemented so far, has been translated into Croatian and published in the form of a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on rules on support in the form of financial transfers between public enterprises. However, that was the moment we were still in pre-accession members where we were not actually a full member of the European Union. By actually entering the European Union into the Single Market, we actually need to upgrade this law in this part, and therefore this decision, we are now actually proposing a law to actually establish these mechanisms, simpler money transfer mechanisms from the state to public enterprises. It also means public authorities in relation to public entrepreneurs, means entrepreneurs in the majority ownership of the state and to entrepreneurs with special powers who are given such special and exclusive rights of exercise of activity. What's important here for these companies that are actually going to be controlled by this money transfer is that they have to lead, so not to talk about some new accounting again now, but to talk about separate accounts which in a clear and transparent way in their business books might mean what money they got, and to say in which, it's actually very simple and encrypted... and the encryption of the source actually determines where in these separate accounts in the form of business books it's visible the amount of public funds flow and those funds are actually spent on. What's important here is that through such records it means to introduce a much better transparency of the use of that part of the money. What is important is which entities are excluded from the obligation to apply the law and the CNB and public credit institutions when it comes to the deposit of public funds by public authorities under normal market conditions, and those public entrepreneurs, undertakings with special powers whose annual business income is less than 40 million euros. So those who have less than 40 million euros will not have to lead in this way let's say separate records where these money transfers should actually be controlled. Entrepreneurs who have received these funds are obliged to provide information to the Ministry of Finance on these funds by 31 May of the current year for the previous financial year where, in fact, the Ministry of Finance will be delivering such data to the European Commission at the request of the European Commission as well as the directive. It is also important here to say, ultimately, that the implementation of the law strengthens and actually implements the principle of sound financial management, especially in accordance with the principles of economic, efficiency and efficiency of funds. So the two laws that are general and roof law which are in the area of relations between the state and the companies where cash flows are actually defined, where one clearer and more transparent way and spending and obtaining is introduced, that we can, in fact very quickly in this House tomorrow, present the means to which businesses were going, how they were spent, and I think that in this part of the transparency of public spending, public funds is a step forward in fact that we can discuss the real effects because these are still the money from the budget of our taxpayers to know, in fact, what conditions, as it is spent, what return efficiency is. So, in fact, these effects can be measured more clearly and perhaps redefined in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39948	I thank the Deputy Minister. We've got two lines reported. First esteemed Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39949	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, you said that according to the Law on Transparency of Public Assets, the company will have to keep a special account. So, according to both the Croatian accounting law and international accounting standards, you can spread your analytical accounting to the smallest detail and thus keep a complete record of what you are talking about. However, this, as you have stated in the law, is what rebuffs me and it would like you to answer me on behalf of the debate on behalf of the club is a special account. According to the Law on Payments, a legal person can no longer have an account, he can have one account through which he operates, and these are all sub-accounts. So this simply needs to be clearly defined, if things don't clearly define themselves then we're going into chaos again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39950	The deputy minister responds to a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39951	Thank you. So here when it's spoken, there's no double or triple again or I don't know what accounting is. So there's this, like you said, according to international accounting standards, there are ways of recording money flows. But it only matters transparently means connecting it, so when you get it from the market or from the state or when you get state that you actually have a record actually when you get that you can very clearly separate it into transparency. Here all the time it speaks of transparency, and in fact by regulation we will actually define and communicate with public enterprises in which the exchange of information will actually be more detailed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39952	The second line is represented by the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39953	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, you've come here nicely, said our goal is to become more transparent, especially, the spending of state money, which is very important and very important because we know that in Croatia it is very difficult to monitor how public funds are being spent. You always have to have an investigator who can find how and how that car works. And it made me happy to hear something like that, and then I'm a little worried when you say right after that that we're going to be passing some other laws that will then define how public support is going to be shared to public enterprises, so it seems to me that somehow we're directly contradicting ourselves because we're making laws that trigger new laws and again some games, games where it won't be possible for ordinary citizens to see how and in what way they slaughter, they're spending state resources. Here's my wish and purpose for it to be as you said it would be, to be all public and transparent. But I think it would be time for us to once pass a law that won't require the adoption of new laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39954	And this replica corresponds to Deputy Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39955	Thank you. Maybe I got it wrong. So these laws already exist, so those laws that define that part of the support. What I was actually going to say is that when you give some money and when you give it to the sector, to the sector, and when you look at their efficiency, and that's why we said here, it's about transparency that you actually know tomorrow that the government actually knows in what direction that a certain part of the money is actually going to be able to reroute depending on the efficiency of spending these funds. So that's the part I was thinking about. So, not some new law. So, that can be easier to manage because this could be one management tool if you invested 20 billion in a particular sector that you know actually tomorrow if, in some five-year period, you knew how to redistribute funds to that part I thought for transparency, easier management of public money, rather than some additional laws, but only that part of the money is more easily and transparently redistributed into certain parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39956	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. In that case, we open a debate. The first is the respected Ivan Shuker, who will speak on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39957	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. Well, there are two laws ahead of us that should be done as the Deputy Minister of Order says, who's been a mess so far and who hasn't known what it was yet. However, what is crucial and what is not said for the simple reason that the first step in the application of these laws is good, which is that in recent years we have difficulty talking about support, we can talk more about subsidies. And it's just that when you see this amount of support and someone tells you that over the past years, 30 and so many billion kunas of support, and here it's not agriculture and fishing, then it seems like a hell of a lot. However, when you take just two segments, look at how many of you have been in the position of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Development since 2004 towards the Croatian Railways on average about 2, 3 billion, 2 billion 300, 400 and multiply that by 7 or 8. Here you are in an hour at 18 billion kuna and the rest of you up to 34 billion kuna was mostly going to shipbuilding. So, I think it's time before we pass these laws to get our name off something. However, about this very law, one might say that it is technically and correctly made and there is nothing to object to. The EU directives are like this for you and we have adapted our law here in three segments. We have clearly defined what AZTN should do in the future. It is clearly defined what the Ministry of Finance should do in the future and clearly defined what the support provider should do in the future. However, we have here, and I am also saying this from some experience a series of outstanding and unresolved issues, which is primarily what we had here yesterday's Report from the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. What will be the future treatment of these projects and programmes that the Government is funding, in fact, government programmes financed through HBOR, and here we can talk about both sectoral and regional and horizontal, everything and everything there is. So that's one of the questions no one answered, and why? Because every year, from the budget to the core capital of HBOR, we allocate 600 million kuna and more than that in all recent years, the government has not once withdrawn profits, and since this is by law the revenues of the state budget, and in a certain way someone will tell you tomorrow in Brussels that it is support, that we understand each other. So that's what this law isn't told. The second thing that should also be said is that all the funds practically until the entry into force of this law given from the state budget were practically the means for the restructuring programme, at least they were to be used for it. However, since 1.7, all of what we call support so far and from 1.7 it should really be and not be called no more restructuring support but will be support for competitiveness. And now the key question is whether in Croatia the beneficiaries of the support are ready for this transformation, whether they have been restructured, that tomorrow these money they will receive from both the state budget and the money they will receive from the European funds is being used as means to increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. It's a big question that we all have to imagine, because if we were willing to use these funds for competitiveness then we probably wouldn't have this number of unemployed today, we wouldn't be reduced by employment and we wouldn't have a drop in economic activity. It's just facts. Because when you look at this year's budget, you have no funds to the economic sector. As far as the law itself is concerned, he clearly defines the position of AZTN and would not agree with the government's representatives if AZTN had lost practically all of this. AZTN if you look a little bit better the law is a key factor throughout the story because if AZTN does not give you the green light you can practically not get to Brussels, if you reach Brussels you do not have the green light red light you will get in Brussels. The Ministry of Finance does in principle what the Budget Law should do to support providers and therefore report to the Ministry of Finance. You have the law that when you pass every law, when you give any money from the state budget, it's something that's been in effect for seven years you've had a fiscal impact assessment. So anyone who asks in any way for money based on a new law or anything in the state budget is doing that famous pattern of fiscal impact assessment and based on that fiscal impact assessment they have had to do for seven years. So here we regulate what two institutions have been doing that have done their job correctly in recent years. But we don't define what's key, the ones who supported why it wasn't done so far because there was a legal basis. Because if you have this famous PFU pattern (Assessment of fiscal impact) then it is illogical that someone who gives that support has not reported the effect of this support and that someone even for some kind of support appears several years in a row. So we have a law defined some things that unfortunately, and that's what might be missing from this law, we're support providers just counted what they need to do, but here is the key role of theirs. I'm sure the Ministry of Finance and the Competition Protection Agency will do their job entirely. And if that's the problem, this is exactly what you have when you look at the order then in the law, you have a problem with something. Article 9 and 10 of the Agreement provides for the role of AZTN and Article 12 of the Financial Ministry's opinion. AZTN can't do anything practical until it gets the Ministry of Finance's opinion. Then if you look at it logically, whether Article 12 should be Article 9, and Articles 9 and 10 would become practically Articles 11 and 12. And the logical thing is if you have a supporter, if the Ministry of Finance gives its opinion and then based all these papers and complete paperwork to say AZTN finally gives its opinion, then it would be logical to set it in the law. And not to talk about what AZTN is doing, and then we say that AZTN is doing the foundation of the Ministry of Finance's opinion, and then in the article behind, we're talking about what the Ministry of Finance needs to do. So one proposal to the legislator to replace it, and then the one who reads the law will be given in principle the order in which steps something needs to be done to get support. Because this is the way if you jump from article to article and you go back to creating some confusion. In addition, State support and data delivery records at the Ministry of Finance in Article 14. If you have seen in the law it is said that the state should do so to say one general strategy of support and on the basis of that in principle when planning the budget each budget user asks and this House when adopting the budget, then in principle and defines how much and what support we have. Finally, the budget is the strongest lever and the strongest tool for economic policymaking. But the question is raised, and this is what I do not understand when you look at article 16 of the reporting deadlines are not in line with the deadlines attached to the Budget Law. Because if you in the Budget Act have to submit a report to the Ministry of Finance to the Government, the Government has to adopt a report along with that report, and I have to go through the State Audit report, then I don't understand why two or three months of state support providers are supposed to send State Support Reports if they can't change anything in principle. Because what the State Budget Report is about is finding out the facts that happened in the spending of state money last year. And the logical thing would be that, as so far as we have been with the State Budget Implementation Report and the half-year report on the use of the state budget, we have a report on the state guarantees given then it would be logical that, with the State Budget Implementation Report and in the Report on half-yearly implementation of the State budget, we have a report on the spending of state support. For the simple reason that when you discuss the report you can use this Support Report to compare whether these figures agree with the positions of individual ministries, agencies or offices, and, at the same time, you can apply the basic provision of the Budget Act, which is the place, time and program use of budget money. Then you have everything in one place, you don't have to hunt papers, you don't have to fight politically, you just have all the data. And that's the analytical parchment I was talking about when I was talking about the transparency of using public funds. I find it illogical that the terms for the Support Report are in one total disharmonic with the terms of the State Budget Report. Because what I've already said repeats the question of what can the supporter do after a State Budget Implementation Report is made to change? It can't change anything. It is only an individual segment defined by law and which is very important practically simplifies it, puts it on a special paper so that someone can see how much use it is and then eventually it goes along with the report on what the effect of these support was, therefore, whether that support was spent and whether its purpose was what it was. What is missing in this law is what I say is properly technically done and there are no objections to the units of local self-government. What treatment is the support that local self-government units provide? And perhaps Croatia's biggest problem is that we have various support at the level of municipalities, cities and counties and so is the same story with social policy. So that it should be united, if there is support for something, then it is also such support if someone gives to one of their utility companies some means by which he acquires a prerequisite for doing business with it to be more favourable in a competition than a private company. Without that support, you probably wouldn't get that job. That means it's not a fair game automatically. So much for the Support Act. Sometimes it is not good to slave only with EU directives, Croatia has its specificities, Croatia has its own problems and be sure that many state-owned companies, and I will talk about it in the other part, will be very difficult in the future to function without these subsidies, I will not talk about support. And that the story of the Croatian Railways has not since yesterday been one project with the World Bank since 2005 when it started in the restructuring program of the Croatian Railways when it was the so-called “World Bank”. The employment ratio was 2.85, and it is to you that on every earned kuna that Croatian railways had to earn from the state budget of 2 kuna 85 that they could have so to say clean, simple reproduction so that they could pay their material costs, salaries and that they could invest something in the development of railway infrastructure. And at the end of the construction of infrastructure is the obligation of the state, not the company itself. So unfortunately, the programme cares and I don't even know what the working ratio is, but today I know that the funds from the state budget according to HH are smaller by about a billion and a half kuna than they were in 2008 or 2009. So what about local self-government units? Let's not let anyone call us tomorrow that we haven't defined the law, or if we're going to apply this law to them in some way I think we need to see what to do with it because you can't say that municipal companies working with local self-government units are practically privileged at this point. And let's not let anyone tell us tomorrow and shove it on our noses so we can't do that. It's better if we have to do it ourselves. And as for this famous Law on the Transparency of Public Assets, I honestly, with the best intention of reading this law, have not found the meaning of the adoption of this law. This law, if you look at it, is passed for three companies. Three companies, HZ. HZ Cargo, Jadrolini and Croatia airlines and that's how much money from the state goes to public companies. Only three public companies, since shipbuilding is now practically in the resolution phase, are getting money from the state budget. And no one in this assembly is against seeing clearly how much money HZ gets, why he spent it, how much money did Croatia have, which is very attractive at the moment because of the unions and how much money he received from Jadrolini and what he wanted to achieve with these coins, because the application of this law to all other entities in Croatia is negligible and, in principle, the law should not do so at all. But what I asked the Deputy Minister to answer me, and unfortunately he didn't answer me, and that's how we're going to take both Jadrolini and Croatia airlines and HZ because it's the same story to record if they have some lines that are unprofitable, which the state finances for reasons that they can't survive because if they funded these three companies, then they would be in fat losses. How will what happen when one single-line ferry that is non-profitable is transferred one weekend to a line that is extremely profitable because it's a big crowd, how will it be bookkeeping? Where the depreciation and costs of that ferry will be calculated, which receives subsidies and may even have received subsidies in the purchase of that ferry, do you have any ships that Jadrolini has purchased for reasons that the state has been able to maintain a series of lines that could not be maintained by them. but it's all about the Croatian island resuscitation project. It's not a project that remembered someone, let's go now we'll have so much and so much. And you now when you look at the most frequent lines towards Hvar, Prama Brač, according to Solta, we can talk about that ferry line from Drvenik to Korčula in the summer, but you also have a ferry that drives to Vela Luka and then goes on to Lastova and Mljet and if you don't have that ferry we can forget about life on Lastovo and Mljet in two years. Just like it's gonna be with Visa? What about the islands in the Zadar archipelago and that ferry that goes at midnight? We dragged those tourists to the islands for reasons that they could come to dinner in Zadar, enjoy parties in Zadar and at 12 o'clock with the ferry back to the island that they were. How are you going to factor that out? It's something that's problematic. And when I spoke in accounting, there is no special account but is spoken to analytical management of both income and expenditure. And then exactly for each line you have to determine how much support there is. This is done analytically on the income side, also on the expenditure side. But here we have Mr. Deputy Minister one big problem, which you'll have with the blue diesel. The blue diesel is about agriculture ok because the support in agriculture and fisheries is not controversial, but since this year we have given blue diesel and liner carriers and this blue diesel is used by line carriers on lines that are quite cost-effective. But we need to be aware that it will cost us far more if our concessions are picked up by some private companies that are going to be forced to say so on the lines that are profitable, which bring money, and the state will have to co-finance lines that are non-profitable and that will never be profitable. But lines that literally mean life on Croatian islands, lines that literally mean life on Croatian islands. And that is why, as simple as this law seems, as simple as it seems, we want transparency because I think that no one in Croatia is against transparency and that no one thinks of rebelling against any of it to clearly see where money is spent. However, we need to see what the intention is and what the ultimate goal of these funds is. Who will come to Zagorje and say that the booze is lifted on that line and on that line. But simply if you go by this logic you'll have to end it at some point, it'll be gone. Croatia Airlines, so Croatia Airlines did not fly some lines because the directors said it should fly but because someone told them from some lines in the region to some lines within the Republic of Croatia and even some for political reasons. But you have by law if the owner of the company, there is thought of units of local self-government or state of someone who is practically ordered to make a decision through their bodies of management, which is the Assembly and the Supervisory Board, to do something below the price if at the end of the year a loss is achieved, with that basis the owner is obliged to cover that loss. It's just facts. Therefore, this law can be very dangerous, it can be very harmful and I don't think we're ready for it yet. We are based on analytical leadership, Mr. Deputy Minister, able to keep track of the use of funds, but I repeat this law has been passed only for three companies and this law can be a danger for both Croatian islands and some places in continental Croatia where rail transport is concerned, and ask what will happen to certain airlines according to Dubrovnik because Dubrovnik is traffic-insulated if the subsidies to Croatia Airlines are lifted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39958	It's replica time. The first one will be presented by the respected Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39959	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, you said this law was technically well-prepared, that the procedures were well-prepared. So every law should be, but not only well technically prepared so that this one is, but what's in most of the economic policy and this one is missing is actually a fundamental analysis of why they serve state support, which is the effects of state aid, which is expected of it, there's not a word about it. And why is there no, because support is one instrument that intervenes in the economy, the state intervenes in the sphere of the economy in order to achieve desirable objectives, in order to achieve greater production, higher employment, greater net exports. What has been achieved for years by state aid in the Republic of Croatia, none of it. The support sectors totaled 25% of production and 50,000 fewer employees today than before. Is that the point of support? In economic category, they call it a barren economic policy. So I have no doubt that the law will be technically determined, but there will be no effect because if support is used by those who make profit, and not by those who need to play a national role, then it is a missed policy. If more diesel fuel subsidies and less farmland are given in support, then it is a missed policy. There is no systematic analysis of the impact of state aid. No one has ever done that, and tens of billions of kunas have been put to ruin. Not even a basic one, which is employment in these sectors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39960	The replica matches the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39961	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As a result, I said that the key thing in this technically well-made law is that one who should be the most responsible, who should be monitored, which should practically be in the place where the support is spent is least processed because we in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia already have 7 or 8 years defined that the supporter must do his impact assessment. However, three things are crucial, and that is what the Government must bear in mind, is that in the past we had no support but subsidies, that these subsidies should have gone as a programme to restructure these companies and prepare for the competition, and that these aids, which, unfortunately, someone will now limit us in the future if he thinks we're going to do some things that don't fit him, serve competitiveness, is a key story. And these laws apply to only three companies, they were the biggest users of it, and the question is whether tomorrow we'll be able to maintain what we have in this way. That's why there are some questions here on behalf of the club that the promoter is trying to answer us just so that it doesn't happen, because we can't just skip over the night into something. The question arises how many of us through pre-accession funds, how much through all this money from the budget have we prepared both state-owned companies and private companies for the competition tomorrow. It's a key thing, and that's why AZTN and the Ministry will do their part of the story, finance. The question arises as to how many support providers are aware of what this law adopts. It's a key thing. By law, seven years ago, they were obliged to do what the law now says. Therefore, the PFU form under the Budget Act in the Republic of Croatia has been available for almost 7 or 8 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39962	The second line is respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39963	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, dear fellow Shuker, I replicate the part where you said that through the proposal for a law on transparency of financing suggests that only now is transparency being introduced into the financing of particularly public enterprises and you have listed Jadrolini, HZ and so on. We've had it before. Competitions for ferry and shipping lines are under way throughout the Adriatic, and I am afraid that this is exactly what the bill will call into question. Why? Because so far there have been certain frameworks within which they have been sought means in tenders a certain level of support so that one of any lines on the Adriatic could be auctioned at all. If we introduce this kind of special account on each line, I'm afraid that those lines that are cost-effective, such as Split – Supetar where the Republic of Croatia has helped the Republic of Croatia to make two marjan and Croat ferrys through certain credit arrangements, that this line through a special account will become unprofitable if all the obligations that go on these loans are passed on to it through a special account. So far, this has not been done in such a way, and the main problem is actually at the level of support, or as you said we called it a shipowner subsidy that last year was 390 million kuna. This year 355 million kuna for all lines on the Adriatic, and this resulted in what happened – catamarans raised 50% for all who wanted to come to the island and are not islanders, they did not have a residence on the islands, they collected over 100% on certain ferry lines again, I say for all those who are not islanders, and the islanders themselves who have a residence on all lines except those who are held by private boaters have accumulated over 12% because somewhere they must compensate for 35 million kuna losses. And that the government does not know what it is doing shows the projection of the 2014 budget where it is returning support to these lines again from 355 this year to 385 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39964	The replica matches the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39965	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, Boric, that's why I did mention that this law is only for three companies. But the worst of these three companies is the most vulnerable areas in the Republic of Croatia. So, when it comes to railways, many of the most underdeveloped areas in the Republic of Croatia are practically the only ones in the continental part of the way to reach the centre, and the lineage on the Adriatic coast is what with new lines, with subsidisation and prices through the purchase of ships that will carry out this line of transport we have led to the fact that coming to these islands was a cheap, especially life for islanders who at the subsidized price could come to the mainland, do what they need, from doctors through some administrative matters and argue that they will only be resolved to see where the money came from in a transparent manner. Well, every line is run analytically accountingly in every company. If it's not done then it's not serious. So you have to know how much it costs that ferry line with all the costs for the simple reason that whoever does it knows in the next competition how and under what conditions they will report for that line. But I repeat, that's where the game will open. And I know that a colleague from the Ministry of Finance will say that this will be settled by some other law. However, this other law cannot resolve it without money. And you have lines that will practically have to be subsidized with almost 100%, because otherwise there won't be, people who want to live on Lastovo and Mljet will disappear again, again people won't want to live on Vis or on some other islands. The question is, what happens to tourists in the Zadar archipelago if you shut down those 12 o'clock ferry? So that's all that's part of saying the competitiveness of Croatian tourism and it can be far more dangerous than those funds than if you'd left the VAT rate higher in catering, and you used those funds for Just one more sentence. [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you very much.]] Subsidisation of liner transport to both islanders and guests.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39966	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected Igor Radenovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39967	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here are a few words on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club on these two laws. So, listening to the debate so far, we come back a little bit and forget what we have actually taken over as an obligation to join the EU. So, with 1.7, we are also obliged to accept the rules of the game, primarily the rules of competition that are certainly applicable to everyone in that Union. And on that side of the line, we come to a big market where we simply have to act by certain rules, we can't take some things, and some we can't take over. That's why this other law, so on the transparency of funding, is practically just transposed. So far he's been in government decision, now he's been transferred to law. Therefore, there are no solutions, but good. This topic in the Assembly is discussed every year through the AZTN Report, which was drawn up by providing an analytical representation of state support in the Republic of Croatia and all these years, according to the methodology used in the EU and all its Member States. On that side, the subject isn't new to us. In the good part, it is new, so for many users support the primary units of local self-government, I agree with my predecessors that we will have a lot of problems here now with accepting the firmer rules of the game. But as I said in the opening words, we simply decided that way, and we must go that way. Therefore, this law which is practically a step further and its adoption clearly defines the responsibilities of the Croatian authorities in the area of state aid... The Ministry of Finance and the remainder of the role of AZTN and the procedure preceding the approval of state aid, the way in which the records are kept and the delivery of the Support Report shall be regulated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore crucial to determine what is considered state support and what is not. It is therefore of paramount importance to bear in mind that there is no uniform definition of support in the EU, but in any particular case it must be known to assess whether the funds channelled from the state budget, the budget of the units of local self-government, some fund or even public-owned entrepreneurs as aid to another entrepreneur, a group of entrepreneurs or a region of state support whether it is or not. By passing this law, we are expected to have a much tighter game rules than the previous ones, and we are all aware of that. We cannot escape from this responsibility, and the powers of approval and audit of support are transferred from AZTN to the European Commission and it is therefore extremely important that real and potential donors are as well as the users of the support to be informed of what awaits them. We must not forget that from the first day of EU membership for the area of state aid and in the Republic of Croatia, the provisions of Articles 107 and 108 are starting to apply. The Treaty on EU financing and the overall acquis in this area, which is more than 50 different regulations of the European Commission and others, are here institutions. This includes, of course, European courts' decisions, etc. Most of these regulations are published in the Republic of Croatia, but not all of them. This is a very demanding area, therefore, it is therefore necessary that, in fact, it is good that this law also provides for a significant role of the agency, I agree with my predecessor Shuker, the role of the Competition Protection Agency remains in this law and is important as an advisory body, as a sort of centre of excellence that has been built over the past few years, and it is therefore important to promote and know-how important this part of the legal gain for the functioning of the entire EU market and for this smaller part, and for us, the most expensive part. All this is, therefore, in order to improve the system as much as possible of the effectiveness of support as possible, but also to avoid risks so that both Croatian donors and state support users are less likely to be under investigation by the EU authorities and less likely to be exposed to a return of support. According to the Support Report, in the last 10 years, the European Commission has ordered about a little over 12 billion euros in return for these aids. Although it is a return to the budget of the Member State itself which has unlawfully granted support, it would not be good for any support user in our country either today or tomorrow when we become a member of the lawless or unlawfully used support to become a returner for support, as this would have very serious consequences for many. You know, in the case of a Hungarian air carrier and some others, which basically caused the current problem, the current bankruptcy of these companies. Given therefore today's support structure in the Republic of Croatia, it differs quite differently from EU and EU standards, and it best speaks of, in fact, although given in good faith that in a good part of our support, they did not go in the right direction, they did not lead to restructuring. They have led to less productivity and less employment in many sectors and money has gone to the wind somewhere. So 30 billion with HZ said the predecessors didn't do a lot of things all these years, we ran away from some decisions and restructurings that were actually necessary. Therefore, the share of support in GDP in the Republic of Croatia is significantly higher, incomparably higher 4-5 times the size of the EU countries, and is particularly concerned by the introduction of a representative, Deputy Minister, so that three-quarters of these aids, although this number is falling but falling relatively weak, is allocated sectorally while only one quarter refers to horizontal purposes. It's definitely the other way around in Europe. Since horizontal purposes, horizontal support is far less disrupting the competition, which is certainly one of the basic postulates and the reasons why the EU itself exists. The trends of all new members were therefore to approach horizontal support from sectoral support. That's what's gonna happen to us. One significant part remains, therefore, about the negotiated aid in shipbuilding, but as I said in the coming years, we will certainly get close to both the structure and the level of support and bring them closer to those in other EU countries. Fellow Members and colleagues, as rational as possible and as effective as possible, the use of public funds is a fundamental objective of every government. Whether the former governments have shown themselves in this regard, whether many decisions of action and inactions have been in the right direction, we are likely to feel the consequences of this today, and we will feel for a whole number of years right in these major sectors of road construction, rail transport, etc. However, EU rules as rigid, strict and bureaucratic as they may be, I firmly believe that they can only help us to target state support funds right where it is most needed and where long-term economic growth is most effective. The predecessors spoke before me about, I didn't answer for the replicas, but to take the opportunity, around the HBOR. And so far, our development bank, which we praised a lot about yesterday, unfortunately I could not personally be present, but I looked at the debate later, so even so far, the HBOR programmes have not been realised for at least the last years without the support of AZTN, without their opinion, and it will also be worth the same when the programmes will therefore be approved exclusively by the European Commission. So we have, in some ways, achieved quite high standards, and we do not expect any major problems. As for so-called liner transport, primarily in the Adriatic Sea and the like, the deputy minister replied. So it will be regulated by sectoral laws. It could be a joke, HDZ has been very aggressively promoting this tunnel connection of islands and shores in recent days, etc. Although I haven't seen my fellow MPs at these presentations, if we have such a good solution, then we may not need a direct transport about all this. But a joke aside, it is an important and serious problem that will be dealt with by sectoral law. As far as local self-government units are concerned, Mr Schucker's representative on behalf of HDZ had the right, so far, to avoid even a good part of locals practically avoiding regulation, to avoid reporting about it, a lot of this has caused the local self-government unit to be in trouble because of a lot of irrational and inefficient management of available funds and through its utility companies, so that this implicit debt, which could quickly turn into an explicit debt. We have cases in some major cities in Croatia, let alone some other units of local self-government. Therefore, in order to remove these shortcomings, the primary objective of this law is to systematically formulate state aid policy, strengthen transparency, and the word is probably the most frequently said here today. The stronger role and responsibility of the Ministry of Finance on the basis of whose proposal the Government of the Republic of Croatia will adopt State support guidelines for three years, and this policy will certainly have to follow the EU's state support policy but also guidelines and fiscal and economic policy, and be based on proper monitoring of the effectiveness of the aid granted, which, unfortunately, has not been the case, given all these technical problems, I am not too professional in this area, but I say for various reasons primarily short-term political opportunism, all governments so far have missed quite a lot of opportunities for restructuring and, as I said, we have a lot of problems on this side today. What might be good to think about here is now we've talked a little bit in the benches, so the reports come to the Ministry of Finance necessarily to the government's united reports sent to the 10th month but only to the government, somehow there's a Parliament kind of avoided, so maybe Mr. Deputy to think about it, probably maybe the amendments to the clubs we've talked to within the ruling majority to think about still the Parliament isn't being avoided even though I say it will be with a shift of about a year. I therefore and firmly believe that, based on the powers conferred on the Ministry of Finance as a central body, and also on the very important roles of the Competition Protection Agency as an advisory body of the Centre of Excellence, as I said, and on the basis of the measures and duties prescribed by this law, we will go a step further and, for state support providers, we should very quickly reach a single system of planning and granting state support to their maximum effectiveness. I believe that's our goal. As counterpart Schuker said, this law is technically good at implementing I believe that we will also make a maximum contribution and the SDP's Advocacy Club will support the adoption of these two laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39968	Thank you. We have a report of a respected colleague named Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39969	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You said that local self-government often had problems and that they were in an awkward situation. I'm going to say that local self-government is still having problems today, and they're particularly having problems right now over the last year, because the funds that are determined at the state level towards local self-governments, according to which I don't know whether they're changing from communal companies or some of them from day to day. Even in official documents, competitions at the level of local self-government are carried out, labourers are selected on the basis of such decisions but are then changed unilaterally by means of means of these decisions to reduce resources and in principle lead to a very awkward situation of the company at local level. So we can't say they had problems. They now have a lot more problems than they had before is a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39970	Igor Radjenović corresponds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39971	Yes, Mr. Hrg, I agree with you that companies are having problems today, but the good part of it is and that's why I was talking about it in my debate that there is a very important education in this field. And from the report that we've received so far from the Competition Protection Agency, that's exactly what's been pointed out as a problem of not remembering exactly now, but almost half of the local self-government units have simply disobeyed the request... to inform them of what and how they've given these support, and there's the authority to say something bigger than the Ministry of Finance probably in the future to help on one hand. On the other hand, it will likely work internally to say a kind of internal stabiliser because people will make decisions far easier and better after the information they receive. Unfortunately, at many levels, a lot of major investment has easily entered into many major investments in the municipal field, I say something about big cities and a lot of small cities, and they will come into serious problems precisely because of decision-making. If there were a little more communication with the central authorities and the Competition Agency and in this respect, it would probably not have entered into a good part of the projects. Not to mention you're waving your head off and not to mention the strong let's not have a transparent relationship in all of this, not to mention that famous word and corruption at the local level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39972	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club, the respected Srdjan Gjurkovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39973	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. So, on behalf of the HNS Club, of course, I support this law not because it is in line with the EU acquis, but because it is also extremely important in previous discussions, not because of the very change in the procedure, jurisdiction, additional transparency, the introduction of efficiency checks on support, but because it is related to the direct use of both the state budget and the local self-government units. And so far, debates and I have to refer to these discussions have made it clear that so far the support in a segment of the subsidy has not been in a way that is essentially managed by the budget or by the resources of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This law bests it at this time because it is in line with the most qualitative not directives but experiences, and then with the implementing acts that the European Union is harmonising with Croatian legislation. And the overall goal of this when we talk about support is to clearly repeat it is essentially to be focused on development, on employment, on innovation, when we talk about islands there are lines, on balanced development. So all support must be focused on improving citizens. And when we talk about that sectoral and horizontal, it is quite clear that there will be a lot of sad problems about it because so far it has not been approached and, of course, to reverse one trend it will take time, and we at least hope in the club of the HNS that, in addition to compliance with time, learning, education, which we are also discussing from this booth, will not be paid in a way that we have to repay the funds we have given, the support, or those who gave it. Surely, on the issue of state support, it will be much more quality because this whole series of years has been constantly improving this way. AZTN has absolutely done the job well so far, it has no longer played that role, as we see there is the European Commission, but its role as an advisory, educational, as support will surely remain important and crucial, and I believe that on the matter of state support there should be no problem, except because of the process itself and jurisdiction it will probably take a little more time. But if we know that it takes a little bit more time to approve certain support to enter a particular project, then we have to adapt ourselves, and as it is also stated in the proposal of this law, which is that the Government will give guidance, that the support policy will be given and that it will be defined through an economic policy in line with European policies, which means that regardless of the length of the procedure itself, that is, by quality planning no one should be supported on this subject should be harmonised, it should not be denied, because if the whole support process is prepared in a quality way, if it is known precisely which, and in what way, there is no problem for these support to really come where they need to, I repeat for innovation, for employment, for that regional development and sustainable development that is crucial. It should also be pointed out that it is visible and we are clearly indicated that by the end of 2013 new criteria, higher standards, are being changed in the European Union, they are essentially stronger criteria that should be in terms of support, and in function I normally repeat and develop and work and science and research. Therefore, this law, which we are now harmonising and raising to the level of functioning when we are a member of the European Union in a month, will be submitted with new directives by the end of the year and a new law will be proposed. In what way and what, I believe that the Ministry of Finance, or our representatives in the European Union, will inform us because of this planning and guidance that the Government must provide in three years' time, is also important for those users so that we can prepare as high as possible on this matter. When we talk about the transparency of public funds flows, it was mentioned that it was one of the most important things, which is analytical management and spending of funds, the opening of a separate account by activity. I believe that, on this point, the bill can be read as a single account, which will only be used for a seat of funds related to certain aids, i.e. subsidies, in order to monitor the use and use of these funds as clearly as possible. And of course, according to this segment, it is extremely important and useful and quality that they can be monitored on both lines and on all of what is used for or provided certain support or subsidies. It is precisely to monitor the flow of money in order to know quality, but it is certain that it is also for companies receiving these funds, which have received the support well so that they can have quality analysis by, as fellow Shucker mentioned, ships or by certain lines to behave as best and rationally as possible. So both laws only raise standards, standards of public spending, standards in a way that the funds cannot and will not be used as it has been known to happen very, very often, and that means ineffective and in the end, we have had considerable damage. If shipbuilding had taken care of its effectiveness, then today we would have a completely different story, today we would have had a more efficient shipbuilding that would have survived probably without privatisation, and maybe it's one of the key examples, the largest, which means the efficiency of the state's resources. This law prevents any further political manipulation of funds, and all those who need to gain support for innovation, for employment, for development, for sustainable development will certainly receive those funds in particular because the government will believe prepare them in an adequate manner and guidelines and all procedures to make this right in time and in real realisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39974	Thank you. On behalf of Croatian Labourists – the party of work will speak to the respected colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39975	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. If I am not mistaken, the first State Aid Act was adopted in 2003, then the second in 2005, which is said in the opening part of this text to meet the needs of the pre-accession period. It is probably meant to be formal-legal satisfaction because in the present period the most support has been shared in the metal sector, railways, shipbuilding and transport. What a state these sectors are in right now, I don't think it's necessary to explain to anyone that practically some of them are already shut down, and some of them, even if they're not on the best track for it. The law obviously wasn't meaningful. He may have said, or stated, in his opening part and been satisfactory for the needs of a pre-accession period. But when we look at the purpose, or effect that has received the results that are, I don't think the law justifies its existence, or its results are nothing. In the opening part, it is still mentioned that there is no high-quality record of state support, but no efficiency. That just explains it, that just proves what I just said. Because if the continued efficiency of the investment was monitored, i.e. state support, I believe that at least some of these branches that I have led forward would be in a far better situation. The Government adopts this proposal for a law, the Government shall adopt guidelines for a three-year period, and I do not know whether any other regulation or elsewhere states that it has any obligation at least to inform the Parliament about it. However, let us be honest with the conduct of the rulings we are already used to, so I hope that today when they come into the position of opposition, they will not say that this is a non-democratic law because they have proposed it themselves and voted it themselves. It is commendable in any case that order is being introduced into the support system only I fear that for most of those we have already cited it is already quite late. I primarily think about the parts of HZ, I mean the Croatian airlines, I mean here at Brač airport, I mean the whole agriculture or the part that, primarily the part that deals with dairy. Now it occurred to me yesterday that my colleague Maric mentioned here and the State's Attorney's Office. And he mentioned, quoted if I wasn't wrong about an article in the Constitution that found that the obligation of the State Attorney's Office was to protect state property and state interests. I think I'm pretty much making sense. Judging that in these since 2005, practically state aids have been practically without some efficiency control. I think the State's Attorney's Office should have found it appropriate to react that at least if nothing else checks the legality, but also how truly protected the interests of the Republic of Croatia are throughout that story. This is how I think that the state money, or support, the means of supporting that very often went, was directed at things that had nothing to do with what was actually meant to be done with state aid. Today, it is mentioned on several occasions, which is in fact the real objective of state aid, including retaining jobs or creating new jobs, developing a particular region. I'm sorry there isn't a colleague from the IDS here. They were not long organized, i.e. they were present on a round table concerning Croatian railways, i.e. the termination of HZ Carg traffic on Istrian railways, where the instructions are that it is a loss of jobs and in quarrys, because the quarry will no longer drive the railway. But given the cost of transport and the value of the goods, it's invaluable to drive it in trucks. On the other hand, if someone is forced to use trucks for truck transport, it is transporting local roads that destroy these roads again. So what my colleague Shuker was saying is the right thing to do. I am sorry that in his term of office, that is, during his power which he did not use as such, because the consequence of everything is not only that I do not know the financing of a non-performable line regardless of what the carrier is talking about, but it is also a matter of retaining jobs in a local community. The thing is, if you're going now, I've taken this quarry as an example, there's an orphan quarry. It's already closer to me. It's about destroying local roads. In that case it is, it is a significant item for local self-government units. These are all the consequences of this one move that is sometimes, I don't think it is, someone doesn't have it long in some media that our Ministry of Finance or, specifically, Minister Linic often acts as a cashier rather than a macro-economyist. This looks the same to me now. We'll practically get into a situation we go, we'll co-finance a single line that's inconclusive, and what else is profitable we'll give in concession. So then we're actually creating this one line even more inconclusive because the one that we could make, the one that was rentable on those lines that are profitable, we're losing that income, we're giving it to someone. I don't understand what logic leads us to make such decisions. Isn't it a whole interest, isn't it an interest that I don't know the whole region, the whole environment, the islands, that it can live off what it has. This is how we earn income, which we give to a private, public-private partnership or some other form, and what will result in a clean loss, and what can ultimately be the migration of villages and those parts that are neglected as if it's not our problem, as if it's none of our business. Today it is said that, one of the speakers, even I think my colleague Shucker said that instead of supporting restructuring that this is actually now, so far, some of these support, that this should be support for competitiveness. Since HZ is as close to me as it is to me, then I'll mention HZ. To whom can HZ be competitive, or public operators in HZ who can be competitive when systematically, we can say 30 years, the remaining investment? With a rolling stock, which is an average of 40 years old, with rails on which the driving time is, say, 3 hours to Rijeka, you come by car in 1 hour. What, what kind of competitiveness can we talk about? If on the weight of the railroad, I don't know anyone mentioned the Zagorje railways, the Zagorje booze, if there's a speed of 30, 40 km of what kind of rentability, what kind of competitiveness can we even talk about? You need to be honest and say it's all expensive systematic. It's not necessary to determine the ok now that the last HDZ government is to blame. That's not true, she's one of the culprits, but for 30 years that segment has been totally neglected. We can't rebuild it overnight now. I came up with information to say I even spoke to him from this pay phone that in Germany, the population stands out 300 euros annually for the railway system. But for the system that's been restored, for a system that's modern. We now have a situation that we want to be not to say competitive to that same system, and we're investing I don't know about the head of the population about 30%, 30 times less. As far as this second law is concerned, I think the same colleague Shucker said that the law practically applies to only three Croatian airlines, Jadrolini and HZ Cargo. I'm asking the question, okay I can say it makes sense, I need to monitor the transparency of money that's not at all my part disputed. But let's be honest if one of these companies makes a decision to buy a DEOKI track record for allegedly paying the workers of DIOKI, I'm aware of that at some crazy price it's really out of my mind if I'm not mistaken 17 million kuna was at stake. A colossal worth one, two million kuna. He's making a decision on the basis of whatever I'm not going to say, but I'm going to say, "I'm going to have to buy this colossium," because that's what we need to do to keep it going." Now that same HZ Cargo goes bankrupt. Now that same HZ Cargo is going down. Is there a responsibility now and is this a public transparent spending of public money? Is that it? If, for example, one of the companies here mentioned professional services is making the text given to the Market Regulatory Agency, this text as instructed by the Director must be delivered to the lawyer's house, the lawyer's house only puts its logo up and directs it to that agency, its logo service, the transfer of the entire text to its own memorandum charges 100 to 150 thousand kuna. These are the people who were appointed by this government. Is that part of the transparent spending of public money? Does anyone question these people's responsibilities? I didn't really see anyone ask that question. I will also remind you of the story about Croatia airlines when it was getting food supplies for a higher class that was empty when the workers referred to, all MPs received this letter from the company, when the workers referred to the problem, the problem of obtaining the paprinjaki which nobody lives or wants and who never wants to take them again. But it's, well, it's true. Is Croatia in trouble, for example, is that part of the problem? No one asks the question, and it's the same transparent spending of public money. And since we have been using this transparent spending of public money, I am taking the opportunity to remind myself that in February if I am not mistaken last year as a club of representatives, we have proposed a proposal for a conclusion on the restriction of the use of funds in legal persons of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and local, regional (regional) self-government and public institutions. At that time, we warned that money between other companies and public enterprises, spending on donations, spending on non-performing practically, so let's be honest with each other for the purpose of promoting individuals who were at the head of these companies, and then we got the reason that it was not a good proposal because it is in the interest of those citizens who get back to using that money and using populism. Since we've explained what we're trying to achieve with this proposal of conclusions, and now that you're looking at what we've got on the table today, or what we're discussing today, I'd like to ask those same people who then called us populists, which is a larger form of pulsism than these two things? Yes, Mr. Jelusic was directed to you, you said last time about this proposal of ours that it was populist and that it was for daily political purposes. But I can see that you may not have come across yourself, but the ruling coalition, the ministry, that there's something healthy, good in populist too, that maybe we should use it. It's just a healthy and advanced idea now, and when they come from our side, it's populism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39976	Thank you. So we've exhausted everyone we've ever reported for a club debate, so we're going to continue with an individual debate. The first in line is the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39977	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Deputy Minister with an associate. Probably at least the old ones remember that game called "The Chain of Happiness" which was one of the greatest delusions that has not been sanctioned or investigated by today as it is not sanctioned in Croatia by 99% of crime. Here we should talk about the chain of guilt and responsibility when it comes to support. Just before it was said here that there is no analysis of state support and that is, in fact, the key to the whole problem, I think that's what my colleague Maric was talking about because why there is no analysis of state aid? Because it would be an analysis of failures, failures, would actually be an analysis of the newer Croatian trenches. You remember Ovrovec and Glinica in Ovrovec factory Glinica. If we reduced 20% of the production in the sectors we supported, if we fired 50 thousand workers in those sectors, what did we support? If we support from 2004 to 2011 agriculture with 20 and some billion kuna, and now we produce far less milk, far less food, we import more and more food and bad food, more and more landlocks especially those of the small declines in the country, what did we support? Have we done an analysis of what we've been supporting all these years? On the other hand, are we when we decided to support ourselves and when we talk about these three activities, when we talk about shipbuilding, when we talk about traffic, about railways have we made a strategy? How can we support something without having a strategy of what we want with the railroad, what about the railway in Zagorje? As Mr. Novak said earlier, how are we going to support the railroad and make it competitive when we get to Rijeka by car in an hour, and by train 3, 4 or 5 or to Čakovec by 3 hours we ride a 100km train? Who's gonna ride that train? Well, no one but those who really don't have money will have extra time. And, of course, we're throwing money in the well. All this comes down to one more date on one self-deception, and in human nature is self-deception. Remember, you've always bought a Swiss apartment, you've seen that after seven years of paying off, you want to get your bank apartment back, the bank says you can get your apartment back, and you have to give another 50,000 euros. You see, you've made a mistake, you've made another 10 things, but it's the 12th month, and it's New Year's Eve, and you're looking forward to something changing. It won't do anything, it'll just turn the clock, the clock, the leaf, we'll rip one out. That’s how we deceive ourselves. Like a 1.7 now, everything will be fair. We haven't done any analysis before, we haven't wondered what we're investing in, but now 1.7, the word of honor is now. What changed in Bulgaria and Romania? Nothing's changed. Are they in the EU? They did. I read the other day a statement by European Croatian officials fulfilled everything. It's not. Here is exactly where we didn't meet it, we're not according to ourselves. So what are the effects, the main question, what are the effects of all the support we've given? 57 billion kuna we provided support from 2004 to 2011 that's half of Croatia's budget, and we have fewer jobs, we have no turning back than to say almost the collapse of shipbuilding, railways that will slowly close the railway line because it has an old rolling stock, because the railways are unusable. The only thing we know is we've got extra workers. We say we support transport to the islands. Which means, it's the same thing, that I don't get misunderstood by islanders because I travel to the island a lot each year, it's the same waste of money if we don't invest in islands, if we don't build schools on islands, if we don't build hospitals, if they don't have young perspectives, if we don't open new jobs. That's when the islands serve us only for those 2-3 months of tourism. Again, I'm talking about just investing in boat lines to the islands without being guided by a very big worry about everything on the islands to ensure that the islands live for all 12 months, as well as throwing money into the well. Of course, we help the islanders with this because without these lines, it would be impossible to live. But we haven't made a strategy, we haven't said how much money we're going to give in return. It was a matter of responsibility whether it was bothering anyone with support, whether there was corruption. If someone's muttering, those who provide support, not those who receive. It was often talked about when peasant protests talked about how much support some peasants received. Did anyone ask these peasants after a year to report how much they produced, for which they spent their support, which is the effect of support in agriculture, which is the effect of shipbuilding, which means for all those co-operatives in shipbuilding. And what we finally got, we got in the end to fight for what-the survival of the shipbuilding, we beat up billions of kunas, someone would say we're paintd or free we're made. What awaits us by joining the European Union is ourselves, we ourselves, our conduct, our character, our authority, and we here in the Parliament. If we do not change, regardless of dates, the European Union will not force us to change ourselves. As I said, there is an example of Romania and Bulgaria that by entering the European Union there, something has not changed significantly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39978	We're moving on to the replicas that are five. The first in line is the respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39979	Thank you very much. Comrade Vuksic, you mentioned the economic analysis I spoke about in the previous debate. Once at the Faculty of Economics, economic analysis was the most important college, and today it's not even in any college. It's no wonder. Without economic analysis and without clearly set objectives, without clearly defined general and national interests, no measure should be taken, let alone the law. What was wanted with support in the Croatian economy, no one knows, except that the support even served as a social disassembly. Some of them got a lot of support and they got rich. While shipbuilding was squirming in problems, co-operatives are the richest in Croatia, and 2/3 of total revenues from shipbuilding went to cooperatives, and they only worked 1/3 of all jobs. Olives could plant and receive support in Slavonia even though it cannot succeed there. Tomato can get support in person if it's planted. We don't know which cultures we need to produce, which production we need to stimulate, we wander. We'll come back like the '50s. After World War II, when we were forced to grow cotton and grow cotton, it proved how devastating it was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39980	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39981	Dear fellow Maric, yes, what you mentioned about economic analysis that is not available at the Faculty of Economics. I think I have information that I may have already mentioned here in the Croatian Parliament, 60% of humanistic sciences have been done at American universities. You think it's random, you think that economic analysis doesn't happen at the Faculty of Economics, that someone's got an economic analysis thrown out because they think it's too high or that there's no one actually, that there's no one to analyze, that we're lame today, that we're without tools. What you mentioned, yes, I was also talking about cooperatives, meaning the shipbuilding that fell, which is on its knees and cooperatives that are rich, exactly. Many cooperatives have become rich, but all the time we've been providing support, and the support is from the shipbuilding weekends, we haven't seen some people pick fat money, more and more workers get fired and the shipbuilding gets lucky. Looks like no one was interested in that. That's why I'm saying that those who were supporting them were supposed to do those analyses, not the cooperatives to do the analysis. Cooperatives saw their chance and took their chance. And so if we don't start from today, not from 1.7. I think the fate of support without an analysis of professional analysis is actually going to be another extension of agony.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39982	Replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39983	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, I do not agree with your finding that investing in subsidising or supporting liners is a waste of money in a well as you said because it is not true and this country really makes an effort to try to save life in these rural areas not only islands but also on PPDS and also on mountain-mountan areas and for that there are special laws. In the past 10 years from 2004 to 2012, more than 3 billion kuna and 300 million kunas have been invested in this system, most of which took Jadrolini, and you need to know that like ZET in Zagreb, a public carrier carrying residents from one end of this city to another, that it is made by Jadrolini, small boaters and private boaters on the Adriatic, that it traffics 53 lines daily, as fast as the ship, which is ferryable and that all of this costs, that these people live harder on islands than everyone else on land because they have an additional cost. And of course the state has to subsidize it, and if it did, it shows statistics, the census where last time in 2011, we recorded an increase in the number of inhabitants on Croatian islands by 7 and a half thousand, and that is a great result for me, regardless of what it is trying to dispute because it is said that 100,000 people live on the islands to whom it is even important. But it is a very important segment of the Croatian economy. We have over 300,000 beds on islands that are highly competitive in the most important Croatian economic branch, which is tourism. We certainly do and we pay just as much as everyone else does what we have to do in the state budget. The least he can do is help that life on the islands survive, and the easiest way is through support, and we get it through the Island Law. That's why your sentence is completely missed that it's a waste of money in a well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39984	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39985	Dear colleague Boric, it is your right not to listen to the essence of normal and to plant it, because the first part of the sentence you remembered, the second part you did not remember. I said right away and after this second sentence that these support were help to the population, that there wouldn't be life on the islands if there wasn't such support. But to make this support much more effective, we take care of schools, hospitals. Take a stenogram and don't turn your head. Hospitals, to open up new jobs. Yeah, then that money would feel what we're giving that money for. Far more than he feels today. That's exactly what I was talking about. It seems that you are more in Zagreb than on the island, so talk to the islanders to see what is bothering them on the island.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39986	Replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39987	Dear colleague Vuksic, here I will fully agree with my colleague, Boric, in his replica, about throwing money into the well, and I will repeat that what my colleague Boris said about the Zet bus or tram in Zagreb is what Jadrolinija or some private boatman is quickly boating on the islands. It is a normal part of life, quite one normal where citizens and citizens of the island of Brac, Solta go to work or children go to school in Split. Just when we talk about the efficiency you agreed on, then I have to tell you that it's much more effective to go with fast shipping lines to Split in school, than to build schools and grand sports halls, then there's absolutely nothing out of that efficiency because there's no one in those schools, or absolutely ineffective building them in the way that you predicted investing in the economy, investing in everything, and basically without calculating what and how. The island's economy obviously exactly in a way that we have provided them with previous and this authority with the possibility of living normally and being connected to the mainland and, of course, it is never enough and should be improved, but it indicates that both the economy and the demographic structure, unlike some other parts of Croatia, is positive, it indicates that in terms of throwing money in the well and only mentioning such expression regardless of all the fences, brackets and quotes, is completely inappropriate. Because on the island, it's really working and it's going to work normally, it's going to work normally, it's going to work and it's going to live. But I say and note all the data indicate that this results of life on the island prove it. Of course, it's never enough and you should still work on it. But your throwing money into the well is absolutely not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39988	Thank you. Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39989	Well, of course I didn't talk about it that way, that's what I'm talking about. First of all, you can see from your replica that you want to boost the line and get as many people off the island as you can. You wouldn't be building schools on islands, because my God, why be an island school, because you should go to Split, you should go to Zadar, but you shouldn't say high schools on those islands that have enough capacity to be bad enough, that there is a high school and you don't mind that high school in Losinj. Tell me which one you calculated, which one you did, which one you did about the islands, so you presented here in the Parliament to speak so explicitly. You've caught yourself a well. I argue, once again, that these support would be far more effective if we had secured everything we needed on the islands and what we haven't done in decades.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39990	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39991	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here's my colleague Vuksic, in some way, when we talk about support and help, always somehow everyone touches agriculture, villages, rural space, and you in this part of it, even though I have to agree with one good part of your debate because we now have laws that can be implemented, and now it could be controlled, now it was clear exactly who was getting what it was, where the support went just because we didn't implement it. I hope that this future law will finally begin to be implemented by one and the other who will be voted on, perhaps under the pressure of the EU. That's the essence of our problems. And it is not good when we here generally speak and attack a particular area, under quotes "attack" such as the Croatian village and Croatian agriculture, or even this thesis of opening new jobs on islands, building schools and everything else. I think in the support part, we need to think about what they're meant for, and that's what you're saying. And in one part of the support must be designed to preserve life. And in that part, it's easy to put them together. Shipbuilding was allegedly given to preserve jobs. The village was given not only to increase agricultural production, I see it differently, but also to preserve life in the country. And in that part, we should look at it, and we should not get into that part of it once and for all, and always put that village and Croatian peasants on some pillar of shame and a pillar of shame. So let's really throw out your data once, let's see who manipulated, who didn't manipulate and what the effects were. The effects must have been much more positive than these now that there is no support. So, in the last year and a half, we have crushed the village when we had to increase support for EU accession.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39992	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39993	The esteemed colleague of the Hrg actually agrees essentially on this. I'm going back to what Mr. Maric was saying that, you should do an analysis. No one, at least not me, I'm not putting on a pillar of shame and I'm not picking up on the country. If you heard the line I said those who were supporting them were supposed to do the analysis. In what way? They should have made the criteria for how to give. Today is less agricultural production, at least it's the peasants. The wrong system of support should not be abolished, which should be given. We should invest in what, the two things that are most important and that's agriculture and tourism. Well, then this bribery of wanting to not know the evil of the islands is completely unnecessary because I haven't talked about it at all. Yes, it is important to preserve life on islands, it is important to preserve life in the country because it is a assumption that someone is involved in tourism, that someone is engaged in tourism on islands, or that someone is engaged in agricultural production in villages. 'Cause if it doesn't, we're gonna lose what little we got. Therefore, an interesting sentence that you have said is increasingly being used, which is what we are going to implement under the pressure of the EU. That's the first, seventh magic I'm saying self-deception. We're going to have to do something, what's going to pressure us into the EU, we'll probably respect that because we have to. And it would be much better to respect Croatian laws for our own sake. The other day when we talked about some law, I don't remember any more, I said here that it was another dead letter on paper because most of the laws in Croatia don't even respect those who write the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39994	And Mladen Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39995	Thank you very much. Well, I kind of keep going on with my predecessor, also around agriculture. You mentioned that it was the responsibility of the supporter. Its responsibility is to monitor support and maintain order in that part. I agree with that, but there's still a detail to be provided that I don't think is irrelevant, which is a kind of media lynch. Think of any protests of peasants. The most common comments were but look at those tractors they're driving. What's the value of those tractors? And nobody puts the movie back a little bit so they said it was capital investments that practically foreign banks were involved in, and foreign banks were lending and getting interest and mortgage loans, so now the country is already questionable regardless of this seven-year non-sale provision of agricultural land. And besides, these funds were used to buy foreign products again. So, to keep foreign jobs. And now that you look at this support system that is related to this case to agriculture, it really was for the purpose of preserving jobs, not in Croatia, but I don't know... Not from Croatia, FEND is not from Croatia, I don't know... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] is also a well-known Croatian firm. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So keeping jobs was clearly about, though, not ours. All this time, we've been having this discussion, I think it's just been a metallurgy. One good, good example of support for metallurgy is Željezara Sisak, which unfortunately no longer exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39996	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39997	That's exactly what I agree with what you've concluded to be Mr. Novak whose jobs have been preserved with support. Which we actually supported. Foreign banks have stimulated that agricultural producers buy tractors that they certainly did not need on their holdings. But did the state make an appointment at that time? Is it supposed to be the state that was supposed to do the analysis again? What that production ring exists in all neighbouring countries is said to be able to process so many and so many agricultural areas as well. Did anyone do that analysis and eat the advisory bodies at the service of the peasants? I'm sure they didn't, and that's what we failed to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39998	We're continuing the debate. A colleague Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u39999	Dear Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We can see that the debate on state aid is very harsh, which is not surprising given the importance of the state support they have had so far, and which they will have in the future. When we look at the data from previous years, we see that state aids are total in all forms and all segments and they ranged from 7.8 to 9 billion kuna and that's a huge amount of money that went from the budget and of course they matter. On the other hand, EU accession is subject to conditions and if good is not done, there is a danger that the entity that has received them should not have returned them and will then come into even more trouble than it would have been if it had not received them. That's why it matters. This law adopts except that compliance with EU directives and practices brings a number of news that are an important improvement in existing practice and existing law. So far, for example. the State aid report was submitted by the Competition Protection Agency, and the agency would say no onions smelled or determined how much money would be given to support, to whom they would be given, and even less how the funds would be spent. But here she was reporting not because it was such a legal solution, it was not the agency's fault but had such a task. It is logical that the report is submitted by the supporter, who is responsible for the support policy, and therefore it is good that this law is finally put into place, so that the support report will be pooled by the Ministry of Finance, submitted by the Government and the Government of the Parliament. So the government here will report to the Parliament on how much support was spent, and that's good. I'm afraid that's not how it's been so far. And not just how much money they spent, but how much money they spent. So far, there has been no legal obligation to submit a report on the effectiveness of these aids, but simply a statistical set of data to which they were given and how much funds were given. It's two important quality newspapers in this law and that's why it's good. The last report we had here on state aid was for 2011 it was the last year of the HDZ government and its coalition partners and these support amounted to around 9 billion kuna. A lot when we look at with some other indicators it's about 2.7% of GDP, in the EU it's about 0.6%. This was about 7, 7,5 percent of the total expenditure of the state budget, so I'm saying it was huge money, and that's why it's important where they go and how they spend. On the other hand, we had one absurd situation, large funds were issued in one way or another for support, and those who received support were dissatisfied. To them, they often said it was insufficient. We had a really absurd situation, on the one hand we supported far above the average of the countries surrounding us, and on the other hand those who received rebelled to get little. Both agriculture and shipbuilding and HZ and others have all had certain comments. So it's an absurd situation. To us many or all who must give it, and those who receive it were few. On the other hand, the results were and this is what finally this law will create assumptions that it is changing to discuss the efficiency of these aids. So far, huge funds have been given, and the results have been completely different. Neither we had more ships than we had a few years ago nor we had more agricultural production than we had a few years ago, so neither segment had any better results. Therefore, support that, but they must first and foremost result in that economic branch or that company being more competitive but also resulting in higher production, more goods produced and not as it has so far been the case that this was not the case. So we turn out to be paying for not the production and the work and the work needed to be installed in order to achieve this increased production rather than vice versa. So I said the ships were not produced three years ago more than 8 years ago than on the contrary, agricultural production unfortunately did not grow compared to before 2004 when compared in 2004 and 2011 there was no increase. On the contrary, when we look at some indicators, then we see that other than 4 foods as regards the total agricultural production of meat, milk and all dairy products, Croatia produces nothing but wheat, honey, mandarin and that is about it. Everything else isn't enough. So support that, but support in production that will result in greater production resulting in better competitiveness for those who will do so, and not as unfortunately so far, it has been often the case for support to who knows what they supported and who knows where all these money ended because there was no control of effective control. However, this legislative change and this law will introduce order in this regard because it will be an obligation to see the effectiveness of these aids. Supports have been given from something and so far they have had to comply with EU rules, and now they will be absolutely controlled. So there is no support that will not be unable to provide support which is not approved by the EU Commission from the EU and that is good. Therefore, no competition should be violated, no economic operator in the EU area should be put in a more favourable position than others and that is the meaning of state aid. Support for our companies, our businesses and people will only be able to support those allowed in the European Union, so they are placed in a level playing field. And of course, in that case, we must fight to make these support as much as possible so that our producers, regardless of which segment, agriculture, industry, etc., will be competitive and produce better, of course, within the existing rules that will apply. But this must also result in greater production, better productivity, and, of course, those who will work in these areas to make them better, therefore both employees and workers, to make it better in that segment. So to stimulate production and work, not to stimulate non-production and labour, as unfortunately it seems so far and often has been the case. Therefore, this law adopts except as it is aligned with the European Union and a series of qualitative changes. First of all, what will be the obligation of those who support their efficiency and take account here in this House. And when it comes to making an account here in Parliament, it is, however, a little imprecisely stated in the law, but we will probably go in that sense to improve it, that it is the government's obligation to report to the Parliament on state aid, which makes sense that it is the Government, or that the Ministry of Finance unites it, and not as AZTN so far. Because the government is the one who runs the support policy, and it gives them logically that it also takes account before the Parliament here of the support, and not as it has so far been any agency that I say has technically submitted the report even though it has not given support, and in particular it has not had the ability to control their efficiency and efficiency as it happens with them. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40000	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Comrade Djuro Drinker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40001	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's the thing. It's actually hard to listen to how much here in these discussions there's an ex-post mind about all the issues. Since we're all smart today about shipbuilding, it's actually amazing. Some colleagues have been in politics a lot longer than I have, and I have had this privilege and happiness that I have participated in the final part of the shipbuilding story. So do you even know what I'm talking about? Croatia Shipbuilding 2010, 2011, big shipbuilding, this problem has been paid zero kuna of state support and direct transfers, zero kuna. Prior to that, illegal support of course in 2006 to 2010, and therefore the process of restructuring and restructuring programmes, here is a colleague... he knows it well. 400 million kuna of direct transfers from the budget, 400 million kuna. Do you even know what you're talking about? When you talk about it and remember your reactions when they went into the difficult restructuring negotiations that you were doing in the parliamentary benches around that same shipbuilding that we would destroy it with these processes. After all, of course, shipbuilding is a difficult and serious problem. You know, you say we've been building less, so do you know that in 2009, 2010, the biggest shipbuilding crisis in the world occurred, that 70, 80% of ships were ordered less than ever before or a year earlier. So give some seriousness, not just politicization. You are talking about agriculture, so you know that in these last 10 years, Croatia's peasant has finally started to look like a real modern farmer. Do you even know how many modern dairy farms have been built that you've been destroying for the last year and a half? 20 or 30% less milk is produced a year and a half days than the year before. Those are the results. Be serious and at least be responsible to all those who are here may be watching this unfortunate transmission. It's facts, it's serious things you're talking about. Now, how come you're all such an ex-post mind, and here's to your colleagues who've discussed it the same way before.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40002	Thank you. Time, Comrade Drinker. Replication response, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40003	A fellow drinker, of course it's a serious subject, so I'll be serious. And as for the subsequent mind, only the person who was in power can have an ex post mind, so he didn't do it, so now he's got an ex post mind. We don't have a second thought, we came to power and solved the shipbuilding problem. Now that you're talking about shipbuilding, you can talk about later brains, not us who weren't in a position to solve it, and you've been in a position for eight years to solve it, you haven't solved it, we've solved it in a year. So much for later brains. As far as agriculture is concerned, you are also talking about a modern Croatian peasant, etc. It is true and the goal is to make the Croatian peasant as modern as possible and competitive as it will have to be competitive with the European Union producer within a month. That's our goal. However, with strong support, so in 2011, the last years of your rule of support have been twice as large in agriculture as in 2004, production has not been twice as large but rather, in many segments smaller. Therefore, there has been no increase in production not in these last year and a half but during your reign. Of course, people don't know the data, you can talk like that, you can freely bring out the wrong data here, but let there's still us who won't let you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40004	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40005	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelusic, you said in your debate that this law actually gives rise to real concerns about support and transparency in public finances consumption. It's classic for you on that side because you always experience your coming to power as the beginning of some new state and new creation. But that's not true. The State aid story began in 2003 through the first State Aid Act and ten years were upgraded, each year, through certain activities of those in charge. And now to say that we are just passing two laws that have already been brought into line with European Union legislation, that they would not have entered the European Union. And then it goes how we're gonna do this, how are you gonna do that? How much support you've given as a person at all, if you've been able to do so in any way in order to be able to assess the effectiveness of a particular support, let's say support for a small value. What is its effectiveness when you pay someone 500 000 kuna for, say, 100 employees on the islands. How do we measure its efficiency, let's say it deals with tourism, camping, or I don't know what. Are we going to count the number of employees that have increased, whether we're going to watch his balance, or what we're going to do to determine the effectiveness of the 500 000 kunas we've given him? Does the state know how she's gonna measure it? He knows, okay. Turns out she didn't know by now, that support has been granted so far, let's say, past AZTN. Not true, no support could be granted without the agency agreeing to the same either if it were the Ministry of the Sea, whether it was the Ministry of Economy, Agriculture and so on. That's where all the data comes in. They have information about every company. If you can get a million-and-a-half kuna support small value and collect all the data. You can't pay more. If someone has received support in both the islands and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy, you can't pay him that amount as much as you should at the Ministry of the Sea. Well, that's clear rules. They've existed before. Let's just say a little bit more clearly who is responsible throughout the system and, of course, the EU control system is being introduced, which is quite legitimate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40006	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40007	Comrade Boric, you said that we came as if we were creating a new state. No, we're not creating a new state. The state has been created here for 23 years, but the new policy is yes. A new policy in that country that we are creating and implementing, because the existing policies that you have been leading these years have brought here we are, and that is that we have brought, that we are both citizens and the economy on the verge of collapse. Whatever segment we're touching, you can see it. So we are implementing a new policy in all segments, and even in this segment of support where we say that from now on the executive power will be required, that it is responsible for the support it has given, that it submits to the Parliament not only how much it has given, but how it has given and how it has been spent and what the effects of that are. So far, this has not been settled legally, it has not been such a commitment, the government has not submitted a report on the effects of state aid. It's just like that. And that's a fact whether you like it or not. Why wasn't it so likely or two were reasons. First of all, you may not have thought of it that it was necessary or another thing that didn't suit you and that it was absolutely transparent because they probably finished some of the funds by buying certain support, political votes, etc. Well then it's not convenient here in the Parliament to say. Unfortunately, politics was such that state money was being given, spent as Alajbeg’s straw, and what was happening to it and what were its benefits and what efficiency it was not interested in. I listed specific data, so the support doubled and the production wasn't. So why? Probably because it wasn't effective. So I repeat my support to yes, but support and even greater if it is necessary for farmers and the economy. They must be, make them more competitive, they must be in line with the EU but must result in a better position for people working there and greater production.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40008	And Ivan Shuker, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40009	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Jelusic, fortunately there are records of parliamentary debates, so then we see how contradictory we are. You should hear what you and your colleagues were saying when Mrs. Olga Spevec filed this report, the diametric opposite of what you're saying now, and she was reporting on the cost of supporting what she was going to do. And you even see in this law that you have not even read the law, because in the law you have no obligation to report to the Croatian Parliament. You don't have that obligation under the law. So you haven't even read the law, and you're taking lessons. And before in the AZTN Act, you thought it was a one-year duty to file a report. There's no such thing in this law now. That's what my colleague Lalovec and I were talking about earlier. That's out of the law now. The other thing is, you're saying someone was giving someone away. My colleague Jelusic, I would remind you when the Government was unable to guarantee 3 due to a restructuring programme for Croatian shipbuilding. May because we just didn't get permission from Brussels. At that time, your party colleagues in Rijeka wanted to make a decision on the city council on a guarantee that was totally illegal, but it was a purely political act to collect political points before any elections. But in order for this law to happen at all, you could ask your colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, yet certain processes had to be carried out. And if you had listened to the debate on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, then you wouldn't have spoken at all in this way. The other thing is, you and some of the others have completely missed the subject. Agriculture is not something regulated by this law. Agriculture and fishing support are somewhere else. But when we don't know what we're going to talk about, when we have arguments, then we throw everything together. But look at how many Croatian railways received by 2011 from the budget, how much they get today and how much Croatian shipbuilding they get. To remind you of the shipbuilding and your government in 2003 gave 8 billion kuna for recovery, and the shipbuilding is unfortunately in the situation in which it is. And God damn it, the support users have learned something in recent years and they're not going to get into a situation tomorrow that they have to return illegally acquired support.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40010	Thank you. The reply to the replica Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40011	It's your right colleague Shuker, even in your own style, to say that you attack some MP and say you haven't read the law because it's always better to hit a man than to argue. But you can say that I didn't read the law. But I can safely say that you didn't listen to what I was saying, because if you listened then you wouldn't say it, nor would half of what you said. So, I said when it comes to submitting reports to the Parliament that this is not clearly stated in the law, and that is why we will suggest that this is more clearly specified to be an obligation, even though it was meant by law and by the talks we had with the ministry. But now we're going to go with an improvement to make it said, so there's no twisting whether it's a commitment or not. So, the government will be bound by the new law to endure and I said it, only you didn't listen to it, but it's easier to say that I didn't read the law. So, it will be mandatory to submit, file a report here. But not just about the funds that are... but also about the effectiveness of the assignment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, since these funds have been spent and what are the effects, and so far this in the existing legal solution has not been an obligation for anyone, nor has the agency that submitted the report. Therefore, she did not submit a report on effectiveness, but only on how much money was spent and there is a great qualitative difference between this law that we are adopting and the practices and laws that you have passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40012	We're continuing the debate. It's my colleague Josip Boric's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40013	Well, here's something I want to say about these two important laws. I think they are really important for the future of Croatian citizens, but also for the overall functioning of the country as well. the state budget. But before that, I'll just look back at what counterpart Jelusic said earlier, I think that's the basic premise with which SDP representatives went into debate about these two laws, that they were big support but production was decreasing, and today we have a situation that the support has been reduced, and the production has disappeared. That's a big difference. And that should make a difference. In my debate, I will look back at one part that I know of where I've made a lot of efforts to make it work, and it's about the support of small value that we've introduced to island employers who don't have a small number. There are over 5,000 larger and smaller ones on the islands, and sometimes they would wonder how much this economy is island and tough I would say it. We have large companies that employ several hundred employees, employees, both in tourism and in construction. Unfortunately, an island firm these days has been passing, not just these days for the last year and a half, it's the Omis DEOKI, and it was also one of the better companies that carried the economy of an entire municipality and one part of the island. Today, however, he is in big trouble. When we talk about these small aids, maybe they are also through this law, I don't know if it's intentional whether because they're not respected enough I think they're very important to them, especially that part of the Croatian economy is small and medium-sized entrepreneurs because the feedback we received from the Croatian islands was that it might be the most concrete aid of the state in their business. In 2006, we changed the Island Act so that we could introduce such a provision, to build a regulation on it, and we allowed any island employer to benefit for each employee if it was big islands, more developed islands half or 50% of the average gross salary paid per year per employee. So these amounts sometimes amounted to several thousand and up to 750 thousand maximum in one year so that in two years there would be 200 thousand euros or a million and a half kuna. And that's something that worked until last year. However, last year's first problem, and this year another. Last year, in that division where we spent about 12 million kunas in eight years for such one aid, we have only 8 million kuna last year, and this year 4 million kuna. This is the concrete aid to the island economy, for example, of this government, which says it takes care of island economies, of all segments of the development of these environments. However, they are denied the facts. To make the thing even worse for this year, there is not even a call, and Croatian island employers are waiting for it because I say it allows them to at least through that amount that they get to compensate for the difference in the cost they have in their business, given that they work on the islands and that they place their products not only on islands but still wider meanings in the whole of Croatia, and many are exporting their products. Of course, such help is not welcome to them. But as I say, the story of how we take care of everyone, how here there was once a lot of these support but there was no production, the results, so now we're reducing it, and then it'll be better and there'll be more results. That's what our colleagues on the other hand know. I don't believe it. The structure of these islands' support was 36% in tourism, in small shipbuilding 17%, agriculture only 5%, fishing 13%, and the rest where the largest part of construction was around 30%. Of course it was a great help to these island owners. Now I'm going to talk about this second law regarding the transparency of funding. We have heard a lot already, I will look back on the maritime transport segment which has been fully built and upgraded over the past 10 years most in the period 2004-2011 as a system of complete construction and upgrades to what we have had. In this system that has 53 lines, of which 27 ferry lines, 10 speedboats and 16 speedboats have grown at incredible rates. That's when we talk about transportation. In 2004, we transported 8 million and 140 thousand passengers, and in 2011. 12 million. It is over 3.5 million more passengers towards Croatian islands. We were transporting in 2004. 2 million and 153,000 vehicles, today it's over 2 million and 800 thousand vehicles. So, an increase of nearly 700 thousand vehicles towards Croatian islands. On the high-speed lines introduced in 2003, 2004 and up to today, over a million and 100,000 passengers are transported annually. So, by means of fast transport. The Jadrolinija programme in the reconstruction that weighed over 140m euros, which is important for this law because I have already replicated my colleagues to Shuker, referred to the purchase and construction of 12 new ships. In those 8 years new ferry and boats of Jadrolinija – Marijan, Cres, Bol, Sveti Krševan, Zadar, Supetar, Juraj Dalmatinac, Hrvat, Ilovik, Biokovo, Jadran and Korčula were created. 12 large ferrys and ships that are today with their capacity along with all others in a city the size of Sibenik translated into one ride. This is something that allowed the competitiveness of Jadrolinia, but certainly also better and cheaper life on islands. And that should be made clear. Now the question is, how are we going to book 140m euros for each line, for each built ferry when we transfer them, especially in the season, from line to line? Who will be able to control it and is it just the beginning today or have we had it before in a certain but different form of bookmaking? That's what we have to answer. And that the figures are inexorable and speak for the sake of the island and islanders and deny the story we heard by the Labourists that it's a waste of money towards when we talk about investing in Croatian islands that it's a waste of money in a well. They speak all the other statistics, everyone else. Today on the islands we have built and restored all primary and regional schools, all island homes of health, built new homes for older people, infrastructure that is being built both in water supply and in drain and upgrades to what has been built over the past 8 years. For 8 years, we have invested in 75 ports in which the ferrys of the high-speed and shipship lines agree to be able to receive this amount of passengers at all. You in the islands in the summer months have an increase in the population from 2 to 5 times depending on destination. That should be served. We must also say that from 1246 islands, islets and cliffs in Croatia we have inhabited all 56 and that life on these islands should be preserved, and then there is the state to do so through support and through subsidies. We subsidize road transport to all categories of non-working population, all on islands are driven free of charge. It costs us 25 million kuna per year for all Croatian islands but high school students, primary school students, pensioners drive free anywhere on the island. That's something to encourage. The high-speed lines were I would call the revolution in relation to the state towards the Croatian islanders. You come from Novalja from Rab to Rijeka for 40 kuna today. That was impossible once, but you're coming in an hour, an hour and a half, an hour and 15 minutes. Well, that catamaran spends 2,000 gallons of oil or I don't know what kind of fuel he's using. Well, it's already at the start of a cost that I can't even make up for 300 passengers in it when it's full. Of course the state needs to subsidize. But she helped a parallel and a bus driver who found his problem there and somehow subsidized him. But that's been done for the past eight years. Nothing starts with these two laws. And that's why I say that these stories have been completely missed because 12 billion kunas invested in the last 8 years in Croatian islands, today they have made these islands more competitive and attractive in tourism, today these islands and are returning money to the state budget as much as anyone can tell. Everyone will now go to these Croatian islands within a month and find a place where they will rest, but believe me, there is no effort in this country that the Croatian islands today could not return as much as they are returning today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40014	Thank you. The Republic has a colleague, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40015	Thank you very much. A fellow Boric, and apparently no debate can be without political tones and only one elemental question arises whether this government could pass such a law that certain steps have not been made in recent years as legislative as well as the preparation of those who use these support so that they can get used to new rules of the game? Yes, some of the support may not have been used as it should have been used, but since you talked about islands the most, then you really need to ask anyone who doubts whether the construction of these ferrys that led to the more quality of the organisation of the liner space, whether the construction of dozens of ports or ports on the islands led to the possibility that various vessels would be able to transport islanders and guests, whether the construction of municipal and social infrastructures and waterways and sewers and schools and clinics and kindergartens would have led to the return of life to those islands? It's a question that can be answered very simply, when we see what the situation on the islands was like ten years ago today. And worried that such a law, which in a certain way under the cover of transparency, will raise some of the projects into question, should simply be spoken of publicly, should be brought to public attention. If someone is grumbling about this problem tomorrow, this problem as a problem of shipbuilding which we can say to all governments for two decades can be broken into the head and this problem can be broken tomorrow, regardless of which government was to break the head, and unfortunately the highest price will be paid by Croatian islanders and will pay primarily by people in Dalmatia's Zagorje who use railways. And that's something we wanted to warn you about without the intention of politicizing because I think our debate today went to a politicised one and it went more to warn about certain things that may unfortunately happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40016	Thank you. Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40017	Well, you're right, I'm telling you, my colleague Schuker, which is why we both rightly wondered where we're going to book 12 built ferrys in the past 140 million euros. Are we going to write that down, say, on a profitable line? We have only 6 profitable lines on the Adriatic, and I will list one Valbiska-Merag serving the Ilovik ferry that was purchased in Greece. This ferry, which is a certain amount of money, I'm not going to say how much but over a dozen million euros, and it needs to be written somewhere. Are we going through these special accounts and then make that line unprofitable? Are we going to ask for a subsidy extra in the contest? That's what we're asking. And right now, the agency has called all the competitions for all the high-speed and all the ferry and shipping lines. And they're in progress, and there's competitions every day. That's where the terms are already set. You know where we're looking for 15 million kuna subsidies, you know where to look for 7 or 5. Well, we didn't get those numbers without any criteria. We came on the basis of what the shipowners proved to be the cost of a certain line. If I were to tell you that the line of Losinj-Ilovik-Susak-Union and Lošinj makes only 600 thousand kuna a year, and the cost is almost 15 million. Would they bring that down in the field of cost-effectiveness or elimination? Are we going to cut off the communication of these islands with our centre in Losinj because it costs 15 million kuna? Should we run a story at that level? Of course, we also need support from the state through specific laws on the Adriatic and through the Law on public-line coastal transport and through this law now on support, and it certainly had the right to help the island's population live properly. But it doesn't only help him, and tourists are satisfied. Last year, I'll give you an example of the island of Rab, when we opened the new port Stinica for the island of Rab, reduced waiting from the previous 5.5 hours a week means when the loads were carried out for only 45 minutes. Travellers from Munich to Stinic came before Stinica to Rab, and these are still big steps.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40018	Replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40019	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Boric, I am impressed by what has been achieved on our islands. That's one I'd say, I'm not going to say a new picture of our islands about everything you said, about free transportation of students and about the lines of speed that exist, Losinj-Susak-Ilovik and vice versa. However, I must remind you that the money spent to achieve all this is not just support money, and here we are discussing support, state support. So the money spent, there's also the Law on the Sea where more than a billion kunas were secured for the development of the island, the Island Act. Therefore, not only is the state aid money spent on what you say. The second thing, you were also talking about the demographic deaths of our islands, so you said it also helps to open lines, connect the island by boat lines, etc. However, do you know that the Pleternica-Nasice railway in which she lives is cut off, so some 20,000 inhabitants live in the area. It is not even the two largest islands that are almost not so many, our two largest islands do not have as many inhabitants and no one wonders about it, just at the time of Minister Calmeta who abolished that Pleternica-Ours railroad without the prospect of restoring or returning to function as it has been for the past 100 years as this railroad has been built. Do you know that agricultural producers from Trošinac, Đurić, Rats and the whole... can not get vinjets to drive their agricultural products by highway to Rijeka but must pay a full price for a truck or a truck that would drive to Rijeka on the market and to Zagreb, etc. So it's great, it's nice to listen, and I'm impressed, and I'm pleased that this is the situation on the islands, but on the other hand, there's no sensitivity to anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40020	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40021	... The replica, if she was hit, I don't know, but I'd like the same thing. [[Specially enabled.]] The question is, where's the problem and who missed? I believe that the issue of support and you said yourself may not be part of it, if you said that for islands not only support but also everything else, the infrastructure was invested funds from loans and budgets etc. such infrastructure facilities have been provided. I believe that this is done in Slavonia, perhaps not in the same size, perhaps the problem there is in some other political options that they can't or don't know about. Maybe they don't have enough support for those who would represent, you understand. That might be the problem. Because we're hearing different interpretations here today, as someone says, we can interpret it one way or the other. I'm just saying that for 8 years when we took care of the islands, when we had an independent administration that this government had abolished and turned into a sector, we cared about that population. We now hear that the Law on PPDS, the Law on Special Areas of State Care, will be abolished, that the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas that have just gone into this segment will help the very population. If that happens, and we hear that they will, that this government is going to, and there's no way to say it here, then it's clear what's waiting for us. Without these laws, life in these areas will be only more difficult, and then we can justify it with the European Union funds and the requirements of Brussels and all other political instruments, but life will be harder. And the Law on Islands will not be abolished because it creates very good conditions. Who should be concerned about this, so I think the current government is because no one is stopping them from leaving such a law in force and upgrading it and even better for the benefit of the population because the richer people in this area are automatically and richer Europeans, newer than 1.7. Of course, that should also be done by the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40022	Thank you. Anna Lovrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40023	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Boric, of course, that the Island Act should remain, but they should also remain mechanisms and introduce additional ones so that it can be fully implemented. You were talking about 12 billion kunas that have been invested in islands for the past 8 years where the state has really shown concern for islands and the desire to keep that island population. You also talked about ports, so they were built on many islands or renovated or built docks, so often those not even touched by Austro-Hungarians, from what was built yet for Austro-Hungarians, therefore, and in all things tried to connect the islands with land and communication. You also said that there are now free student student tickets, free retirement tickets and certified tickets for the islanders. That's good and shouldn't and shouldn't be lifted. However, something a little attention is paid to what I would like to mention here, which is that the latest announcements about the collection, the drastic gathering of double and more high-speed high-speed high-speed tickets, were not taken into account by the inhabitants of Croatia, the non-inland citizens of Croatia, but live in the large cities to which these islands are bound. That's what they're called. The weekenders, therefore, will make it drastically difficult for them to come to the island. And let's not forget, many small islands live on weekends and weekends keep them alive because they come to their old parents, helping them out there, planting olive trees, picking. So these islands would have been moved long ago if there were no weekenders who regularly come to this if this collection was realized that announced by them would have made it drastically impossible to come to the islands and it certainly wouldn't have contributed to their resuscitation, and I think we're completely out of our minds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40024	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40025	My colleague Lovrin doesn't agree with the part where you said the islands would be dead if there weren't any weekenders. They would not be dead; the islands live with the people who live and have a place on the islands. The weekends are help and I can help. But I was talking about prices. We got, given again I say, this government cut subsidies from 385 to 355 million kuna or from 390 to 355. So, it reduces 35 million kunas in the state budget and breaks it to line users, Jadrolinia, Rape navigation and other shipowners. They got their ticket, say, for Novalja was 60 now paying 90 kuna, 55% approximately. Because they consider it bad for Croatian islands, i.e. tourists should pay for that. We ran politics in a way that is equally important to both the islander and that tourist. He comes there at an acceptable price and he spends there and leaves some money and is not the only thing that matters to us is that segment. And we managed to solve all this with 380 million kunas, 380 million kuna subsidies. And now we're introducing order and again, we're always missing something, and then we break at the end of the line. This is the problem, because they do not want to restructure the companies, the public firms that need to do so, do not want to benefit the population but only worry about the budgets of these companies. And then of course we have stories like this. And the most expensive are actually the largest ticket from Split to Solta, i.e. to the Horns for the whole 120%, and that's something that should be a message to the Splits. ... That's right, because I say these little islands are bound to big cities and they're in their administrative composition and of course they should be able to do what we did, and that was true that in 2011 we drove cheaper than in 2004 with twice the price of energy. [[- Intruder Lovrin, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40026	We're continuing the debate. Comrade Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40027	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. To begin immediately from the end, in fact, from one more part of the answer to Mr. Boric that the areas of special state care that we have spoken about actually cease to be in that form in 2017, according to either the treatment or the contract with the EU, so after 2013, another 4 years for the adaptation and abolition of so-called. the areas of special state concern in 2017. It's agreed and agreed with the EU, that's how it is. The second thing I wanted to say was a sentence that says here that by joining the EU the Council of the European Communities Regulation since '99. It shall also apply directly to the Republic of Croatia and to the main tasks of the State aid system currently carried out in the Republic of Croatia by the Agency shall become the sole competence of the European Commission. Therefore, the European Commission, by means of this, becomes responsible for the allocation, distribution, distribution of state aid and is now making it clear. Simply this legislative proposal is final to say glanc or final glamour to the State Support Act, which is defined like this in this sentence that I have spoken. There is nothing in particular new in these state aids and in the distribution of state aid, except that clearly European, or agency, it also informs the European Commission more to say in-depth or more concerned with the placement of these support and the efficiency of the use of these support. Therefore, it will be recorded for what all the support was used for and what effect, what effect was produced by the support given to the individual user. In Europe, therefore, there are so-called. horizontal and structural support as well as with us. Horizontal support and relationship, so horizontal and structural support in Europe is about 80:20. Even more in favor of horizontal support. In Croatia, this is completely the other way around. So structural support is over 80% and horizontal is 11.15. Here's the last year of 2011, where we have a 14.68% report. How do you change that? Can I say that overnight or simply by entering Croatia on July 1st in the EU? Very difficult or it's actually going to be one degree process, but it's also important that when we look at the amount of support then we see that in the gross domestic product, so the share of state aid in the gross domestic product was 2.38% in 2006, which is 2.38%. In 2011, it's only 1.46%. So, a 40% reduction. So the share of state aid in the gross social product has been reduced by 40% by five years, by 40%. Now, who's going to be given support, how are they going to be spent, what's going to produce these support, so that's the thing of this agency that's being given the right to report to who? The European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm here in this proposal of the State Support Act asking whether the agency or the Government will report to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, but here's what Mr. Shucker said. I don't see it anywhere in the material that it's going to happen. Or is it forgotten that the Croatian Parliament will also have insight into the granting of state support and the monitoring of the effectiveness of these state aids? As far as shipbuilding and debate in the Assembly is concerned, in terms of supporting shipbuilding and the sentence I remembered well, Mr. Boris, so at the time of the eight years of HDZ's rule, the support was 2.38% of the relatively large GDP and the production was small. Now that 40% of the production support is actually gone. Now, what's up? Is it worse to support and have small production or reduce so much support that there is no production at all? From the evil father and worse mother, so to speak, both HDZ and SDP. The law bears the code E., so P.Z.E. I said it was a final glow on the final proposal and support given in the form of cash transfers then state guarantees, write off debts, convert claims into capital. So these are forms of state aid. In explanations, i.e. general provisions, there are individual state aids, then small state support that are also here in explanations, but all in all when we talk about the money that has been paid to this end by more than 36 billion kuna in the form of state aid and when we talk about spending these money in, I started to talk about shipbuilding and then about those 8 billion spent by the SDP government in that period from 2000 to 2003, and these twice as much, I don't know what to say about it at all because we see how it ended, the changes that have been made and the privatisation, that is, what's actually going to be done to shut down the good part and what we've done? The queen stands, Split here these days we see workers being fired and what's the effect so much to say the money in the restructuring of shipbuilding? Yesterday we discussed HBOR and we said that part of the funds that the bank places is very small in relation to the money that commercial banks have. And here's an opportunity, an idea or a suggestion that we might not sell H.P.B. Why don't you HBOR so-called. Let's cut short and H.P.B. put together the funds? I can't? All right, all right. Therefore, and act exactly as in this segment there would therefore be more money in support and that the percentage of GDP, i.e. the share of GDP, would again not be 1.46% but 2.5%.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40028	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40029	In any case, we will accept the legal proposal, given that we have a European label and that is it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40030	Thank you very much. We're moving on to replicas. My colleague Đurović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40031	Thank you. So here's when you talked about that state aid system, it's obvious that he was a deviant, that he was poorly structured. It's not just the legacy of this government, it's the previous governments. For example, we also know that the TV subscription was also set up by the Competition Protection Agency and the TV subscription, given that in fact this is a form of state support collected from citizens over a billion kunas. It was also evident that the work of the agency was not satisfactory because the agency was actually finished, very rare cases are when the agency recognized and accumulated capital in general illicit and unauthorized and all what the agency instructed were actually not to do in Croatia. And various coupons, and various points, and various discounts and very rare cases that the agency has ever responded. In recent years, these have been practically exceptions, not a rule, and we have had a whole series of forms of illegal behaviour against the conditions that regulate this competition. And they were more or less passing. In this structure, of course, the first subsidies to shipbuilding, then the guarantees to shipbuilding, then Croatia airlines where actually Croatian taxpayers ultimately pay a very high price from year to year in fact to failed administrations not once but to a series of failed administrations, subsidies to railways where we pay late in the technological process, and what we have finally done nothing is precisely horizontal and regional support. And it's been going on for years. However, no government has ever shown any way to finally go into horizontal and regional support and to support real development, not only through sectoral support, to cover the huge negatives created by losers in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40032	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40033	A colleague, Djurovic, and not only that, was ruled by clientelism in support. You know that well who was getting all the support and Mr. Schucker himself said there was a deviation, right? Is that what Mr. Shucker said, who was the finance minister in his previous term? Very often, in this case, he acted as drunk rich people as though he had enough money, as if the people, citizens who separate from their tax liabilities, were simply an unexhausted source of money. Horizontal and regional support as seen from year to year has progressed very, very slowly. Of the 11.5% that belonged to the horizontal support in 2006, we've now reached 14.85 in seven years. If we were to go that way in 100 years we'd probably do it to meet the European standards of 80, 85% of the horizontal support, and only 15% of the structural support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40034	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40035	Dear counterpart Grubisic, you also mentioned the fact that he will control the support means he will be under the jurisdiction of the EU Commission of 1.7. And she'll control a fair and fair competition. However, please tell me what we can compete with the British, the Germans, the French except football, probably in football where we were once very successful. How can we compete with the Croatian railways with the railways in Germany? How can this be unfair competition if the state supports HZ how HH unfair competition can be, say, British, German or French railways when a train between Paris and Lyon seems to drive 250km/h and say our trains drive 40, 50km/h? In order for us to catch up with them, we should certainly have some special conditions for and for support and otherwise for business. So when they say that David and Goliath will be in an equal position right now in the EU, I think that's one of the flossules that we can't repeat here in the Assembly and we can't fool the people just by saying that now from 1.7 we and the British are going to be in the same line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40036	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40037	If a colleague Vuksic, TŽV therefore a train that drives on the Paris-Marseus route and through Lyon and there only stops there and Exam-Provence therefore really drives 300km/h about, and we have an opportunity in ours I would say maybe one romantic tourist paradise to reintroduce after we already bring coal to Plomin C to make steam locomotives again and return to the 19th century and so be one country from the 19th century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40038	Nancy Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40039	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague Grubisic, first of all, we've just closed the track in Istria, and we can't do that with HZ regarding TE, but here I'm replicating you. You said the agency would be more busy analysing the impact of the aid granted and that it would have to inform the government of the Republic of Croatia. I only note that so far we have also had one good tool to which the agency is, we had one rule that the agency wanted for the first time in 2012 from the support providers to collect all the data on the real effectiveness of these allocated support, and based on one form. Unfortunately, of all those who supported only 10 of them responded to the Agency's request and provided the requested data, which are 4 ministries, 3 agencies and the Croatian Audiovisual Centre, the Professional Rehabilitation Fund and the employment of persons with disabilities and HBOR in one part. Therefore, of all the support given by the Republic of Croatia and the support bonds were mandatory to provide certain data to the Agency, only 10 of them were provided. And therefore, it is probably good that we bring these laws today and that some things will be decided in Europe, and I hope that this will be done where and where better resolved and going back to that beginning that as long as we don't solve things with ourselves, we can make laws and regulations as long as we want, but as long as those who don't comply with the regulations don't start to answer for our failures, we won't be able to help Europe either.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40040	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40041	You colleagues are contradictory, you have now said that Europe will bring some order when the agency delivers data in Brussels. So we Croats like without cities on B and rulers over us here are 22, 23 years of independence we can't possibly. Without therefore Vienna, Budapest, Belgrade and here is Brussels at the end of 4.b so if Brussels introduces order into the agency and if it introduces order into our state support, then I really don't know what it is. how it will all end will be seen, but in any case here, in this final draft of the law, the main sentence is precisely that the EU Commission is also familiar with what the agency is doing, with state support, the efficiency of State support consumption and with everyone else. That's it, so let's enjoy Brussels from 1.7.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40042	Replica, Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40043	Honored Madam Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, you said from an evil father and worse mother, now I don't know by thinking of HDZ, SDP, you've been repeating here for a long time as if you're a broken record player, you're playing the same story without any cover, and the lyrics of music and the way and what I know, it's not even rock'n'roll, now some new styles have come up, etc. No matter what you're saying, HDZ is giving support, we're talking about agriculture, we're talking about buying tractors. It seems to me that we are going to go to worse conditions in agriculture when I see the debates that are being held here today, when I hear it. Well, of course we gave support to the villagers to buy tractors. You'd like those others who used to do that, if our peasants were plowing meadows in Slavonia with oxen, that young brides would milk a cow in the morning at 6 o'clock. So every profession and economy, space, equipment, when, that's a profession, that's a branch of the economy. And the space and the barn should be built and the equipment should be bought, the male cow equipment and should be bought a tractor, of course with four speeds, with eight plows, with air conditioning, because that's what the villagers in America had 50 years ago. No one's gonna do agriculture on that little tractor where the sun burns it. You don't understand some things that had to modernize the agricultural economy in Croatia. And if there were irregularities, and there were irregularities, then it should have been fixed, given greater incentives both in agriculture and in the Adriatic to drive to the islands. And it's not true that there was no control, who planted the pears was an inspection that was supposed to measure how many pears were planted, whether the grass was cut. If that's not what the service was doing, then it's another job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40044	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40045	You've got your colleague Marasovic doing HDZ=SDP very well. So you gave everything for yourself as you said and you can tell by what was left behind. About agriculture and the incentives, or the support of agriculture, I didn't talk about it, or the tractors, you replaced it a little bit, something you sleep on this House. So you worked by giving, don't let me tell you who, the president of the county organization that owns the company in Slavonski Brod 10 million kuna support and the company is now doomed. And you want me to tell you who else, you want me to tell you by name who you were supporting, your people. And it was you to me, me to yourself, that's how you did it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40046	And Mladen Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40047	Thank you very much. Comrade Grubisic, you said that the adoption of this law of EU finalisation is regulatory in this area, so I wrote down, I suppose I heard well. I can agree with that, but it's a global policy, but this is a national parliament. Where's the national interest in that? We can agree that the global policy of the European Union is what it is and that or nothing or very little can affect it, but what is happening to us. This is the thing that's going on in Croatia, let's just say it's going down all where we put our support. All the four segments that are listed there, all four are inhaled, all four are, we're not going to say crazy money, sure it's not crazy, but the effect is nothing. Sectoral support has been mentioned and should be moved in the way Europe does, but we are not at the level at which the Europeans are. And now I would be more prone to that definition that my colleague Shucker said was actually not supportive, that these were subsidies to some restructuring companies, which, however, now raises the question of how this restructuring was implemented in the first place and how it is otherwise implemented in Croatia. It comes down to the fact that the restructuring of all public enterprises is actually a layoff, mass layoff of workers, and is lost in the sight of leaving, for example, a service that affects the quality of the population. We don't have to talk about Croatian railways, we can talk about Croatian post office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40048	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40049	Thank you very much. Croatian mail is a special story of counterpart Novak, as Croatian mail offices are closing massively. We may also cancel Croatia's mail, what Croatia's mail will do to us in the first place. We now have City Express, etc., because in general Croatia will only send us real costs of nothing, I mean by quotes. But while you were already talking about support, I am obliged to read again what I said almost in the first sentence of exposure: By joining the Republic of Croatia, the regulation of the Council of the European Communities is beginning to apply directly in the Republic of Croatia and for the main tasks of the state aid system currently being carried out by the Agency in the Republic of Croatia becomes the sole responsibility of the European Commission. Sapientis ad.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40050	Proposer's closing statement, Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40051	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Now, even though this was to say the roof technical law on state aid, the debate basically stretched out, let's say one thought of the efficiency of the use of funds through different sectors. This was also mentioned by the maritime industry, in fact, all of these, let's say sectors which, unfortunately, still have a significant part of the funds invested were not in this part of their support for this part of the crisis to end and business and restructuring should be separated from the support and restructuring business. What is really before the Government of the Republic of Croatia is certainly that part of the support from restructuring separates in this part where this part of restructuring should also be clear and transparent and that this money that comes from the support actually shows its real impact. And in that part, we said that for the transparency of the funds, part goes for the restructuring, and what goes for a part of that support. And if we separate that part anyway, then we'll be able to present to this High House the real effects of state support. What's true here, and that's what I think colleague Tyrelli said about gathering information on state aids. Very bad, let's say we had problems in the system of gathering this information and for one quality analysis of all this data so that then very difficult you can bring some effective measures and present which in this part were, which were the measures correct. What's very important, and unfortunately where we have problems in statistics is where we don't have a country level and a variety of sectoral analysis. It surprised me that we didn't have a so-called. The input, output tables and let's see what are the real effects of one sector on another sector, where you should actually then and then connect with this part of state support where it would be the real effect of governance and industrial policy, and in fact state support policies. Because if you invest one piece in agriculture, that part should be seen through other sectors. So that part of the sector and the trade and retail and the tourism sector, and then you actually see the real effects of all of it. So to get the real impact of support in one industry in one branch, you have to have cross-cutting analyses. Unfortunately, I didn't see that part. Maybe if someone helps me find that part in the State Statistics Office and other parts, we haven't actually found that part, and in fact Europe, cross-sectoral tables, cross-sectoral analyses are very insistent and working on it, and in this part they're actually easier and they're being followed in this section when we're talking not only about sectoral but also in horizontal support. This is one upgrade that we should definitely do in statistics, so that we can finally get a quality report to present in this House of Higher Education, which is restructuring, what is support, what are intersectoral relations. And then it's easier to lead in this way and some industrial policy and state aid policy, that is, to see in fact the fiscal effects of knowing if certain funds are allocated in the state budget to know on the other hand how this reflected both through employees and through certain other benefits. I think that here and the field of statistics is extremely important, extremely important and what we have discussed here in analysis and analysis so that we can get a quality report. So just getting what someone's going to write on some paper list on what they spent it on, etc. It's all kind of questionable not to say, we can't be the profound effect of these support. Because when you invest in a particular program you actually have to get a number. Unfortunately, that's the part where we and the FINA lost statistics on these data, where, under that, the area of market liberalisation and we don't collect certain data when you invest, when you invest and when you talk and when you have these transfers to actually get the right one statistics, let's say all the foundations that should ultimately give the government the right management tool to manage through these state support tomorrow because they cost. They cost, unfortunately they are visible today accumulated through deficits. However, there must have been effects. But in order to manage sectoral, or horizontally, you have to have very good and quality statistics so that tomorrow you can tell me that this has paid off in agriculture, that it has paid off in tourism, it has paid off in industry, etc. When you don't have quality statistics we unfortunately here can only guess if something was successful, it wasn't successful, the declines in production, whether it's the impact of these sectors or if it's a much wider impact. So that we, we will ask for certainly to involve and wider institutions that collect these data and actually try to work on the quality of the data in that part. I think the quality of the data here is crucial so we can even discuss the real effects of state aid. In connection with the Parliament's reporting, you know that the Law on concessions also said that we would report in that part of the use of state property. Certainly in the talks and with counterpart Jelusic who actually noticed that there is no in this section and where the amendment will come, the government will probably accept it. I hope this House of the High, that this is the right place to discuss state aid and the best way to exchange like today's opinions on this part, on the effectiveness of state aid. So we will certainly install it through that amendment into the law to improve in this part of the House to discuss precisely this part of efficiency. And that's why what I told you needs very good statistics. And I think that means eventually through all the clubs it means that it stretched that part of the efficiency and issues that Mr. Shucker said were those support for competitiveness, whether they had completed the restructuring process. Yes, the question here is that this restructuring was to be done at the time of the crisis, meaning when the crisis started in 2008, 2009 and certainly started to be restructured very quickly, when actually the first wave of the crisis happened today we could talk about both some other and economic growth and problems, and about exits. Unfortunately, however, when restructuring must be done in 2012 and in the private sector and in public enterprises, it is certainly the part and effects of the government's effects that are very difficult to see today, they are seen in macro-economic indicators very hard to see and cannot be seen in macro-economic indicators because the restructuring began in 2012. And that it might have started in 2009, 2010 when there was a severe crisis to show up in that part. We hope that this part of the restructuring will end this year, so that the first effects should certainly be seen in both macroeconomic ties and economic growth and restructuring should be seen next year. It's simple processes we can't really avoid. These are processes that last and which are actually, but if we know which parts of how we're going to restructure them clearly transparently and what these means are actually seen I don't think there's anyone, no one will have an objection. So here it's very important for us so far, we're going to give support from the Ministry of Finance, and that's why we've taken on ourselves to collect these statistics and communicate with all the institutions to actually collect quality data. Then I think we'll be able to talk a lot simpler about how much something was, what was the real effect. And that's where I'd agree with Mr. Vuksic when he said nothing of us some sort of date of entry to say we'd be better or not. These are the technical laws that we must adopt, but of course we must also change those who use both support providers and those who use a certain way of thinking that by joining the EU we are actually on the single market and that we should look for benefits in that part. But certainly changing the business that we see so far has not been successful when we look at both the public sector and when we look at this part of state support. Thanks again for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40052	Thank you very much. We have five replicas. First, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40053	Dear Mr. Lalovec, you spoke very well and inspiredly of the need to analyse the effects of support. Now that's all we have to do. Punish those who are not even worthy to give a report on what they have spent their support on, let alone that we can expect some expected result from them. And second, do we even know what's expected if we haven't set goals before? We've given support, we haven't set goals as to how those people who have received support will achieve these goals? We will certainly stay, that is a common word, in bananas if we leave everything to the European Commission and if we expect something from the date itself. Nothing's going to happen in 1.07. And I fully agree with those who have already said on that trail, there is no need to look for the culprit, there is a need to make an analysis of the culprits will be seen or responsible who are from that analysis. We need to find solutions. If we find solutions, then we're on our way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40054	Replication response, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40055	Thank you. I agree with what you said about solutions, now look in that part where it's been spent since 2006-2011, how much I don't think it's real now. What you said is very important now that we change the way these currents are managed and that those who need to actually supply that information to follow them. But I always say that, it's actually up to the government to establish one system, to establish a system and control data and control the spending of that money and to define it clearly and transparently. So we're not talking here, but it's definitely one process that what you said won't be 1.07, but if we set it up to set up by the end of the year already both standards and controls and mechanisms that actually the effects will be seen. And that's what you're going to do when you control us in a year, when we bring in the report, we're going to tell if we did or didn't, and then we can talk about whether we're in those measures that we've set up or not. But here I'm telling you right now that it means we've set up to report to the Parliament and on the next report that will be on state aid you'll see in that section what the impact report is, and certainly it'll be better and statistics that we'll be able to make that report even better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40056	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40057	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. It would be very interesting to look at the new Law on the relationship between the Government and the Parliament and the new Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. When I spoke about the conflict of deadlines then look at this, Article 15(1) of the Agency submits a report to the European Commission by 30 June of the current year for the previous year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Ministry of Finance delivers an annual State aid report in the work of the Republic of Croatia by the end of October. What this report means to the Government, and now, of course, the amendment and ex-post mind, the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivers a State Support Report to the Croatian Parliament on 15 November. We after June 30th what some of our people like in the jargon say we can sing combat songs. We can make whatever decision we want in this House, at the moment the Support Report goes to the European Commission, it's final, it's a final document. Because if you have seen this law final decision on support in the Republic of Croatia is made by the European Commission, they are making a final decision. And then I think I really don't see the point of the debate in this House when we're no longer satisfied or satisfied we can't change. And that's why I said that these domestic reports should be brought in line with the State Budget Report, and when all this is discussed here, then that report goes to Brussels because it's finally there. Because they'll say which support can go, which can't go. We can at the Parliament here say that this support may go, but Brussels will say it cannot go and we will first have to implement the decision of Brussels and that support recipient will have to return it. And about whether or not someone was working, it's a little bit more for me to tell you about a suitcase full of it. For two years, or a year and a half, you could do anything alive, start restructuring, no one would defend you. So he's saying someone didn't do something, and this is a big problem. And I say look at your colleagues and colleagues of the Law on the relationship between the Croatian Parliament and the Government, and you will see that this is in contradiction with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40058	Thank you very much. Replication response, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40059	Thank you. So about this, we're still a year and a half, that for a year and a half we've been in power and we're working, we're doing restructuring, we're working hard, we're working hard, we're doing private sector, we're doing public business. And we're hard to do, and it's hard decisions, hard decisions. Yes, yes, but I'm telling you these are difficult decisions because for the restructuring of the private sector where we receive businesses every day and talk about how to restructure their problems. [[Intruder Shucker: Others have worked hard too.]] These are open questions and we can talk about it freely. When you say that this government has done nothing and that this government does not actually care about corporate restructuring, we receive and talk to banks every day because so far the bank has not participated in the structure of the Croatian economy. No, they're not. For the first time in the Financial Business Act, the government sat down to say that the state could no longer bear the burden of restructuring the entire economy than the banking sector had to do. And that's what we brought through the law, and that's what we do. You have the numbers you'll see very quickly that the first companies went out. I'm talking about it that, in that part, you shouldn't be called either of these or that, that you recognize the crisis that the private sector in that part should be self-structured in 2009 when we spoke but that we took over in that part of the aid to restructure that part. So I didn't tell you if you needed this or that. It means that we also recognized that the part that is difficult decisions... so these are decisions that are much harder than in 2008 is now going to have to write down 70%, that restructuring was done in 2008. Maybe you should write off 30% of that part of the restructuring I was talking about. And I wouldn't be too scared about the EU Commission, so all of the support that they've been through so far has been AZTN and have been in line with the rules adopted by the EU Commission where there have been communications. So in that part, don't be afraid now that here's where we're going to send something to Brussels... something won't approve, and actually we'd rather have that if we approved it. And so far there's been this system, I'm saying if it was today's debate about it. There is a regulated AZTN system, according to EU rules, of the Commission, made such decisions. So about that part, we're going to have some bogeyman in Brussels now who won't approve of this support... it's not true. And that part will be approved as it has been.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40060	Drazen Djurovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40061	Thank you. Well, Mr. Lalovac, when you were talking about how the restructuring effects are not seen in macroeconomic indicators, you really don't see these measures that you take, they don't even see in microeconomic indicators, but maybe if you were or saw a debate yesterday about HBOR, you would notice from the HBOR representatives' reports that even in 2012, they didn't take part in investments in the Republic of Croatia and that HBOR couldn't do anything about it. However, the key to fiscal policy remains in your hands, not in the hands of the Croatian Parliament and monetary policy through the appointment of the governor of the CNB. Therefore, you cannot escape this responsibility that you have, whether the restructuring began in 2008 or the ninth. ... the restructuring began in 2002 or 2003 would be an even better situation so everything would be restructured by 2008 or the ninth, so we can't keep going back, we can go back to the '90s or '91s. So we can not think of defending anyone at all in any way, but this is the current situation as it is today, but the keys to all the measures are still in your hands and of course not in the hands of the Ministry of Finance is the policy that thinks it will solve the crisis through liquidity reduction and through the measures taken by the Ministry of Finance certainly won't work because that development stopper has no and detected responsibility... we have detected largely in banks we haven't found a way to start these banks these years and a half days or to press them to reduce interest to invest money and to finally move that wheel.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40062	The answer to Boris Lalovec's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40063	Thank you. When we talk about this part of the restructuring, I was saying that especially in that part of the private sector where since 2008, in 2009, when mass blockades started when the amount of liquidity in the Republic of Croatia was 18 billion kuna, when it exploded to 45 billion kuna that no instruments had ever been used, the legal instruments did not respond to that. So it didn't react to that part where it was supposed to react. We have now reacted to legal parts and managed in this part of the insolvency system where we need to unfreeze a large part of the property that unfortunately went into the real estate business. Real estate business and banks... in books, the company won't write off in its books, and it stands frozen a large part of the property and people don't get paid by a very complicated and complicated system. I agree with you, the banking sector, although it is going into the restructuring process in this section of the write-off in the part of further financing of the investment incentive has not shown itself. And what we tried in conversations with both the World Bank and the EBRD and the IFC as part of it we tried to look for in what way when you have a frozen banking sector where they simply don't want to take any further risk of funding but now in that part of the consolidation they don't want to give up capital. Can you restructure the company if you don't get extra capital, you won't, where we tried to create a... fund where the support and state would be through HBOR and through international financial institutions to give capital when the banks retreat. But look at that, we're saying that we're... We can force banks to lend loans. You know that we're with the CNB that there was a part of the discount reserve, but there was no real full effect. [[The speaker doesn't understand, he talks too fast.]] We're trying to get all models working and looking especially through trust funds where the banks in that part don't want to take any more risks. And I agree we can restructure the economy, however, without further credit investments, it will hardly be this part of the leverage. And I agree with you and the monetary authority should give support to the restructuring of the economy. The monetary authority that also shows itself in these other countries how it is done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40064	Young Novak replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40065	Thank you very much. My colleague Shuker actually took most of my replica because of this amendment. Indeed, what we will discuss when everything is defined, all instances pass, the EU Commission says its own and only then will we realize that the dead man has died. You mentioned in your speech the effects of the government. I'm not talking about him right now, but you're also talking about restructuring the economy, but now we have one case that's from Sisak that's me and the company's from Sisak, so it tickles me. The company is participating in a competition with the concessionaires for Zagreb Airport. Under the same conditions, our foreign company doesn't pass, and aren't those the effects of the government? Wasn't it supposed to find a way to favor one of our producers, one of our performers? So let's say the same in BiH in Zenica, the construction of the hall, these two same firms, that's where our firm passed. Here in Croatia is not passing, so there is something that is also the government's job, so it's not done. You need to find a way, don't you think there would be a way in Germany to protect a domestic contractor or another European country? In the end, you mentioned that it was questionable to look for the culprit for the previous periods. I wouldn't exactly agree, it's the wrong message, then we all remember that I'm not going to tell the historical one, but all the famous statements in this House are exactly who's bailing, he's bailing. Now it turns out we confirm that's the case. Okay, maybe you don't have to deal with it, but someone would have to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40066	And the last replica, Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40067	Thank you very much. Comrade Lalovac, you said that you had restructured the private and public sector and that the effects would be macroeconomically seen in the next period. The effects of this restructuring are already seen, the economic downturn last year is 2%, an increase of 35,000 unemployed, a decline in industrial production. And why, because there is no definition of restructuring. What you mean by restructuring, is restructuring the private and public sector just firing people, is it a change of owners, is it a sale of state property, is it an increase in energy prices. What he experienced from the restructuring was HEP, which was that Dioki, what Gredelj, was that over the night thousands of people ended up at the employment bureau. It's a restructuring. No, it's a broader concept of restructuring. Restructure implies also prolonging financial commitments and refinancing and technological modernisation, and not only what you have turned economic policy and restructuring into, reduce as many unemployed as possible, reduce economic activity, and all this affects that you would have to increase the tax audit due to the lack of production due to the reduction of economic activity. You're increasing tax rates, and you're impoverishing the entire population. This is not restructuring, or define what you mean by restructuring. You have turned it into nothing but layoffs of workers and all the problems in Croatia will be resolved if no one is working and we will only import goods from imports. That's not gonna work. Only problems arise when unemployment is. Unemployment has neglected and the IMF regrets today and writes works called mea culpa, mea culpa.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40068	Thank you. Replication response, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40069	Thank you. Here I would like you to come to the Ministry of Finance once and then see what restructuring means, what it means to talk to entrepreneurs, what it means to pro-long commitments, what it means to talk to banks that they have to write off 40% of the principal, that they have to give, extend the period to 20 years, their credit, what it means to restructure, to talk to investment funds for..., to invest, what it means to support the government through the FGS in the state budget to 360 million kuna to get into..., what it means to restructure, what it means to restructure the increase in HBOR's capital that gives five times more money than it gives to business banks. And regarding the employees, also related to these companies that you've been saying, I'd also like to see what were the elements of your restructuring in eight years, which is why these debts have accumulated and what have been the effects. So I'd very much like to invite you to come and see the talks where they're together for the first time at the table and suppliers and banks and states, that it's not just a burden to write off the state where we talk every day and that the effects of that will be seen. This policy that you've been saying is that it's just firing workers and it's a tax press, it's literally a demagogy that I don't really want to go into these discussions with. If you want to see one real restructuring of Dalekovod, come to the Ministry of Finance, then you will see what it means to talk to thousands of suppliers, which means to talk to 15 banks. Come and see what kind of big company is... in big trouble, which was blocked, which had exports out on the market, which means a real big restructuring. And now we're also waiting for other company types of Nexia and these other companies. So we can't talk about this part of what you're adding simply to the mathematics of the rejection of certain people because the Ministry of Finance said it would write off all the part of the debt where one job could be saved. And then you're gonna tell me that the policy of this government is to fire people. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40070	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. ... /The noise in the hall./... Please. ... I'm closing the debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll vote on the bill later. My colleagues and colleagues, before I set a break, we'll make an appointment for the afternoon... Too late to lift a tile. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, he can't do me any harm to the Rules of Procedure because I'm talking about how we're going to work this afternoon. Work on the point of the proposal for a law on special tax on coffee and non-alcoholic beverages, then the Customs Service Act, and since the committees have not done some points, and the parent committees are going to move to point 18, that is, the proposal for an annual implementation of the plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 and the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ID and possibly another point 22, the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Macedonia on Police Cooperation. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40071	Madam Vice-President, you were required to warn the Deputy Minister of State in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. He has no right to tell a representative you can talk like this to the Assembly MPs using the debate assembly. Government representatives are guests here and if they want to be welcome guests must behave according to the rules of the house they came to. So I can understand a colleague of Lalovec that he's nervous, because he's always saying something to do, and there's no result. And talking about someone not doing something is another pair of shoes. However, fellow Maric as a parliamentary representative may deliver his opinion but you do not have the right as a representative of the government to tell him you may or may not speak. You just don't have a right to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40072	My colleague Shuker and you have abused the Rules of Procedure now because you have spoken to the Minister, not to me, and then you have commented on his exposure. Therefore, I estimate there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. We usually run here and temperamental debates, and everyone who runs the session has a certain tolerance threshold. Thank you very much. Resume at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40073	Final draft law on state aid, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 364. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, representatives' clubs at the Croatian Assembly of the SDP and the HNS. I'd like the representative of the motionary, the respected Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec to come forward. Amendment number one of the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40074	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40075	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. We're going to the SDP and HNS Representatives' Club's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40076	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40077	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you. I find it unanimous with 107 votes for the adopted State aid Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40217	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. With - Final proposal of the Law on special tax on coffee and non-alcoholic beverages, second reading. P.Z. No. 342; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the motionary, Deputy Minister of Finance Boris Lalovac is with us. Deputy, here's your opening.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The application of the Law on Special Tax on Coffee and the Law on Special Tax on non-alcoholic Drinks is not in line with the basic principles of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU where the prohibition of discrimination and the abolition of all cross-border formalities is defined and does not respect the circumstances of functioning on the single market. Unlike the previous model under which taxation is regulated in two laws, the introduction of one law is proposed as a rational logical solution since most of the provisions in the subject matter of taxation and the level of tax are identical. The law maintains existing levels of taxation and plans to achieve indicative income equal to previous years. This means that in 2013 it is envisaged to make revenue to the state budget of 103.7 million kuna from the title of special tax on coffee and 101.1 million kuna from the title of the special tax on non-alcoholic beverages, i.e. around 213.9 million kuna. With regard to non-alcoholic beverages, it is important to note that these specific taxes are excluded as in the existing law products considered to be food for specific nutritional needs and food supplements. Also untaxed are natural fruit juices, vegetable juices, water without extra sugar, fruit juices and fruit nectar and fruit syrups. The subject matter of taxation in the part relating to non-alcoholic beverages is extended to waters with additional sugar or other sweeteners and aromatised water and non-alcoholic beer which was subject to taxation by 1.01.2010. The law also leaves a positive discrimination against one part of domestic producers, so-called domestic producers. "Non-emergent syrups." For coffee, the subject matter of taxation in the part relating to coffee remains almost the same with the proposal to abolish the taxation of unroasted coffee and coffee scales and opt-outs since it is not products intended for final consumption and as such are not subject to the excise taxation system. The level of special tax on coffee contained in the finished product with 60 kn per kg net weight and coffee contained in the finished product to 6 kuna means 10 times. If this is about the share of fried coffee in the finished product at 20 kuna net. This is necessary in order to ensure full consistency and uniformity in accessing the regulation of the level of specific tax and by model to other countries in which the level of the special tax is... depending on the content of each type of coffee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40219	I thank the Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Unless I'm opening a debate. On behalf of HDZ Representative Goran Maric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with Associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Tax policy is one of the most important and most sensitive instruments of fiscal policy, and fiscal policy is the most important instrument with monetary policy of the overall economic policy. Such a policy and policy will be our results. All macroeconomic indicators are always a reflection of economic policy. Whether it is successful or not, whether tax policy is successful or not, whether it is appropriate or not to give a policy response but gives macro-economic indicators. And all tax policies must be targeted, the tax framework must be created and created towards as good macroeconomic indicators as possible. Achieving those basic, fundamental objectives. Each measure, and in particular the tax policy, each tax change must be aimed at achieving the main macroeconomic objectives. Increasing production, price stability, making the balance of external trade more favourable, maintaining price stability and increasing employment. How much of this tax on coffee, which is proposed, will have a positive impact on the macroeconomic objectives set, will best be shown by current practice and contradictory decisions within the framework of the tax policy. How to interpret and explain the reasons why a decision to reduce VAT to a catering activity was first made to 10% where a reduction in prices was expected directly. That's all I had to expect right now, but it didn't get a price reduction, and in fact, only traders profited with at least one kuna per coffee. And now, instead of reducing VAT, we have an extra tax on both coffee and non-alcoholic drinks. That's a lot of contradictory solutions. How to explain the need to introduce the law and introduce the dividend tax that is with... application that the Constitutional Court has abolished. All of this shows that there is no systematic approach to tax policy, that there is no appropriate model that would be encouraged because if it were encouraged then we would not be the result of economic and macroeconomic policies as they are, and that is 2% in a year's decline in production. In a year, here's the exact data of 31,000 876 more unemployed than there were at the end of April last year, 21,000 746 unemployed with college and academy. The higher inflation rate is almost double the inflation rate, the reduced revenues of the state budget, with an increasing tax burden even including inflation tax. Obviously, tax policy is not appropriate, that tax policy is not encouraging but that it has actually become an obstacle, an obstacle to the development of the Croatian economy and society. We've had a crisis for five years, we've got a recession. And in the crisis and recession, instead of reducing the tax burden and expanding the base, we keep working on deepening tax rates, and narrowing down the tax base. She's also automatically narrowing down. The higher tax pressure it is, the less activity it is, and so the results show. What is meant to be achieved by any economic measure? What is wanted by any tax measure? There's no rare case of that being explained in any bill. What is to be achieved to further tax coffee and non-alcoholic beverages, to further tax mineral water? And what is to be achieved to reduce VAT reduction to catering activity? What is to be achieved by tax policy that VAT has 10% catering activity if pizza is eaten in pizza, and if it is brought home then is 25% VAT? What does that mean to accomplish? Will any of them achieve a macroeconomic goal? He won't. The time will come in a few days and then we'll change it, and then we'll fix it because catering isn't a catering activity? Why isn't progressive taxation applied in the crisis? No progressive taxation measures have been carried out. Why do taxes always get the poorest? Why is it that only the end-user pays for everything and the failures and the bad decisions of the economic policy-makers? There is neither selective access to tax policy nor progressive, and it is necessary under the conditions of the crisis. Only by redistributing the new one can we make the tax framework an incentive. So what will the Croatian economy compete with? Will it be the size of the market? He won't. Will it be new technologies? He won't. The only thing he can compete with is knowledge and his competitive advantage can be the tax system. And instead of using the tax system as a competitive advantage for us, the tax system makes it most impossible for us to develop domestic production. Although it's always trying to go back and let it go back, but let's take a step once where something will be stimulating for domestic production, where we will no longer have foreign trade measured in a negative balance between 6 billion and 7 billion euros. We import 7 billion euros more than we export on average every year for the last 6 years. Tax policy doesn't react. It is not a solution to say, so neither did you, the solution is to bring new models, encouraging models that will positively affect both production growth and employment growth and export growth. What measure is economic incentivising exports? I'm not responsible for any of this. Well, in socialism, exports have been fueled, and today we're not encouraging them. So the fate of the Croatian economy depends greatly on export products. And instead of progressive taxation instead of selective approach to fostering desirable phenomena, and taxes to combat negative phenomena, we have introduced a tax amnesty process and we think it will solve the problem, if we forgive those who illegally did not pay taxes and if we do not ask for more than 50 billion overnight, rather than looking for 20 billion kunas. Of course it's a complex procedure, I'm not going to say which companies, which have creditors of 2 billion kunas in pre-profit settlement, but how is it possible that 2 billion kunas have evaporated? Where's that capital? There's a lot of capital abroad. Billions of euros are abroad and have avoided paying taxes in Croatia. It's not a solution just to amnesty. Such solutions were made, but not in the field of taxes, but in some other areas. Such solutions negatively affect the fair part of Croatian entrepreneurship, such solutions lower the level of business and tax morality. The best salaries in Croatia are the poorest. Tax evac, even tax amnesty, has been experienced by those who are among the rich. Even pre-departure deals are reported by those who lead themselves to a situation of indifference because they will use this model of tax amnesty, so overnight they became inequitable, and the property has been converted from monetary form to other forms, and some have kept them in monetary form, but not in Croatian territory. Tax policy is looking at a lot of things, and that's why we have the negatives. No investment in long-term assets was recorded in the past year. Tax policy has affected as much social distance as possible. There's been a decomposition of society. Social distance has increased and the biggest generator of this has just become a tax policy and tax policy should be reduced in terms of the social difference crisis, rather than deepening them. Why the desired result has never yet been achieved. The VAT has been reduced to some other products, expecting to decrease the price to the end-user. It did not reduce prices, on the contrary, in several cases it did increase prices. Why unemployment is being ignored in Croatia, and this is not only now a problem and tax policy, but it is a deeper problem that 21 476 people with completed college have no business. Obviously, the education system is not appropriate either. But the state of society, the standard of society, the level of society's development depends solely directly on fiscal policy, and in the context of fiscal policy on tax policy. Tax policy must be taken into account by the taxpayer. As a rule, she ignored it, and she tends to ignore it today. The power of the taxpayer constitutes one of the most important tax principles to be included in the principle of justice. Under the conditions of the crisis, the rich must pay more and the poor less. They must, should, if we want to develop Croatian society evenly. Tax policy in general and thus accessing this law to everyone, and not everyone has the same position in Croatia. Unemployment is a reflection of the state of the economy, such as the temperature of health in the human organism. If the high temperature is not a healthy organism, if the high unemployment rate is regardless of economic growth, the situation in the economy is bad. This way, unemployment must not be ignored and it is not only the growth of GDP measures to measure the success or failure of a particular policy, but it is much more complex, and most of all must be taken into account the unemployment rate that has passed as much as 21.9% in Croatia, which is devastating for the future of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40221	Thank you. We've reported several replicas. Ivo Jelusic answered first. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40222	Comrade Marić, you've said a lot of things of course, it should take at least the same time to react to all of your words because I just have two minutes, I'll hardly be able to do it. You've said a lot in favor of your allegations of this government's poor tax policy. You did not specify any good, positive decision, law or measure of your authority which you did well, and we abolished. So obviously yours were all bad too, and you didn't have any good solutions. We've offered some and we think good. You mean bad. Well, that's something you can talk about. We've raised the truth to God VAT, but you've raised it, too. We raised it to reduce the tax contribution by the same amount, and in the register the state agreed the same, and you raised it and you didn't reduce anything. You're saying this policy doesn't encourage the economy. Well, of course not, namely the reduced health contribution that we left directly to the economy, we left over 2 billion kuna. Here you yourself mentioned VAT taxes on certain services in tourism so you mocked here a problem with pizza which is, of course, solved, which does not stand, of course, the one who consumes and the one who wears it is equally treated. However, you forget on purpose that on this basis over 900 million estimates are, and will likely be about a billion kuna will remain the economy, the tourism economy in the name of a reduced VAT from 25 to 10% on those services that have not been so far. A billion kuna there, there 2 billion in the name of a reduced tax contribution, 3 billion other economies. Well, isn't that a stimulating economy? Because you didn't think of it, until yesterday you were in power. Of course it's very economical, but it doesn't suit you to say it. I understand you, you're a good expert, and you're barely even hard on those thesises to point out that this tax policy is not right. I really understand you. It's hard for you to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40223	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40224	Thank you very much. I didn't make fun of anyone and nothing from my colleague Jelusic. It's not in my nature, nor will I ever do it. This is too serious a topic and the most serious topic that can exist in one country especially in recession conditions. Because it's tax policy that directs the future of all of us. Tax policy is either encouraging or unencouraged, whether or not it is. That's what I'm talking about. Whether a government was more successful or more unsuccessful about it is shown by indicators. Why didn't we introduce you, I wouldn't, you're witnesses here when I didn't really ever exactly support something that came out of line. But I said the same thing today. However, from some phonograms I recorded that individuals in your ranks spoke differently then and different today on the same subject, on the subject of VAT enlargement or other. Then it was a hack, then it was a predictive measure, and when it was 23 to 25%, it was an anti-resion measure. Any increase in tax rates under crisis conditions is a pro-resion measure. And there's no other answer. That's the answer. Is it in 2011. The GDP was flat zero. In two quarters there was growth, in two quarters there was a decline and it wasn't politicizing. It's a matter of statistics. In 2012, all four quarters were negative and the overall decline was 2%. Based on everything that seemed to the economy, based on your dissolving it, based on your tax incentives. The effect of this was the fall in economics, the effect of which was an increase in unemployment. And I'm telling you if there's economic growth, and an increase in unemployment, it's not a successful tax policy and it's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40225	Thank you. Next replica Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40226	Dear colleague Maric, we speak in other words but of the same or similar. It's important you said in your presentation what you want to achieve by a certain tax measure. You're also asking in connection with this law what is to be achieved by this law, this new date. Probably if there isn't anything we talked about earlier in the last item of the agenda, if there's no analysis then he wants to temporarily fill in an empty register. One of the important things you said in your presentation is your question why there is no progressive taxation especially at a time of crisis, at a time of recession. Labourers have proposed progressive taxation, however, we have received a reluctance with a mockery. They said when we advocate progressive taxation that we're populist, because it's a populist measure. This measure, which brings too many unemployed, so many unemployed who can no longer even survive this state-owned apparatus, is not populist. You said something else about populistism, actually a populist idea, and that's a redistribution of wealth. It's pure populism for the Social Democrats. Because when you want to take the rich and give the poor, it's populism, and when you want to take Super Hick to the poor, and give it to the rich, then it's this government's policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40227	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40228	My colleague Vukšić, when you spoke about progressive taxation and progressive rates, they are necessary because it is the only way to affect the change in structure. If this structure is desirable let's say it publicly in the introduction this structural structure is desirable and we don't want to change it. What is it that Croatian society wants with its economic policy? If we just listen from one institution that's the other leverage that this one doesn't do anything and that it's going to resign if it's an unstable sector that it's responsible for, and what's unstable is the whole real sector that nobody's answering to anyone. Having the same tax access, the same tax rates on water and luxury products is inadmissible in any democratic system. We abolished excise duties on luxury products, and introduced normally all taxes on water, and water is a physiological need. According to Masov’s theory of human needs, water enters the most basic, without water there is no life of the organism. If that demand fails, there are no other needs, it cannot satisfy any other needs of life. And now we're going to tax the water first, tax the water, and relieve all the wealth they acquire. Yacht one and water of the same tax rate, same tax system, same tax approach. This is not good particularly in the conditions of the crisis, especially because the crisis is an emergency. The recession is an indication that in economic policy something is wrong, it does not responds, its results are not positive. Let's change something to make it positive. That's why they showed up, and that's why we need to take care of all the hospitals for God's sake. What's gotten into it? No math, no calculations, no connected variables.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40229	Thank you. Next replica, Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40230	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Marić, you said in your debate that Croatia cannot be competitive with either the market or the technology, but that it could be competitive with the tax system. Of course, you said that this government, of course with this tax system, is not competitive with this tax policy. Well, the tax policy that this government is running is certainly the political responsibility of the government, and the citizens will say what they think of it. So the fact is that we did increase VAT, it's a typical consumption tax. So those who buy more, who spend more of it. By taxing certain foods that are of existential importance for the poorest citizens at the lowest possible rate, as well as water consumption. So, we have increased VAT by taking care of the most vulnerable groups of our citizens but at the same time we have reduced the contribution for health insurance from 15% to 13% just to reduce the labour price for Croatian entrepreneurs and just to make them more competitive on the world market. And when you talk about unemployment, I'll give you an actual example. So, the town of Čakovec in Međimurje County shortly ago opened a tender for public works, no one answered. With a number and a letter, no one. And otherwise, in similar situations, public works were reported exclusively by members of the Roma population, and not all of them, to be clear, were exclusively young men without children. So let's think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40231	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40232	Thank you. I told my colleague Jelash that the tax system can be a comparative advantage, that what the Croatian economy can have in a comparative advantage is the knowledge of people and the tax system. And that we didn't take advantage of that comparative advantage, and that's the only chance we have. Why? Because we didn't differentiate the rates of tax intro. We are equally burdened with production and capital. We don't tax financial transactions. Tax profits are equal in investment funds and in production. If we want to produce more, then we need to reduce the tax burden of production. If we want to encourage exports, we must take measures that will stimulate exports, not that will burden them. There is no selective approach, and a selective approach is necessary just to stimulate what we want and to destimulate what we don't want. But obviously we don't care what production is in Croatia and whether it's going to be or not, it's going to be less or more. But production's dropping. And you don't buy 'cause you don't have to buy anymore. People who are jobless, reduced income, reduced wages, lost their jobs, so how are they going to buy? They have no purchasing power, no income available, no income available. It also automatically affects production reduction. Well, they're mutual variables. That's what studies are supposed to be about, not making progress. We're missing a little tax on this contusion, let's raise our taxes. Well, a tax bite doesn't solve economic problems. And the Croatian economy suffered a tax bite.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40233	Thank you. And the last replica Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40234	The esteemed colleague seems to me in this debate on the proposal for a law on special tax on coffee and non-alcoholic beverages, you were the one who discussed the General Tax Law and the tax policy, though. At the same time, it seems to me that you forgot that you were part of the government that this coalition inherited and that there are some facts that could not have gone without. The pre-departure deal you mentioned and tax amnesia was also voted by the HDZ Club aware and in good faith that there were a quarter of the tradesmen left in the blockade for more than a year, a third of the total entrepreneurs in the blockade for more than a year with a total of about 70,000 employees and that there was a need for urgent and radical measures to save that part of the economy, especially one that, once they were freed from taxes from the state, provided space to make up for that tax in the long term by continuing work and employment. And these are important items of pre-demand settlement and amnesia tax certainly is not to those who will no longer be the owners, and through the OIB which fellow Shucker correctly states, the Tax Administration and the competent institutions will adequately check whether certain actions have occurred that are not permitted that no one will essentially be amnested from the way that money is not being put into its own pocket by paying the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40235	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40236	My colleague Gjurkovic was not talking about tax amnesia but about the tax amnesty process. These are different terms, although I agree that there is and can also be used amnesia. But I was talking about tax amnesty. The law on financial fiscal responsibility, financial responsibility and pre-departure settlement calls itself contradictory in nature. What does fiscal responsibility and pre-warrant settlement have to do with it? If there is something to be solved about bankruptcy, then let it be part of the bankruptcy law, and not in the same law, we have what we are talking about and determining fiscal responsibility, financial business, the way and at the same time predicting a pre-determined settlement. It's unnatural that it's in the same law contained. And why did I speak wider? Because this tax, special tax on coffee and non-alcoholic beverages is not appropriate because we have a special water tax and a non-alcoholic drink juice that we produce in Croatia, and we do not have a special tax on the biggest luxury. It is something that is counterproductive and that, as an economist and professor, I cannot support regardless of politics. This isn't politics this is economics, and you keep going back to the political platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40237	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40238	Final draft law on special tax on coffee and non-alcoholic beverages, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 342. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 79 votes in favour, 28 against and one abstention, have been passed the Law on special tax on coffee and non-alcoholic beverages in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40239	We continue with - Final proposal of the Customs Service Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 340 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the motionary Deputy Minister of Finance Boris Lalovac. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40240	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Customs Service Act addresses issues relating to the jurisdiction and tasks of customs services and the organisation and powers of speciality in the rights, obligations and responsibilities of customs officials. By entering the Republic of Croatia, the customs administration is obliged to assume the role of fiscal and security protection of the EU as a whole and to ensure the free movement of goods between EU member states and third countries. The Republic of Croatia is becoming part of the EU's single customs space on 1 July 2013 which implies the abolition of border customs exposures towards countries towards EU countries and in Italy, Slovenia and Hungary. Out of the total foreign trade of goods, the Republic of Croatia generates 61% with the EU. It has been cited as a consequence of the reorganisation, modification of the structure and mode of operation of the current customs establishments for intra-country customs customs duties. What is important to say is that what is changing is an organization for the effective achievement of the planned objectives, it is proposed to establish customs services at three basic levels as a central office as is now one, the regional customs office means 4 customs offices of regional Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek and customs offices and border customs offices 18+10, it is related to border crossings. The work of the central office remained largely the same, the regional customs offices are new organisational forms that are larger and more significant than the customs offices so far. Customs offices shall be set up within the territory of the Republic of Croatia except for customs duties and the strengthening of excise duties and specific taxes. The primary activity is related to surveillance tasks, while border customs offices are formed on the border line and are carried out in so-called ‘the border’. customs border operations. ... these tasks are the responsibility and result of years of observation of good practice applied in the customs services of EU countries. What is also new in this law is the extension of the jurisdiction and business of the customs service with its administrative and technical capacities, wants to join as an equal service to other competent services and agencies in helping and operating the effective repression of so-called. The grey economy on the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. In the context of new competences, businesses are focused on supervisory activities, for example, in the area of preventing unregistered waste management activities in the area of general product safety in the field of marine freshwater fisheries. The establishment of customs offices also achieves territorial competence, which is of paramount importance for future supervisory activities. Customs officers will carry out surveillance tasks in all open and closed spaces. Also, the appointment based on the public tender of the Director, Deputy Director and Assistant Director and Head of the Regional Customs Office is what is important to say that after the next parliamentary elections, there is still a new establishment in that part of the election and appointment of the Director. So the Customs Service is set up as a modern, professional career service. The introduction of customs titles will allow hierarchical recognition and career structure that allows the system of progress in relation to the achieved levels of knowledge, skills and work experience. What's important is to say that we have very similarly adapted to the existing system as we did several years ago and the police had a new structure, so very similar in that part has been rerouted and reorganised and customs administration. I'd just like to have a few data here, since I don't say extra jobs, by removing certain exposures, we've been taking care of it in this part of the part that we said we'd expand certain customs operations especially in the field of the gray economy, which have a fiscal effect where we're going to give and secure through these new jobs that we can stay in service anyway. I would briefly tell you from 1.7.2012 to today the number of people who are somewhere planned means last year since 1.7.2012.there were around 3091 employees really employed in customs. Today it is 2997 there somewhere 94 officers less with that most of it also either crossed already at that first stage or they were looking by various other services we tried to organize their business. Also, the total is now 238 customs employees. The realisation of the transfer is under way, so I'll tell you at the Ministry of the Interior is 44, in the Ministry of Finance, part 11, a very large part goes to the IRS about 103, also to the State Inspectorate, Ministry of Justice 66, Ministry of Transport 10 and other services. So we make sure that all the employees who tried on these jobs especially was it difficult when you worked at those border crossings now to switch them to other border crossings than we tried to find them where they lived where they lived and worked to find new activities within other organisational services. It is also important to say that by the end of the year about 29 employees will retire. In this period 39 went into retirement so that somewhere around 2700 customs officers are somewhere scheduled for this first and second phase of reorganisation. But we believe that these new..., especially in the field of gray economy, in the field of product quality and general product safety, where colleagues from customs who have very good knowledge, who have worked on their jobs will also replace in businesses that will also have a significant fiscal impact. So the government was guided by the social criterion that let's say, however, this organisation that happens because of joining the European Union that most of it does not lose its job but that it is found by other services, and within those who couldn't find that it actually redistributed them to these jobs that customs will actually behave in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40241	Thank you, too. Goran Maric reported on the replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40242	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovac, there is no segment in Croatian society that does not require rationalization. There is no state cost where it is not possible to carry out rationalisation and it is good that you have also joined rationalisation in the customs service because the entry into the European Union changes a lot, and the scope of the work that you have already intervened and you have abolished some customs branches. You said yourself you were working on a new form of customs service. True rationalisation would be done if the Customs Service and the Customs Administration were in the IRS system. There is no reason if so far it has been because of the scope of the job, because of the number of employees, because of the organisation, that the Customs Service is currently not in the Tax Administration system and that the Director of the Tax Administration is in charge of the Customs Service because customs is a kind of tax. In many countries, this is the case, and most likely would have been the effectiveness of the Customs Service because so far, it has been often the case that because of the non-information they have not even been linked to customs bases, that the freighter who owed at the Customs Exhibition Rijeka went because of the debt customs duty in Sibenik because Sibenik does not know that Rijeka owes. And then there's a tax debtor at the Ministry, so three, four sides of it must collect information on which grounds it owes. Real rationalisation would be that and eventually it would be necessary to do so for the full efficiency of the entire Ministry of Finance, and everything else can only be explained by the need for someone to have a higher level of leadership or some state status which is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40243	Thank you. Does anyone want to take a word on behalf of the working bodies? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40244	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Assistant. Col. Marić, this law is not about rationalisation, and what Mr. Lalovac was saying is simply the result of the disappearance of hundreds of km of borders towards the European Union, and the existing border practically exists in Bosnia. Therefore, the exclusive reduction in the number of people is the consequence of this, but it is also one of the main things to be discussed in this law because this law, if it is seen by lawyers, they may find something that might be one way or another. If it's seen by people who are professionals in labour law, it's the same way, if they look at unions, so anyone can find some kind of point that they like something. However, what I said about this law, and I said the last time, it was basically made so that the Croatian customs office was organised as well as most of the customs services in the European Union and finally from 1.7. when we enter the European Union, then after certain protocols are signed, all of which, in the end, Croatia will be somewhere over a thousand kilometres of land border, practically the borders of the European Union and Croatian customs officers will do work for the European Union. However, what I would certainly like to repeat again in the debate, frankly speaking, is not clear to me this last paragraph to say, in the light of this law where the motion says that, in relation to the observations and proposals made during the meeting of the Croatian Parliament at the Proposed Customs Service Act, we have now been numbered by a number of opposition MPs, the proposal states that, after all the remarks, proposals and opinions were carefully considered, it did not accept it because the remarks are general and do not refer to the text of the bill. So I don't think that the observation that we're looking for information is, and I'm glad Mr. Lalovec has provided some information that we unfortunately as parliamentary representatives couldn't get, regardless of the repeated demand on the Committee on Finance, to get exactly how many employees there are in customs. Now Mr. Lalovac is talking about 3051, but that's irrelevant to 3,000 employees whether it's 50 or more or less. Why this is very important, because when you look at the qualification structure, then you will see that 60% of employees have medium professional equipment and lower professional equipment, and when you look at what the Deputy Minister said, so I will not speak but simply call on what he said, so these 1,000 and some other people, 200, who have high and higher professional equipment, cannot answer these tasks themselves. So the problem is the qualification structure of 1750 medium professional training and 34 lower professional training, therefore, and with all due respect to those people who did that customs job fairly, correctly, but they cannot simply respond to certain requirements and later I will refer to an article that I consider to be very important and to the powers they receive. Because look, if and in the IRS, if in the State Inspectorate, if I say so to any other repressive services in the State, inspectors, independent inspectors have high or at least higher professional training, but then they must have certain years of work experience, to get special powers. Because having an inspector's badge is special powers. So why did I last talk a lot about it, and that is why I knew what customs expected in the coming period. Honestly, I can't agree that customs and the IRS are placed in the same basket because it's simply something that doesn't go into the same basket. Because it's so different that I just can't go into the same basket, at least not with us for a whole new year. So, I expected us to get the information, given that all the border crossings towards Hungary, Slovenia, Italy and that sea section are missing, to tell us how many people are based on this law, so not on what someone wants but on the basis of this law, based on the new structure of which the deputy minister spoke, so how many people to cover this need. For the simple reason that it will then be said that out of these 3,000 whether 50 or 2997 it doesn't matter is an excess of 500, 600, 300, 400, it doesn't matter how many people but it's too many. The second thing, given that it was also said by the deputy minister, since these customs crossings in northern Croatia have disappeared, those people who will stay working in customs will have to move south and ask whether they will be able to return to their permanent residence every day. If they're going to come back, they're going to pick up the transport costs, everything. The other thing is, unfortunately, we don't have that so-called. personnel, although it would be good for these inspectors and supervisory services to rotate after so many and so many years to simply move out of one area and put them in another area. It would probably be far less stories and probably be more efficient work, but unfortunately at this point we're not materially in such a situation to do so. So certain things have to happen. And since it's about human destiny and since we're going to raise our hand for this law or be against it as who, I think we should've gotten that information as Parliamentarians. I don't see any reason for what the deputy minister read that he couldn't get every MP on the bench. I simply don't see why, by the way, it was more of a request on the Finance Committee. So it wasn't something that wasn't required. But I'm saying, it's as it is, so I think you should take care of these people, take care of their existence, take care of their schooling, especially those who deal with excise goods. We are, we have a big border towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. You will see now after the next increase in excise duties for cigarettes will be in Croatia, and what excise duties for cigarettes will be in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As soon as you have a big difference in taxes, so-called. High tariff goods, and these high tariff goods are goods that have excise duties, and then they are a very fertile area for smuggling. Because if it's a difference in the price of cigarettes 50, 60 or 100 kuna, then it's certainly very interesting to carry it across the border and sell it in such a way, but it's something that's been going on for many years and it's a problem whenever you have someone in the neighborhood who has a lot, much lower excise duty than you do. Also different ways of calculating excise duties and as far as oil derivatives are concerned, so excise stores of alcohol, all together. So something different than it was before. And that's why it was very interesting to see of these existing 1200 people with high and higher professional training that they will be deployed, how many people will stay in the customs office in Jankomir, New Zagreb, somewhere else. What will happen to the customs station in Krapina or Goricana, so where there were bigger customs offices and where these people will go and where they will go. So that's something I don't think matters about this law. And now what I think we need to discuss here in this House anyway, because it wouldn't happen to us tomorrow if the Board of Appeals and the protection of human rights were covered by various remarks. It is therefore an article 49 which states in paragraph 1 that an authorised customs officer may enter and review, search business premises, premises, land and facilities for the purpose of conducting surveillance. It can't be done today by the police, by the inspector, by no one without a warrant or anything. So, this provision if we vote this customs officer gets practically unlimited power to do whatever he wants. In fact, Article 3(3) of the same Article states that an authorised customs officer will inform the responsible person before entering and reviewing paragraph 1 of this Article and request that he attend the review. Exceptionally, if special circumstances so require, an authorised customs officer may give notice after entry and from the beginning of the examination. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So we're giving authority. I don't know if any of the repressive services in Croatia have such powers, and one repressive service. I know tax inspectors don't have this kind of authority. So, the tax inspector, if it comes out correctly, is also known to the police. The police can't run a search without some special warrant. So this is something that opens up the possibility of harassment, the possibility of self-will, the possibility of anything. So I'm saying the ultimate negativity that can happen to us. Because when it's ideal, then it's ideal, then there's no problem. However, since it is about people who have therefore committed some sort of crime of smuggling or something, the logical thing is that they will in all ways try to prevent evidence from coming to light. If you open this, if you don't have trained people, then you end up using guns and everything else, then you can think about what might happen. So, I'm just asking the promoters to see how this sort of thing is solved in other countries, can it just get into someone's apartment? Because when you come to someone's apartment, if there's one right there, there's a check-in and a surrender, you have right at the apartment if you're told there's an address, that they can go into the apartment and check it out. You don't have an exact definition of what part of the apartment applies to business space. ... I know what it says. I read it all well. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But you haven't defined which part of your apartment is your business space. It could be the living room. So I'm just telling you that this is very, very dangerous and that this should be considered. And you do whatever you want. And I'm going back to article 64 and I still think that these provisions that have to be fulfilled by the director are simply ridiculous. I think that, apart from the teacher of kindergarten who clearly managed to install the law that the headmaster of kindergarten can be the only raiser, and can't be a teacher, they can't be a teacher, they can't deal with children so we're also trying to install in Customs Law that the Director of Customs Administration can say at least 15 years of working experience on jobs from the department of customs and tax services, internal affairs and other security inspection services. So it's not the office of the Director of the Customs Administration to go into the inspection labs, performs control and all but the function of the Director of the Customs Service is to arrange the service that it works. So, I think it would be far more important here if the Director of the Customs Administration had organisational abilities that he was some kind of director, head of the administration or something that simply knows how to set up a system to function, not to know how to exercise control. So it's a total failure. So, do we at the head of the Customs Administration want a man who's going to organize a system to function or do we want a man who's going to walk around doing inspection surveillance? And according to these provisions here, that's exactly it. Because now you're going to say that a member of some big corporation in Croatia is reporting to the Director of the Tax Administration he can't possibly have the conditions to become Director of the Customs Administration because he can't have 15 years of work experience from the department of customs, tax, internal and other security inspection and supervisory services. Well, I think it would be far more important here if he had, like, 15 years of financial work or some kind of legal work than this. So, then the next nonsensus in that provision, for at least 10 years at the workplace of a government official. So again, we've confounded that Customs can't get anyone out of the state service. Ten years as head of state. So you and the head of state's chief of staff from the office are somewhere in a certain way. Because there's a big office in court and he's also a government official. And so he can come to Customs, he has conditions, but let's say the head of the administration of some big company can't come because he doesn't have 10 years of experience in the state service. And Article 65, this is particularly interesting. The Director may be dismissed before the expiry of the period on which he is appointed under the terms of his personal request, for the purpose of permanent incompetence for the operation and behaviour of the function, provided that the executive decision has been identified as responsible for the serious violation of the official duty or the termination of the service by force of the law. So, the only way you can replace him is if you kill him, I mean, I'm cartooning. I'm sorry, maybe in a harsh way, but another way to replace the director of the administration within five years of how long he's been in office, you don't have. Because his term lasts for five years, so if he didn't commit a crime, there's nothing you can do to him if he hasn't gotten sick, so he can't function like that, and you can't change him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40245	Thank you, fellow Shuker. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40246	Here's another sentence. The same story is for the jobs of the head of customs officers. So that's what I've been talking about for the last time and I'm really sorry that the legislator thinks it's irrelevant to the law because I think this is very important because it's about those who are going to implement this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40247	Thank you. We have one replica on your exhibit, Goran Maric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40248	Thank you very much. I did not say that this Customs Act would contribute to rationalization but I was saying that each segment has a space for rationalization and that it would be a real rationalisation in the Customs Service. But the fact that this one, under quotes, will also lead to some objective circumstances to new unemployed people, somewhere around 1,000. Requalification is also expected, and it is also mentioned that most will focus on curbing the grey economy. This notion of curbing the gray economy is quite stretching and vaguely defined. And as far as requalification is concerned, I don't know what people in Croatia could be overqualified to get a job today, which is what the Croatian economy craves, let alone requalified people who are at a later age because it is a simple process often almost impossible. As regards these conditions around the Director of the Customs Administration, these are unsustainable conditions, it cannot be logical or reasonable to support such conditions. Imagine that the director of nature park is only wanted to be the one who ran nature park for 15 years. Or that the hospital director could only be the one who ran the hospital for at least 15 years. This is a typical example of discrimination when we have been talking about discrimination in Croatia lately. And as for your opinion on the relationship between the IRS and the Customs Administration, it makes sense that different opinions are welcome. Because we just need arguments for each other and get to the right solution because if we all think the same thing, then we're not even beginning to think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40249	Thank you. We have your colleague Shucker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40250	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Why did I say rationalization? Because you said it and something in the context of what the deputy was saying. But what I insist on from the beginning and on behalf of the club, and on the committee, is to show us that the situation with the employees is for the simple reason of the fate of several hundred people. The second thing is, it doesn't matter how Saturday and Sunday and midnight the customs officers worked at customs crossings, and now they're going to go to some state service where they're going to get paid on ho ho ho less. It's not the starting coefficient, it's what they've been earning. The second thing, most of these people who worked at customs at the border crossing have already had one requalification in their professional career, very few have been trained and trained to work at customs crossings, have already come from some other jobs especially in the 1990s and have requalified. So that's something to discuss. I know well when we began negotiations that at that time it was said that several thousand police officers would be missing from Croatia as far as Schengen is concerned and that the Customs Administration and the Ministry of Police, i.e. The MUP, i.e. The police department needs to discuss how to solve this problem with each other. And as far as customs and tax normal things are concerned, everyone has their own thoughts on everything, but I think the key thing is that the Customs Administration is in this form of stalkers to establish, and then about the collection of certain taxes at the border can be discussed later because I repeat there is key excise goods and it is a pity that the Financial Police and the people who worked in the Financial Police are not moved to the Customs Authority to take over the business of excise goods because I repeat us with BiH share over a thousand km of borders, and there is a big difference in excise duties above all on alcohol and cigarettes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40251	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of Croatian Labourists Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40252	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with Associates. Here I will read the last paragraph, it seems to me that only one sentence of the reasoning of this law reads, "In relation to the comments and proposals made during the meeting of the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Customs Service Act was made by representatives Ivan Šuker, Mladen Novak, Branko Vukšić, Ana Lovrin, Stjepan Milinković and Zlatko Tušak, who stated that after the comments, proposals and opinions were carefully considered, he did not accept them because the remarks are general and do not refer to the text of the bill". It's just a lie because Mr. Shucker was just talking, and we were talking about the same thing. He was talking about the terms of the competition for the head of customs. The same thing I've been saying, and I think my colleagues have talked about how everyone can be head of customs. What counterpart Maric said is that some people are discriminated against in this law. If you want more concrete what needs to be done more concretely? Change marks, screamers and adopt us. Therefore, this is incorrect and in fact underestimating all those mentioned here by name and last name, underestimating their debates and underestimating the opposition in the Croatian Parliament, however, it is not the first time or the last time likely. So the competition that is mentioned here is quite certain that they can even collapse in court because they are discriminating against all those capable people who can carry out far before those who are foreseen by this law. Too bad it hasn't been written yet who these people can be bosses. So it's true it's given to people who are already working in customs no matter what their expertise is. One of the biggest problems with this law of the text of the law, which we also warned in our first reading, is Article 49 and Article 59. The 49th article allows customs officers to have more authority than the police, in fact customs officers under this law as provided for by this law have the jurisdiction of the court and the police together. Article 59 of the regulation read it, which the customs officer must speak when entering because he allowed himself without a court order, so he first told himself that I would now enter in without a court order because I am both a judge and I am the one who will, pardon the arrest. So then he yells, "Stop, I'll shoot, etc." So this violates serious civil rights. This is what got us a commission. Therefore, as a result of this Article 49, 59th and the conditions and regulations in which the heads of customs administrations are elected are not able to obtain a passing assessment. In other parts it may be the most correct, but if the law tramples civil rights, if it threatens the security of the citizens of the Republic without deciding on it in all other cases, the court must decide to invade someone's apartment, business space because I think it said Mr. Shucker, I when I had a company my business space was in the living room because I had in my own apartment I had a business space. So a customs officer can come with a gun and yell, "I'm gonna shoot." I'll shoot too. There are things that we need to worry about, that in this way, that the Customs Service of Civil Liberties at all is supposed to be, I don't think it's honorable for this Parliament. I guess that's in the opening statement, actually in the final this time it comes down to extending the jurisdiction of the Customs Service. Yes, that is, extending the jurisdiction of the Customs Service because it takes prerogatives and police and court. I agree entirely with those who have spoken about curbing the grey economy of a new customs system that will be adapted to the establishment of the customs services of the European Union, particularly those customs services bordering, which are the borders of the European Union. The question is what does it mean, how this gray economy is going to stop. Is that one floscule because we've been fighting with the gray economy since you remember Titus's five-year-olds, so we've never been with that gray economy. It was the same at the time of the communist floscule in the gray economy, so today it flossule in the gray economy. One of the important things is exactly what colleagues used to say, the structure of personnel employed in the customs service. 60% of SSS employees don't mean they have to stay that 60% with the Soviets, there's a schooling. So that's what we've been talking about here all the time at the Parliament speaker, talking about lifelong education. That is, the task of not getting these customs officers fired, not to have these customs officers sent on the road, but to enable them to go to school and to obtain a degree that will allow them to stay in the Customs Service during a certain period of time. For Croatian Labourists, once again, the law is unacceptable because of these provisions of Articles 49 and 59 and the way tenders for customs chiefs will be opened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40253	Thank you, too. We have a replica of Ivan Shuker on your exhibit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40254	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What I did not have time to say in my debate, which is this part of Article 59. My colleagues and colleagues, I find it extremely unacceptable that the way to carry and use firearms is prescribed by the Minister of Finance. The use and carrying of firearms can only be prescribed by the Home Secretary. And again, it's all good while it's good, it's all good until things go a little bit extreme. You see which colleagues in the MUP have problems and how far the law defines, some of their internal rules of use of official weapons and how much God does not give when a policeman has to use it, how many arguments and everything has to write about the justification of the use of that weapon. And we're so easy to bring here, look, this is how we put customs officers in one hell of a difficult situation. Maybe if this law said that the rules and the way to use, carry and use weapons were the same as the cops, so at least people would know what that was. Because the Minister of Finance cannot prescribe something that is contrary to the provisions prescribed by the Minister of the Interior. It's the same story that some law by the Ministry of the Interior says some tax laws will be prescribed by the interior minister. It's simply not in his jurisdiction. And so I said, when you look at this, the appointment of a director, it's four articles when you dig more then you'd still find some things, and these are just things that just aren't good and it might be good that this law is not yet dependent on anything to either go into third reading or to postpone voting on it, to... consult with colleagues from the Ministry of the Interior. Let me tell you the truth, given that I was 7 years in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I resent that these things can be passed through the Office of Law and that I am very interested in a colleague of Lalovec, a colleague of Grabar, who has made any remarks on these provisions of his colleagues from the Ministry of the Interior. Did they give you a positive opinion on this law? I'd really like to see, God forbid a fellow customs officer pulls out a gun after 1.7 and, say, fires into the air, what kind of procedure would he have to explain? I mean, you're bringing people into this one hell of a difficult situation that's going to do the job.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40255	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40256	Dear fellow Shuker, yes, it is foreseen by this law that the finance minister prescribes conditions for carrying arms, but nowhere does it say that all weapons carriers must undergo psychophysical preparations. So it doesn't say here, I guess it means they have to go through psychophysical preparations. However, Articles 49 and 59, when read carefully and what they actually allow, in the United States, many civil liberties were violated on 11 September temporarily, after 11 September and civil liberties were never returned to US citizens. It didn't happen to us on the 11th of September, and only on the 1st of July will happen, and we will end civil liberties by breaking into our flats in a customs office with guns and yelling "stop", I will shoot. That looks funny, but this is tragic. And that no one, not even from the ruling coalition, would mind. It doesn't matter, so why don't the customs come to the apartment with guns. That's really sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40257	Thank you. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Lalovec with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Neither will the HDSSB club accept the Final Proposal for a Customs Service Act. In this Article 59, Croatia appears to be turning into the wild west. If at least a little of what's been caricated in the Vuksic debate, but it will be in reality, so it will come true. With all that covered for this kind of behavior, so stop customs, I'm going to stop shooting, the gun in my hand kind of reminds you really of the wild west. In addition to all of this, paragraph 10 of Article 59 states that the type of firearms and ammunition used by authorised customs officers referred to in Article 54(1) of this Regulation is prescribed by the main, not the excuse, Government of the Republic of Croatia. If it can look like the wild west, we can say the chief sheriff of the Republic of Croatia. What's getting customs? A paramilitary unit that will break into apartments for people watching TV, enjoying the afternoon, etc. Or enter the dwellings of the people whom he is not at home, and when he comes, behold, he sits with his gun drawn, and waits for him to come back from somewhere. Let's just imagine situations that can happen, that all situations can happen by adopting legislation like this. In addition to this article 59, which actually gives more authority to customs than to the police and which did not foresee at all, therefore the possibility that the police would be involved with the customs officer, so in the uniform of a police officer. Therefore, none other than customs officials are provided for when entering or entering an apartment, either with the approval of the person whose apartment or house, were without the approval that it is stated here that in exceptional cases, or in cases where the customs business requires it, where there is probably a tip that would be said to enter the apartment without the presence of the person who owns the apartment at all. And not only can a customs officer so come in with a weapon to yell stand, halt, customs he has the right to use and spray, it says here in one of the articles I saw it. Therefore, other measures of physical measure, thus overcoming the one to whom it was designated to carry out customs supervision. In those articles that Mr. Shucker spoke of, so here's the entry into, the authorised customs officer that can, like the court and the police together, enter the rooms or spaces that, with the presence or presence of the person whose place, who owns that apartment or is in a tenant's right, or should I say go in and out of that space, that's really what I'm saying, I'd say a little bit alike, and here we were just discussing a little bit as unofficially as the paramilitary units, like the commandos that go in and out. Now, Croatia will enter the so-called Schengen mode question when. The second that borders between Slovenia, Hungary and Croatia stop, as Slovenia and Hungary become members of the EU, and then this part of customs services from the border with Hungary and Slovenia, so there will be a shift to say south to 1,000km of the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina and to some 150,200km of the Danube border with Serbia. Is there going to be an extra officer in the customs service? Will 1,000 people have to be fired? How will they be taken care of? It may be much more necessary to say and more specifically determine where with them, how they will be cared for. The fight against the gray economy. What does it mean to fight the gray economy? Such an undefined term. I wonder who's fighting the gray economy and where they'll be taken care of, and if that intrusion as I would say to Mr. Maric at first that they should, therefore, be under control or together with the tax service would also be allowed to debate. Customs, tax, excise duty are all these terms that are for the Ministry of Finance, and also for the IRS, so I'm not going to say unique, or they're in use and they're actually the ones that are very close. And the IRS here I see that I am now saying, excuse me, the Ministry of Finance is re-establishing I would say to you, either from the area or from the time of old Yugoslavia, those ancient Yugoslavia actually functioning the finances that followed tobacco smugglers, and I don't even know what they're even fighting with them, like saying paramilitary troops or the Wild West into which they're going to turn into border crossings, and what about when a customs officer gets into Grgurević or Celikovice or Brcino and Ravan in Brod-Posavina County looking for a rakia wheel. And that's the job of the Customs Administration because it's a provision that you have the right to produce only 50 liters of brandy for personal use. A boiler is charged at the size of 200 kn per year. And that's Customs at the Customs Administration of the Republic of Croatia. And it's already happening that this is exactly how the customs officers go around our villages looking for the rakia roasters. And now that's happening. However, we in Slavonia have reported many, or many, reports, and I have not even reported such a boiler, so here are fewer and fewer such violations in the sense that someone does not report a brandy boiler. All in all, in view of these, to say very dangerous and dangerous articles of the law, i.e. from which various cases may arise, I say, in particular, in Article 59 and these paragraphs, which are mentioned here in Article 55, which states that the authorised customs officer referred to in Article 54 of this Act may use the means of coercion, if there is, if it has been forced and if it is trained. So, under the conditions provided for by this law. The means of coercion within the meaning of this law are body strength, a sprayer with an irritable substance, a means of binding even, watch out for these binders and firearms. So, a customs officer has the right to master a clear offender, conditionally speaking, and to tie up and bring in such a thing as the Police, or like Doc Holiday from movies in the wild west, is it a violation of the customs code? I think this law should be completed and it would be good if it were withdrawn and directed to read again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40259	Thank you, too. We've registered three replicas. Branko Vuksic first answered. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40260	My colleague Grubisic, you said I gave a cartoon description in the customs raid of the apartment, i.e. the customs officer's behaviour. However, the Vienna painter and you remember him well at first was a very caricature. The failed painter eventually began drawing with streams of blood. On September 11th, all Americans would sign what happened to the American government, and this was denied by many civil rights. Today, however, they repent of allowing such a thing because these rights have never been returned because today they can still raid apartments under suspicion of being a terrorist. They don't need a warrant, they just need to suspect you're a terrorist. Until you prove you haven't spent 10 years in prison. Here all they have to do is suspect you're smoking other people's cigarettes or you don't have a cigarette stamp and they come into your apartment. This is the beginning. That's why we need to scream at the beginning and somebody's gonna say it, so it's no big deal. That's scary!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40261	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40262	It is good that we do not enter Europe on July 4th or in some dictionary of July, would that be Fighter's Day, then this law would fit completely into all of these.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40263	Next replica, Igor Radjenovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40264	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. - "The authorised customs officers referred to in Article 18(2) of this Act shall be entitled to carry firearms and ammunition in the entire customs territory of the Republic of Croatia." Article 2 "The authorised customs officers referred to in Article 2 shall have the right to carry firearms and ammunition while carrying out operations in official customs uniforms and, exceptionally, civilian clothing on the orders of a superior if there are justified reasons." Article 3 "The manner of carrying and using firearms is prescribed by the Minister of Finance." Bad, dangerous articles, Doc Holiday, etc. You know what I read to you? An existing Customs Service Act passed in this House. My first term, Mr. Vuksic, is the same, and this is the law passed in this assembly. I'll also read you the 2010 Official Journal. Regulation on the manner of handling and use of the means of coercion of authorised customs officers of the Ministry of Finance and the Customs Administration. The rule is 12, if I'm not wrong, articles, that's 12. Article 10 says: "A authorised customs officer shall carry and use short firearms and ammunition in the entire customs territory of the Republic of Croatia when carrying out customs controls and customs checks according to specific rules." Signature of the Rules of Procedure of the Vice-President Bravo, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Finance Minister Ivan Shuker, with authority. [[Intruder: Vice President.]] There's no gentleman here, but just so we know what we're talking about. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40265	Thank you. We have your colleague Grubisic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40266	Thank you very much. It's a good thing you read it. I'm against that law you've read and that former law. However, when you look at the content and text of that law, it seems to me if I understand you well, given that we are quite far and wide and politically, so I think the formulations were milder. You have to admit it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40267	Thank you. The next replica of Davorin's Mlakar. Here's your colleague, Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40268	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Grubisic, so what you were saying was that I wanted to replicate. You spoke of Article 59 and 58 of the Law which speaks of this arming of customs which is here, regardless of what was provided for by earlier laws was not done. And we have a different and different authority that understands the needs better and civilised behavior, and now we have come to the point that a dangerous man who calls himself dangerous in the fight for his own principles under Article 59 of the Code of Conduct and the use of firearms is prescribed by that finance minister who no doubt understands himself well in arms. That's what he said the other day in his own dangerous intentions. However, I have replicated because the Croatian Constitution says that the apartment is invulnerable, and according to the rules of this law now armed customs officers, whether wearing a uniform or wearing civilian clothing, have the right to stop you in all the territory of the Republic of Croatia and to break into an apartment when they are performing customs surveillance. This right is not even reserved for police members, and they are limited by judicial acts to whether or not they can break into your apartment and only in the event that they prosecute the perpetrators of a criminal offence and these serious criminal offences can get into your apartment unauthorized without a valid court order. That's why I think this is too dangerous a provision in this law, regardless of the weaponry that in itself speaks of the government's very wrong intentions to propose this law or that it has not erased something that it found in earlier laws. The fact and the possibility of customs officers breaking into your apartment is something that must not be allowed and that is contrary to the provisions of the Croatian Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40269	Thank you. We have a colleague Grubisic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40270	Thank you very much. A fellow Mlakar constitutional provision that the apartment is invulnerable here by this legal solution in which it has truly said it would be fairly given great powers to customs officials who, in particular, let me say some younger inexperienced how well this legal act and this material and literally understands its function and then be such an up-to-date customs officer of youth can indeed produce conflict and an excess that can lead to very ugly things and solutions in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40271	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40272	Final proposal of the Customs Service Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 340. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like to ask dear Boris Lalovec, Deputy Minister of Finance, to show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40273	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40274	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law and I am notifying that the adoption of this law requires a majority of all MPs in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure. Please make a statement. Who's for the final bill? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, 23 votes against and 7 abstentions have been passed by the Customs Service Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40275	After the afternoon coffee which apparently aroused the spirits we continue with - The proposal for an annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2013 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this document, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. We have with us a representative of the proposing assistant minister Ankica Njezic. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Unless I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club Melita Mulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40276	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, assistant minister, colleagues and colleagues. Last week, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Statistics Development Strategy for the 10-year period, we adopted a four-year plan for the programme of activities, and before us is the annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2013. A programme based on the adopted user needs plan but also on EU requirements for the need to integrate into the European statistical system of the SDP club will support it. What is the importance of the availability of quality objective and timely statistics delivered clearly showed this morning's debate on state aid. To formulate public policies all, especially those that citizens feel in their daily lives, either economically or industrially, or measure their effects, the prerequisite that we have quality statistics that we can process, analyze and interpret. In order to create effective and social and demographic or migration policy, it is necessary to have complete data from the 2011 census. Although part of the data has already been published, the plan provides for the publication of the final data of the census according to individual characteristics. The plan also provides for the annual processing of data from the internal and external migration of the population. What is the importance of migration data? Some fears or predictions about the departure of Croatian workers or brain drains that have been spoken of lately. If we stick to the 2011 DZS data for Croatia, almost 13,000 people have moved out of Croatia, the vast majority of which are in the EU Member States and Germany, Italy, Austria, France, Slovenia, some of which have announced transitional periods or restrictions related to the mobility of Croatian labour force. If we look back for the last five years, we will notice that from the start of the crisis, the number of immigrants has dropped, but since 2008, it has started to grow. Since the beginning of the crisis, so by the end of 2011, more than five thousand people have moved out of Croatia. Last year, on the other hand, about 3,000 requests for Croatian citizenship were received in Croatia. In addition to this data, we need both the number and structure of the displaced from abroad and estimated abroad by age and gender, the data on asylum, illegal migration and residence permits. This plan provides for all of this, as well as data on the relocation of persons within Croatia, or statistics on internal migration of the population. The plan envisions data delivery for the past year, but also for the first six months of this year. Data that are extremely important for the creation of regional development policy are the number and territorial distribution of the population towards demographic, educational, economic, migration and other characteristics, as well as data on households and families. We'll get all of this through the final data, that is, the processing of the population list. When it comes to other social statistics, the plan provides for the processing of data from the population income survey, i.e. income indicators, social inclusion, living conditions of private households, the conduct of the labour force survey, and the class of questionnaires on education and education funding. Data on deceased, born, concluded or divorced marriages will be available on a monthly basis. When it comes to macroeconomic statistics, and taking into account that on this agenda we have a proposal for a management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, it is good that the annual plan provides for an annual report on investments in the property of legal persons,... the value of the long-term assets of the Republic of Croatia, the calculation of all indicators and the value of the housing fund and the value of the land under residential buildings for the purpose of calculating the housing rent. In the context of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union and of what is waiting for us to be ready to apply since 1 July of this year, the plan contains the publication and processing of all relevant indicators for the trade in goods with both Member States and third countries, as well as all the data we need to determine how much of our own resources will be, or how we will fill the budget of the European Union. Also, on the monthly basis, we will have all the data available to see trends, such as the combination of data for the calculation of public finances statistics, public debt statistics and deficits, and the publication of the consumer price index, i.e. the measurement of inflation. Finally, in addition to all the important statistics in the area of agriculture, forestry and fisheries, the plan also provides for the development of standards, and in order to monitor energy efficiency and to draw up Croatia's energy balance, which is an extremely important area not only for this year but also for all of the following. For this reason, the SDP will support this proposal for a plan for 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40277	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB club Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40278	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll be very brief. Proposal for an annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia. And last night we watched Dnevnik, I don't know which TV and the 2011 census was updated again, which was conducted by the State Statistics Office with the help of a number of people employed in this list. We still don't have five or ten percent of the data on that list. How are we ever going to implement the proposal of any plan, especially the annual plan when we don't have that data? How long do you think it would take for this pace that our National Statistics Service, China, to collect the data they collected during the processing list? How much? Three months says a colleague or 300 years at this pace who has here our National Statistics Institute, at the time of the Internet, at the time of electronics, in a modern time where the possibility of importing all data from all ministries and everything that has been collected is therefore very easy and accessible. I know that the work of the State Department for Statistics and Data Processing, especially if you go as on foot as we like to say in medicine sometimes when you do scientific work, is very difficult. But here it has been two years exactly, so in May it seems to me or April 2011, so in April it's been two years, now June 2013, we still don't have 95% of the data. And now here we have to say... how it's going to be complex and how we're going to get reports on all segments, demographic movements, everything else. And we still don't have a 2011 report. Data on emigration, immigration, etc., data on agricultural production, data on forest production, how they will do it at all if they are still busy with the work since the 2011 census. Or should we extend the census to every 20 years so that we can make it to these annual plans and indicators to classify and display to the citizens and the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia. I don't know what to tell you, whether to accept this proposal for an annual implementation, be careful of the implementation plan or not. I think it doesn't matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40279	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ club Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40280	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Grubisic, it does not matter, it should not matter whether we accept the proposal for an implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Statistical Institute or not. We should accept, and we should warn of anything that we can possibly contribute from this position to improve the situation. And it's really beautiful everything written in the review of the projected activities, but here I'm about to take advantage of the occasion, and I'm going to say a few notes to contribute to the quality of the work of the Statistical Institute and point out the importance of the Statistical Institute. Otherwise, in Croatia statistics seem to only exist for themselves. Statistics are published and almost not used, as if no one should be served, as if it were its own purpose. No statistics, no analysis, no measures appropriate. So many important data statistics for each segment of society and here is listed from demographics to economics, so many interdependent variables can be compared to the impact of variables on the variable, on the results of the impact, on policy change. Well, statistics are the foundation of society's development. Ignoring statistics means ignoring society, ignoring all of us. And it's right here and it's an opportunity to say that the Statistical Bureau has been neglected for years. Even in some years, it has treated the Statistical Institute as an unwanted child, and so much work being done and the truth that it would have to be more up-to-date that the data is needed, because I especially stress in the conditions of the crisis, in the conditions of the recession, and I will just point out the macro-economic indicators, the economic indicators that are necessary faster. But he's not always guilty and he's at least responsible for this statistical institute. They have extremely capable people, responsible people, but they need to invest in the Statistical Institute, they need to invest in everything. Investment in the Statistical Institute is an investment in the Croatian future. Informing further to the Statistical Institute is essential and this is no one's criticism. It's just a finding. That's necessary. We are one of the few countries that publishes quarterly indicators of the movement of gross domestic product 2 months after the end of the period. It should be a month at the latest. So, by the end of April for the first quarter, you can think further about what you're doing and what direction we're going in. You spoke to your colleague Grubisic about the census. Of course there are always subjective difficulties and reasons, but here are the most common objective reasons. And that's why I'm appealing, and by the way, I'm going to say that it's illogical and I always allow differences of opinion. But in my opinion, it's illogical that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is in charge of the Statistical Institute. If someone needs to be in charge of that institution, then it needs the Ministry of Finance, but I even think it might be worth considering that the Statistical Institute, because of its importance, should be an independent one, in the future an independent institution that will be a public service. In order to obtain business information today, you need to register and pay membership fees in order to get business information. There is also a view of the possibilities of FINA, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Employment Service, the Pension Insurance Institute and the Statistical Office to be a public service about making as much information available to us as possible for entrepreneurs and all those who are concerned with their sector. But not just getting information. Someone has to work and analyze, someone has to problem the movement of all important variables from those in the economy to those social, comparable. I recently asked for GDP data to be delivered to me in some years since Croatia's independence, I am responsible for not having that data. It's an unacceptable situation, but I don't consider anyone responsible for it. It just doesn't work. You don't have one place today from the 1990s to today's most relevant economic indicators, let alone an analysis of these indicators has been carried out. And that's why I think we all need to give political support to the Statistical Institute, their efforts to train as much as possible, inform themselves, that they can monitor all events but also be of benefit and that they have a greater benefit from society as possible. However, they should also have qualified people. Someone needs to give them a job, and I'm gonna do what needs to be done. It must be offered to the Statistical Institute what it is that Croatian society needs, what analysis it needs, what reports it needs. No, there are reports from the Employment Service as they think and the Statistical Institute as they think it's best and good reports. But the question is, which segment and which society? We are here to say the same thing to this society and how to adapt both the activities and the functioning of the Statistical Institute to make it even more useful to this society, and that is so much information wealth that is buried, which is not used. It is our job to use this because we must not allow decisions, measures, solutions without systematic analysis. But if anything is present in Croatia, then it is the absence of a system. Thus, there is a systematic approach to this problem, and I hope that in the future we will address these problems and that the Statistical Institute will indeed become one modern institution, and I would be most fortunate if it were an independent institution in the Republic of Croatia that will serve all sectors of Croatian society with its information wealth both from politics, from demographics, from the tourism sector, from the agricultural sector and from all economic and business needs. That is why the HDZ Club also supports the proposal of the Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities of the Statistical Institute, but we will try and help the Statistical Institute get what it needs to become a modern statistical institution, a modern statistical institution because it is necessary for Croatian society, it is necessary for Croatian prosperity and for the Croatian future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40281	Thank you, too. We've reported several replicas. Boro Grubisic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40282	Yes, my colleague Maric and I were surprised when the other day there were words about the Statistics Strategy in the Republic of Croatia for 10 years or whatever it was, that he was present here as a reference to say Minister Jovanovic, Minister of Education and Sports. So I was surprised that at all, it was the State Statistics Institute actually to say exactly that it was the competent Ministry of Education and Sports. Secondly, I agree with you to strengthen the Institute of Statistics to become a public service, to become informational and therefore to produce information wealth as you yourself have said and to obtain data for the parchment from which both measures and decisions and solutions and these governments and all those interested in statistical data that the State Statistics Office has provided. So here I am grateful that you've come forward with a replica of me, but also at your presentation and that, in fact, the State Statistics Office should be an independent institution that would then be strengthened that we all want to actually do our job for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40283	Thank you, too. Answer, fellow Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40284	Thank you very much. A colleague of Grubisic, you yourself said how unnatural it was to see Minister Jovanovic when it comes to reviewing the activities and plans of the Statistical Institute's activities. Not only is it about the Minister in question. We should come up with a time when we are considering which institution a trap under which the ministry is simply trying to influence the appointment of directors of such institutions. And I think it was very common leadership not only in this case but in many other cases. There is an unnatural position of institutions in Croatian society and this is a typical example of the Statistical Institute. The meaning of the existence of the Statistical Institute should be changed. Because it's about immense wealth. And without it, I don't know how any more serious decision can be made without analysis. That is why the Statistical Institute needs to be further informed, even more professionalised and made it possible for education to become this highly skilled institution and an independent institution in any case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40285	Thank you, too. We have a replica of Melite Mulic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40286	Thank you. I would agree with my colleague Maric that the State Statistics Institute should be but it is an independent and impartial body, but I will also remind my colleague Maric and other colleagues that Minister Jovanovic is not only Minister of Education and Sport but also Minister of Science, and this is about a whole series of statistics. So not only the macroeconomic but the general, social, social, social, migration reasons that we need to create different policies. I will also remind myself that in fact the National Statistics Institute is not the only holder of statistical activities but there are also numerous other institutions such as the CNB, Pension Insurance Office, Employment Office, Croatian Institute of Public Health. So it could also extend his subordination to many different ministries, and I think that the Ministry of Science is actually quite appropriate for the ministry. I'll also remind you that the State Statistics Institute as planned by the strategy, and unfortunately you weren't there yet, so you couldn't participate in the debate, is taking over part of the data processing from the Ministry of Finance, and I think it's more logical to have it in the intelligence of the Ministry of Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40287	Thank you, too. We have an answer, colleague Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40288	Your colleagues, Mulić, pointed out yourself that there are more places for statistics. Well, that also points to an unconstitutional approach. Why read the same data in 10 different bulletins in Croatia? This means that no one has taken seriously yet, why will the CNB, the Ministry of Finance, the Statistical Institute and the Employment Office contain the same? What do you not have the patience to listen to? So young, and you're losing your temper. I mean, there's no reason. And secondly, the question of jurisdiction is, if someone should be in charge who uses the data most and who has a particular institution? The least benefits of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and the most benefits should also be used by the Ministry of Finance and other ministries. But so far, the least useful has been the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, but it cannot be reduced to the role of a statistical institution because some of these same data is published by others. It just means that the state's spending is in different places needlessly, so that it can rationalise. Because economic growth data, unemployment data, education data, why have ten places and why do it with ten professional services. And I don't know why you can't accept it, so you're reacting so nervously. I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40289	Thank you. Next replica, Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40290	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Maric, here I agree with you that it really speaks about statistics and the very reputation itself may need to be brought down in one place. And the proof of this is also the recent forum held by Croatian exporters where Mr. Bago I think, Darinko Bago, the chairman of the Končar administration, says we exporters hold in our hands the data of the Office of Statistics and they are correct. But we also keep data from the FINA that are also accurate, but they're different from each other. That's the fact we're witnessing, and of course in that case neither we in the whole state nor the citizens know which data is indeed credible. We also testify here in this home that these data are interpreted from case to case. We had a recent Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas where a city requires that I base statistics and censuses into the mountainous and mountainous areas. The government says it degrades the 2011 census itself and says the list is made, the list is also accurate, but the methodology was different and the question is whether, given that methodology, the city meets the criteria to become, say, part of the mountain-mounted area. These are facts, so the data is used from time to time as politics fits. However, the figures are exact and they speak exactly how many we are. Here's a colleague Grubisic mentioned China, they have a billion and 340 million inhabitants, they listed it in six months, and they published all the statistics in six months. They had a list that cost as much as I read 540 million kunas somewhere, with 175 of us for 4 million inhabitants. And they've settled it all neatly and, of course, they're going in a completely different direction. We still don't know any of that important data that the list said and tell us that this will be processed in 2014, perhaps in 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40291	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40292	Comrade Boric, well the exporters have noticed, so this is precisely what I was saying was necessary to make a system, that it is also necessary to standardise statistical data, collect statistics. It is true that from different statistical reports of different institutions you can see different data. For example, even GDP growth is not listed to you in 2009 in all statistical reports. The number of employees cannot match all reports. The debt of the state isn't all the same in the reports. These are unstandardised collection and I therefore stress the need, and how much then a decision error is possible if it is decided on the basis of unstandardized data. It is true that statistics sometimes serve someone for praises, and to someone for criticism, but statistics are ruthless, it should be respected regardless of the political contribution or the political handicap because statistics show what happened in the past period, how it happened in the past period, and what makes society do to get the desired statistical sizes. What is desirable for the Croatian population, is this still a reduction? Who reacts to the fact that in Croatia, according to statistics, 200,000 people are smaller today than the 1990s. A year? What reacts if it is said that the economic downturn is 2% last year and that in this year, even though 0.5% of the growth is planned again, to report again to someone who says it is, it's not what we thought it would be. Because it's thought, not analyzed. Because if you just think you know everything then you really know everything, but in that case nothing works, and that's a disaster for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40293	Thank you. And the last replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40294	Dear colleague, I agree with you, with your finding that we need systematic analysis, but with neither system nor analysis. This debate has also shown that we have different approaches to what we are discussing differently because many things are not clear. The issue of jurisdiction is the least important to me at this point, is it the Ministry of Education, is it the Ministry of Culture. I would be much more pleased if the State Statistics Institute had all the data that all the businesses, all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, all the high school students, all the students, all the scientists, needed in one place. It is absolutely certain that the CNB data will not be collected by someone third and will not be collected by the State Statistics Office, it can partly, but will send the CNB to the State Statistics Office. If it were an independent body then, it would certainly not have been said by Mr. Jovanovic, but would have been spoken by the administrator of that independent body. So it's not about an independent body. It is up to us to try to suggest how the State Statistics Institute really should be a place where you have all the information you need about the state, about the activities, about the past in one place and how to use the most easy way by key, one key on the computer of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40295	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40296	Well, of course Croatia lacks systems. How do you call something a system if it doesn't work? Because the system by its nature is something that works perfectly. And now, for example, we have a pension system, and it doesn't work. We have 15 billion kunas a year missing in the pension system. Well, it's not the system. What does it look like to get that system? As far as the data is concerned, you said the National Bank is publishing data published by the Statistical Institute. The Croatian National Bank should publish the data it collects, and then unite it in the Statistical Institute. But unfortunately, all institutions deal with other people's data, mostly. Thus, the Croatian National Bank publishes data from the Ministry of Finance and the Statistical Institute, and at least publishes what we are interested in what they are doing is the structure of international reserves, how much is the contribution on international reserves, what is the structure of banks. But you're now asking how many savings have raised credit in Swiss francs with a Swiss franc clause no one can know, because there's no record and statistics on it. Because they decide for themselves what this society needs. No, someone should say what the state institutions need to do to society and order what they need to do and what data to collect and where these data should be pooled. And I agree that it's less important who's in charge, because it's a little bit important who's in charge. That's why I think we should be an independent institution and where the director appoints, say, this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40297	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40298	Proposal for an annual implementation plan for the RS statistical activities for 2013. The debate on the proposal is closed. I am voting on the proposal for an annual implementation plan for statistical activities. Excuse me. Who's for please? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 105 votes, the annual implementation plan for the RS statistical activities for 2013 is in the text as proposed by the Proposer. That's why we've exhausted everything we've arranged for the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40299	We continue with - Final bill amending and supplementing the Law on ID, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 365. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister Evelyn Tonkovic is with us. Deputy Minister, be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40300	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The proposed amendments to the ID Act are implemented at this point in time in the first phase of the project to draw up a new electronic identity card. The purpose of the introduction of this electronic new identity card is to encourage and monitor the development of the information society, and to develop the state administration information system and provide user-oriented public services. This first phase introduces a new redesigned ID card with improved protection elements. In the second phase, cards with an integrated electronic data carrier will be issued to enable the electronic signature of the card holder. In relation to the current data content on the identity card, the only novelty at this first stage is the introduction, i.e. the addition of personal identification data. Since the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be able to move within the territory of the Member States from 1.7.2013 as citizens of the Union with a valid passport or ID card, these amendments to the laws shall also be given to minors residing in the Republic of Croatia regardless of the years of life. As the price of the ID is lower than the price of the passport, the regulation of this right on the identity card to minors regardless of the years of life gives their parents the opportunity to travel with their children within the territory of EU Member States, as well as other non-EU countries that allow the crossing of the state border with a valid identity card. Children under 12 years of age will not be taken fingerprints of papal fingers when applying. The age limit from which the identity card is issued with a 10-year period has been reduced from 27 to 21 years old. After 21 years of life, the look of a ID card doesn't change so fast that the ID card should be changed every 5 years. They are approaching and prescribing which changes in personal data condition the need to submit applications for a new identity card, change of personal data, OIB, sex, date of birth, residence. It is also added to the provision that a person should not be used with a personal identity card which expired on the expiry date. Provisions relating to the photo attached to the application for the issue of an identity card have also been developed so that the applicant, who for religious or medical reasons wears a head covering, may exceptionally attach the photograph in which he is photographed with a cover, but provided that the cover does not cover face, chin and forehead. In addition to that law, it is in line with the provisions of the Penal Code, provisions identical to the provisions of the Penal Code and the provisions of the Personal Name Act have been deleted. It is not necessary to provide additional resources for the implementation of this law in the state budget. The new form allows the transfer of the complete production of ID cards to the Republic of Croatia. The existing form is produced abroad for now, and is personilized in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40301	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club colleague Shime Lucin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40302	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. So here's a few words on behalf of the SDP club since there's really no need to talk too much about this law because it's what you'd say both plain and short. The SDP club will support the adoption of this law. In fact, it's been a little over 10, 10.5 years now since we introduced a valid ID card in Croatia, and they were at that time, technically, I would dare to say top. There may have been some other variations on the subject, but then politics decided on that variant. Normally, safety standards change within 10 years, and then personal and other data protection standards change. Also in 10 years of technology and technological jump is so much that it's actually hard to track it very hard and I think it's very good that it's going into these changes right now. First of all, because the identity card will no longer have primarily not to say the only identification importance but will be in a certain way and the travel document. Because we have been travelling to the EU, or to all EU member states, since 1.07. And it's actually going to be a document that replaces our passport in all places and let's say I don't know about hotels or where they're going. What I think may need to consider is how much I understood so the newly designed ID cards will be provided for the installation of an electronic background, i.e. an electronic chip. It would be good if we had at least an indication in what period and for what time it could be expected to install that electronic chip because what I believe everyone here in this House would want and beyond that the e-Government is simply functioning and that we have enough with one document to do a number of jobs and solve a series of relationships with so to say with the state and public sector. Actually, what's this about? We still have to say when you're pulling out a driver's license or I don't know an armed or hunting list we need a mass of documents. If we came into a situation where we had the entire administration informed and had an electronic ID card, we could actually do all the other documents with that one document. Imagine how effective the administration would be in that situation. I know we're not close to it yet, but I believe it should be a goal for you all. And not to mention the paperwork that would be reduced. So what's good is that this law, or the introduction of a new card, will not burden family budgets, or family budgets, because valid cards are worth up to the end. So when you go to rebuild a new card, let's say when you're going to rebuild an old card, you usually have to change the photo and the additional papers. So, that'll be when you go and get a new one. So, accordingly, I think it's good and that children can definitely get these IDs team before the promoter said, and this is that this is actually a travel document and that it's a good thing that children actually have to guarantee for their children. It's just a question of the age limit, when a parent needs to, whether it's 16 years old, whether it should be less or more when parents come along with their child to get their ID card. I think, under the current law, it was about 15 years to get a card, but in that case, it took the consent of the parents. So, in the end, another thought proposal, and this is because a large number of civil society associations have come forward with a proposal to consider the possibility of not having sex on their ID card. First of all, it doesn't determine the identification and then the security elements. So avoiding gender description in a personal ID would in a certain way facilitate the position of transgender and other persons if I didn't go into detail now, before some European countries, like Germany, had no sex on their identity card. Here is perhaps these two remarks that we should perhaps discuss a little bit, which is the time limit for the introduction of an electronic basis and this proposal, which came from the NGO sector, once again, I stress that the SDP club will adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40303	The Republic has Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40304	Thank you very much. You said your colleague Lucin was commendable for taking care of the financial burden on his parents. Yes, I can agree with that in part, and I think it's commendable. However, we should also take care of the time in which we live. And about these 300 and a few thousand unemployed, so I think maybe taking into account that this is the only document that's really required and the driver's license and passport are not mandatory. This is a mandatory document. Is it possible that the first issue of this document should be free, or until it expires? If it's about stealing, then the loss will normally have to be paid a real expense. But in this case, it would turn out to be really about the material situation of our citizens only if it were to be taken into account so that these documents were kept because the document is required to be issued free of charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40305	Replication response, Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40306	Well, that would be great if that were possible. But you yourself said that we live in difficult times, so they're not just citizens in difficult times and the state is in difficult times. Look, it's not small money, take 4.5 million in some perspective IDs, so you'll get the amount of money you need. I mean, I mean, if I wanted to touch the voters, I'd tell them you're right, but look what's going on. It's just that perhaps the Home Office has some sort of agenda that points out which I.D. It may happen that, apart from those few now, I don't know how many of them are going to need to change right now, actually it's going to go further in the next maybe 10 years, 12. So I think we need to be serious because, as you said, it's not just hard for citizens. We all know there's no money in the budget, where do we find the money? ... Someone would say it's discrimination, I'm referring to the one before the point. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm kidding. I don't know if that would be possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40307	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40308	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister of the Interior. On behalf of the SDSS Club, I will comment on this Amendments and Supplements proposal of the Law on the ID card, and I will immediately say that our club will accept these amendments. This is in part and technical regulation, however, this technical regulation regulates the basic, as is said here basic and one of the most important documents, and this is the identity card. The identity card has so far been evidence primarily of the identity of citizens, it was also evidence of the residence of a citizen who owns that identity card, and now these legal changes give him a new quality, which first of all gives him the character of a travel document, and in one part, given the OIB he gets even the character of a certain tax identification. The motives for the motion for such amendments to the law according to how we understand it are the fact that most citizens end up with an existing identity card in 2013. This is, in any case, the harmonisation with European Union documents although it is said here that the purpose of the project is to introduce an electronic identity card, encourage and monitor the development of the information system, provide user-oriented and electronic public services, etc., etc. So that formulation may be different, but I think the motive is to align it with the documents of the association that we're entering. And clearly, the implementation of this whole procedure in two phases, in the first phase, should therefore be returned as I understood this making of this personal document on the domestic ground. So far, some foreign company has been doing it, and now a domestic company has to do it and then a state-owned agency does it and personalizes it. I think it's a good thing, and I hope that we're also a society, or that we've teamed up and we've created assumptions that this kind of identification document can also work on domestic soil with domestic companies. In addition to all these reasons, I think that the most important things are the introduction of the OIB because the entry of the OIB is not only proving identity but creating simpler assumptions for communication. You're looking for an OIB today when you're going to the gas station, so if you don't know it by heart, you have to wear some of your own penetrating jokes or something. Anyway, through this personal document it's all very visible, all very practical and expedient. We think it's also very important that with this document, so with a new document who decides to take it back before the old document expires, they can travel without passports. It is actually the most attractive thing and was when we talked about entering the European Union to travel freely, free flow and goods, but also people. So the assumption is a simpler flow with simpler documents, and I'm experiencing it is precisely this new ID document that will make it easier for us to travel through the European Union. It is also commendable to reduce the age limit as assumptions for obtaining the document to 10 years, so 21 years. They're not small age, they're serious people at 21 and there's no reason, so it's a good thing that 21 years of life is a borderline for issuing an I.D. for 10 years. It is also important that the existing identity cards are valid until their expiry, so there is no priori obligation for all of us to come suddenly to the replacement of these identity cards. People who do not decide to replace have enough space to use the existing, but they cannot, should be told people that then they cannot consume in the same way that people who replace the new ID card can consume. So, besides these now existing cards that we all have more or less, we now have another electronic card called the ID card, and then it's basically left to me to still edit the driver's license in the same way as it does in some countries of the West, and we'll practically have all these documents as a card and we'll have in some of our wallets in a very simple and practical way. So that's something that we rationally support. What I'd like to say to the public is two things, and here's one thing that wasn't talked about here. Therefore, when it comes to identity cards, members of national minorities have the right to possess a bilingual identity card. This is guaranteed in Article 9(2). The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities and this thing has so far worked in some sort of formal-legal sense. So there was no official obstacle, nor did we record any incident situations in the sense that someone came looking for a bilingual I.D., and the department at the Ministry of the Interior made it impossible. So, no. There were no such cases or were minors at the very beginning. But now the thing has entered the stage that we have the right, the right option, but we don't consume them because it's becoming less and less interested in such a thing. So I'll just say a few facts. For example, in the Virovitica-Podravska County Police Administration, only two ID cards were issued in Hungarian. In the Osijek-Baranja Police Administration within 5 years, 227 ID cards were issued for members of national minorities, so bilingual of which 76 are in Serbian and 149 in Hungarian, and one in Italian and Slovak. The Pakrac Police Station was issued 17 mainly in Serbian and Italian, slightly higher in the Vukovar-Srijem Police Administration where a total of 187 bilingual cards were issued in Serbian, 5 in Russian and 4 in Hungarian. So that's something that's the right that's allowed. But obviously there's no big interest in consummating this minority right. Therefore, this right can be exercised in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia and is not limited to the area of units of local self-government in which the statutes, with official use of Croatian language, are prescribed and the official use of languages and letters of national minorities. So these two things aren't tied up. Of course, we expect that this possibility will also be envisaged by issuing a new electronic card at the request of a member of the national minority issued and in its native language. And as another thing I would say here, so the assumption of quality achievement, the consumption of getting IDs is the law that we passed, and that's the law that we recently passed the Law on residence. We have said in this Law of residence that by the end of this year we have to regulate the fact of residence, so people who have residence in Croatia but are located outside Croatia for treatment, education, so for a longer period of time or for some other reasons they are obliged to inform the police administration or the competent consular office of that year and explain the reasons why they are absent for a longer period of time. Otherwise, if they do not do so, the police administration shall carry out the procedure and the procedure carried out under their official duty shall cease to apply, their residence shall be suspended, their identity card shall automatically cease to be valid. This also applies to persons presently outside Croatia, who are in their status as returnees. They have to regulate their residence status by 29th of this year in order not to lose the right to an ID card and, therefore, to consume this new thing that we need to deal with today. We also think that, in any case, this whole process should also take account of the economic aspect of the prices. The newly requested identity card should not be over the price of the issue of the identity card so far. In any case, it must be lower than issuing a passport in order for it to be stimulating for people to access the amendment of these documents even before their regular deadlines. So we think this law is welcome. Is he supposed to go by emergency procedure, whether the reasons for the costs, the costs, the reasons for the emergency procedure are I don't know if that's the real reason? In any case, it should be brought before EU entry as the main reason and we, in that sense, and we support these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40309	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40310	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Deputy Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs. First of all, this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the ID with a final proposal for an emergency procedure, first of all, the Croatian People's Party club, the Liberal Democrats, will support it. Namely, personal IDs are issued to Croatian citizens under the I.D. Act and also the I.D. Regulation. Personal ID cards were issued on the basis of these laws on 1 January 2003, so that the largest number of ID cards issued to Croatian citizens with a period of 10 years will expire during 2013, because this is the answer in a way that was really taken into account not only for the change of identity cards and the need for Croatia's entry into the EU, but also for some practical reasons that in this part of the people who will approach the change of identity cards will be able to use and new ones immediately. What is also important is to point out that, too, over time since 2003, all these documents, especially regarding the protection of funds and visual identity, no longer fully meet the most recent standards of protection. In view of the significant technological changes that allow them to counterfeit certain elements of the existing card, identity cards also do not allow for the subsequent installation of an electronic data carrier to be edited when switching to an electronic identity card. The purpose of the introduction of an electronic identity card is also to monitor the development of the information society and the system of state administration that we are, of course, bound to introduce in the following year. What I would really mention is that in terms of protective means... In particular, the emphasis on the protective properties that we have really been, in some way, the fact that many documents, especially the passports of our Croatians, have been misused, and this has caused great damage above all, to Croatia, and in that part, it is necessary to make sure that the protection is taken care of now in that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, the consequences of the law are those which you would particularly like to point out that there is indeed one document that will have a personal identification number in it. So far, we've really had problems that there was no ID on it, we've had to carry a lot of certificates, especially the only documentation that was a health card that had an OIB in it. What we would also like to point out as a good thing for minors living in the Republic of Croatia to be able to issue an identity card regardless of the years of life. The explanation that, after EU accession, citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be able to move freely through other Member States' areas on the basis of a valid ID card, i.e. travel documents, thus reducing the cost of making a ID card compared to the cost of making a travel document. And it is proposed to abolish age limits for making ID cards to facilitate the travel of minor Croatian citizens across the Union. What is also very good to suggest that the age limit from which the identity card is issued with a 10-year period is lowered from 27 to 21 years of age. So far, it's been five years since the expiry date. I think clearly that really people from 21 to 27 don't change so much that after 5 years they should change them, but we still think it's also the right 10 years. Other amendments and additions to the law shall also simplify the procedure for the submission of applications for the issue of an identity card. The provisions defined by this law would not be repeated but I would point out, first of all, that the application for the identity of a person is made in person in such a way that a minor who is more than 16 years of age who submits an application for an identity card does not have a public ID that can be verified, a parent or guardian must be present to confirm the identity of a minor. An application for an identity card to a person under the age of 16 shall be submitted by a parent or guardian. If the parent does not live in the family community, the request shall be submitted by the parent with whom that person lives on the basis of the decision of the competent authority. I think it's very well regulated in a way that even minors can take the personal documents we've already issued, but with one quality control above all parents. What we would also like to point out in particular is that one photo is attached to the application for an identity card, so far it has been two, a prescribed size which faithfully shows the person who submits the application without a head covering and is given an insight into the previously issued identity card or other public document that can verify the identity of the applicant. What we point out again and stress extremely from the applicants for the issue of a ID card can be taken a photo on which it is photographed with a head covering if the cover is worn for religious or medical reasons provided that the cover does not cover the cheeks, chin and forehead. I think that's really what has been a lot of discussion in Europe, but I think it's certainly one confirmation of the positive legal democratic gains not only within the EU frameworks but also beyond. In particular, we greatly respect the religious allegations that were of great importance. They would mention that this law is also in line with many laws that have been passed in the meantime. First of all, I'd like to mention the residence law. There are also a number of infringements that have been brought into line under the Penal Code. What is important is also to say that the identity cards issued before the entry into force of this law remain in force in accordance with the deadlines for which they have been issued. So don't worry, we don't have any extra expenses. You really take care of that part too. Of course, the procedures for the resolution of applications for the issue of IDs will begin before the entry into force of this law will be completed under the provisions and applicable law. The implementation of this first phase of production of new ID forms would fully transfer to the Republic of Croatia. So that's where we look at not only the benefit for our citizens, the cost reduction in that part, but maybe one economic part for the whole country. We hope that we will also be able to create new jobs around that part if the whole part of the approval process is done in Croatia. First of all, we would like to point out that carrying a card is mandatory and that the most common thing about changing these cards is that people changed their cards not because they were running out of time, but because the cards were destroyed. So I would also ask that the quality of these cards be taken into account during this process, especially when it will be an identification document that will be able to be used in many things so that there is no damage to it that would again require some new costs. Anyway, we get new IDs, the old ones go into history. And just as many things go down in history by joining the EU, we have to stick to it. So other than IDs and driver's licenses, the vehicle's booklets and workbooks are removed. First of all, they won't be in the old form anymore than they will be in electronic form. Here, again, I would like to point out about all of that part of the Croatian People's Party club Liberal Democrats support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Personal Cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40311	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40312	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister. So here I have to say on behalf of the HDZ Club that there is a systematic repetition in the Croatian Parliament that, contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the proposer proposes laws in the emergency procedure and when there is no business basis for it, and the majority insists on it and forwards it at the end of the vote. Here's the law that's in front of us in the E.R. isn't European law, it doesn't bear the P.Z.E. However, the urgency of the procedure shall be explained by Article 159(1). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are said to be the reason for the adoption because it is necessary to prevent or eliminate major disturbances in the economy. I would really ask the Proposer to tell us what kind of disturbances in the economy will occur if we do not declare amendments and additions to the Personal Card Act in the emergency procedure. Furthermore, in this explanation, we read that the coordination for the implementation of the e-ID card project in December was in charge of something within three months, it is now the end of the 5 months, and here it has come out in 5 months of the proposal for this law that we must urgently pass. And probably this disturbance in economic business refers to that when it begins with the first phase of production of new forms of ID, then this production of forms will be transferred to Croatia, and now it is printed somewhere abroad, and personalized by the Agency for Commercial Activity in Zagreb. It would be interesting to hear what these costs are and how much of these enormous savings will be that they will prevent a disturbance in economic business, that's the first. Secondly, I ask the promoter how does he know it will be printed in Croatia? Is there going to be a public tender? Whether to make an offer for this job and how do we know who's going to get the job of printing these new forms, it's really not clear to me from this explanation. But it would be interesting to predict such enormous savings here that thank God we will prevent economic disturbances in Croatia by passing this law. The second is the question that we are asked, so it would certainly be better if the law were in two readings because these remarks that we are about to make, which I repeat, are difficult to shape, and you probably wouldn't accept these amendments, but it would be welcome to bring a quality legal text. The second question is why is this story at all, is true, when we join the EU then within the EU Member States we will be able to go through with the identity card, but I have not seen or been told, and I think it is not, that there would be some obstacle to doing so with an existing card. So there's another setting going on, why would we go to some first stage at all now, and then in the second phase, we'd get that electronic chip or something so it would be a full electronic card and why it couldn't wait to be done all of a sudden because now someone's going to get the first phase of their ID card and then sometimes, and sometimes it's not known when and in what form they're going to get that second phase of ID. The only explanation is this transfer to the Republic of Croatia or someone who will print it in Croatia, but I ask how do you know in advance who it will be? Now apart from this procedureal non-business method of adoption, therefore, but it is already common in the Croatian Parliament during this parliamentary majority, I will say on several provisions that I think should be fixed anyway, elaborated. Here's the first thing I'm going to do from this right to an I.D. card for people under the age of 16 where there's an opportunity for children at the earliest age to get an I.D. However, connecting it to the following article, which discusses the deadline on which the identity card is issued, and then it is said to have been after 27 years, and now it decreases to 21, which I think is fine because the look has not changed since then. So it's issued on a 10-year period to change appearance. But I'm asking what's going to happen to the children's IDs? So we know that a child and five years old, that a child in five years has changed his appearance in a lot, and what happens if a six-month-old identity card is issued, is that what the child's attorney for child protection said? So what if I identify with a child's ID after three years, which was taken at six months? Now you may refer me to that provision that no card must be used that does not correspond to the look, etc., but I think that for small children, and only after 12 years is the papal impression taken by children and must be a personal child present when issuing or submitting an ID card, so it should certainly be shortened. It seems to me if I remember correctly that passports are issued to children for two years. I may be wrong, but on a shorter deadline and you should definitely think about it because you will have not only ridiculous situations that the child will not respond, the appearance of the child and the images will be possible for many abuses of misidentification. What I would still warn about as important, which is that this law does not correspond with the Law on Personal Name, we have warned very much about when the Law on Personal Name was passed that allowed citizens to have unlimited number of words in their name and last name. We've been warning about a problem with documents where patterns won't be able to contain that much. E, this law thinks that he came out of this problem in a way that he said that if the person whose name and last name consists of several words, which because of the number of letters that contain cannot be written in the space for the entry of names and last names, then the name which the person has designated before the parent for use in legal traffic is entered. I would like to warn you that there are no restrictions on the number of words in the Law of Personal Name on the name and last name for use in legal transport. So a person can say I'm going to use that name in legal traffic, and it can also contain ten words in my name and ten words in my last name, because the Personal Name Act doesn't limit that, and that's what we've warned about. So you might write down some rulebook or something to make it impossible for citizens, but it won't be in accordance with the law. Also, a new notion is being introduced that a person should not be used with a personal card between their provisions even though she has changed her residence and that is why I am now mentioning something that we have talked about, which is what he also spoke about in order to give a good thought to it, and we will suggest that the issue of the identity card is not charged because the identity card is a mandatory document that a citizen must have. So it's not a document that can and doesn't have to be like a driver's license, passport, etc., it's bound to have it, and since it doesn't make any breakthrough with it or it's luxuriant, it would be good for the state to find the possibility of it being free, and most of all, here's to change your residence when the catastrus on one and the same building one five times in the course of your life changes the number of houses or when the local unit changes your street name, and then you have to go for a new ID card or blame or due, and from that address you haven't moved away. I would also warn of one more thing, so the same question is whether the importance of the ID is the basis for voting law. We have one situation where the Ministry of Administration from what was once called the List of Voters, and now under the new law it is called the Voter Register, and from this register of voters, it has dropped 200 000 people who did not have a valid ID card and 400,000 Croatian citizens, Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia. So that way, when they came to vote on the day of the election, she sent them to the Office of State Administration to get confirmation that they could still vote, although she did not renew their ID cards, which means that these citizens voted with an invalid ID card but went after a certificate that was extracted from the old list, or now it's called the register, so nothing essentially happened. First, they made it impossible for the citizens, and then they said it at confirmation, so under the same conditions, if you have confirmation, you can vote. So it is clear from this now that it was actually discouraged the citizens in all possible ways not to actually approach the elections both this and that before, mainly the citizens with residence outside the Republic of Croatia for the reason that they, first of all, was the provision that they had to register but then the Ministry of Administration came forward and said before the election and then it could be said that on the very day of the election if you are very persistent and very eager to vote, then let it be for you to register on the day of the election. Just like these people with an invalid card that wasn't listed in the voters list, but if they were very persistent and went to the state administration's office, then they could still vote. So we see no reason other than to make it as complicated for citizens as possible for them to go to elections. Here are some of the provisions that we think this law does not end up with and are not well-supplyed, notably these provisions in relation to children and these provisions in relation to the personal name and name that the provision does not correspond with the Law on Personal Name and therefore, as many times we repeat that this law is in two readings to be passed, then the Proposer could hear if he would like to hear or read from the phonograms of the subsequent remarks that MPs make in the Croatian Parliament and then perhaps install them in the final text. This is except that we have been given the reason that the economy in the Republic of Croatia will be severely disturbed if we do not urgently and hastily declare this law tomorrow, and this is explained by the fact that we will be able to print these forms by the basis of this law in the Republic of Croatia. So I'm asking the promoter if he hears what I'm asking, why Mr. Proposers would I ask some representatives, so I'd ask, maybe we'll get an answer right now. So why do we need this law in order to start printing forms in the Republic of Croatia so that the economy doesn't get significantly disturbed and why we can't do it now, so why do we need a new form so we can do it in Croatia, not abroad, and why the current forms aren't being printed in Croatia and not abroad, so I ask if it is, means that there was a public tender in which a company from abroad is being put in place and whether a public tender is going to be conducted or how the Ministry of Interior already knows who will and at what price printing in the Republic of Croatia. Because he must already know what the price will be and what it saves in view of the reasons for the business reason why it is taken in a shortened procedure and in an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40313	On behalf of Croatian Labourers' Club Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40314	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister of State. So here are the two of me now whether to vote for this law tomorrow by emergency procedure, because now that the economic relations are undisturbed, and by raising my hand, I will be responsible for the situation in the economy in the Republic of Croatia. At first, I think Mr. Shime Lucin spoke first on behalf of the SDP club or whether he was first or not. He said everything was clear, short, clear. But it's all clear here, but you don't know anything. Let's just say we don't know what the price of a citizen's ID is yet to be determined. You don't know who's gonna do those IDs. It is known that you will work in Croatia, you may even know who will work, but you will not work who will work those ID cards. It is not known how much it costs the state to do IDs, which will be done in Croatia. And that's the unknown. And we're talking about it today, and it would be polite to have it written in there and to know what the economic disturbances are. I think this emergency procedure is also the rape of democracy we've experienced here countless times. But we are talking about it, but most are working on their own because, as Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic said, she took responsibility for her back. What that responsibility looks like is exactly what this law is talking about. Now, me, this is all that's written in this law about what it's going to look like, what's going to be on your I.D.'s just one new element on the inside. It's the OIB. But I'm also wondering why this interphase, which is why we're not introducing an electronic ID card right now. Is the world's technology so much behind the table the same question as the proposing's. Is there an electronic ID in the world? If there is, why don't we introduce her? Or the one who will work in Croatia is not ready to do so, so we adapt to those who will work on a personal card that will get a job. So, illogically, we seem to be doing something we haven't prepared well enough. The second question is which would be intended to answer that question, because when we buy an apartment, when we rent an apartment, when we take out any solution we need to get something from the state, we need to give a ID card every time, and the identity card is obtained on the basis of the domicile and on the basis of the birth certificate. But you have to give both your birth certificate and your housekeeper along with your I.D. So that I.D. is a worthless document. The other thing we need to do, so we're suffocating ourselves needlessly in paperwork. We said a long time ago that we're going to do HITROREZ, it doesn't matter what government said, that we're going to throw out everything that's too high for the citizens, so that the state is at the service of the citizens. However, we from citizens first send it from the counter to the counter. He can't come to one counter and say I want to take out a building permit and I'll be there in seven days. 150 papers need to be removed, confirmation, housekeepers, birth certificates, and waited months or years. Which is why we don't have, why don't we go to the point where we have a document that will be both driver's license and personal and health care. For what? Is that impossible, isn't that what other countries have? Which is why we have to have that fat wallet again to make some papers inside. Or someone's gonna remember after a year, two days, and they're gonna say, "Let's just connect the ID and the driver's license, let's just have one document." If we have an electronic I.D., that electronic I.D. can be anything if we want to. But then maybe we should make some reforms at the state administration. It's another thing. Why do we have to pay tribute to other people's desires and mistakes? That's what my colleague Lovrin was talking about earlier, and if someone changes the street, I have to take out a new card, because if I don't get it out because I live in the wrong address, it's wrong for me to write on my I.D. Which is why we have to pay without actually knowing, we're introducing a card without knowing how much it's going to cost the child's ID. The provision that a child can also have a five-year-old ID is amazing. Now imagine what Mrs. Lovrin said to a three-month-old kid and a five-year-old kid. So who's gonna recognize what kid? It's not that there's going to be comical situations, but it can be big, big abuses and it's wrong. And we are passing the law by emergency procedure and we have a conscience to prevent and eliminate major disturbances in the economy. And now we have to raise our hand for something that is really very difficult to make logically clear. I hope that the motionary's representative will explain some of the questions. Everything else has already been said in the debate, so he doesn't think there's any longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40315	Thank you very much. And we're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40316	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So allow a few words about actually the motives of passing this law by emergency procedure and what is behind it. There are simply some reasons that are incomprehensible and incomprehensible. On the one hand, you can see that the proposed law states that this law should apply from 1 June. So, in three days. The reason we have already heard this several times today is that new forms can be printed in Croatia. I suppose that's for that economic reason, too. It is not clear why such a business contract could not be made without amending the law. The second argument that goes for that which is also unclear or problematic is that this is the first stage, and that in the second stage an electronic data carrier will be installed. When we asked the draft laws of the Ministry of the Interior on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security when the second phase will begin, how much it costs, how long it will take us to get the answers because they don't know it. Because it's a question of the jurisdiction of someone else, or someone who deals with e-Government. And on the third hand, it's argued that this is not going to cost anything in the budget. I mean, how can someone know or argue, and not know if this phase is going to be second in a month or in a year or when? So actually with this kind of behavior, what we can get out of here is that someone in the government did some kind of hodogram, so someone has to do some deadlines for a particular job. But the de facto message to Parliament is you'll do it now, and then in a month, two, three, six, or I don't know how much of what you're voting on by these kind of hodograms, things are going to happen or do. What, I wouldn't repeat what other predecessors have already said to all these remarks would have already just warned of one thing you on benches have already received the amendment proposed by colleague Lovrin and I that the issue of IDs is not charged. The answer we have already heard because others have already said this, or in the discussion mentioned, that this would be an additional cost for the budget again is in collapsing with what has been said not to draw your ID cards immediately but can be taken out over a number of years since these are worth it. Excuse me, another reason why this law is passed and in contradiction is that no one has said that these existing cards are not valid for travel abroad after 1.07. Here I think we could first find a series of reasons that would go according to the logic of the economic account and say that people who are unemployed, who have small children, pensioners with a severed standard that should enable them to do what is already said in changing addresses for which individuals are not responsible, but that is the acquisition of other circumstances. However, in my opinion, there is one far more important reason that is stronger than all these reasons, which is that the identity card is the same as the Housewife's document that does not obtain any material breakthroughs, but it is a question of identity and other words it is a question of man's dignity. Do I have the right to my own identity, to my own identity, and not have to pay someone for it? So, I think it's always normal for us to start affirming or reconfirming man's dignity as one of the fundamental values, and that one of these first moves would be this, that both the ID card and later the housekeeper when it comes, if that law comes on the agenda, not to be charged. Because this is something that has already become the practice of part of the EU countries because these two basic documents are not being charged. And I think this amendment should be accepted and incorporated into this law. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40317	Thank you very much. We're moving on to replicas. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40318	Dear Professor. Tudjman had already talked to counterpart Novak about the need to think about it, even he said that non-employees are given free of charge, but I agree with you that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia should be given their cards free of charge because it is a matter of proof of identity, a question of human dignity. In Croatia, however, we have brought down human dignity to the fullest. And that's also a fact. This could be more free, and today we might be able to discuss how much it costs to make that card. So if the state is going to make that card or someone on behalf of the State, it is not up to the state to make a profit but to calculate the cost of making that card. And first of all, we need to know how much the price of a card like that costs in Europe in Germany, France, Italy, any other country, so it doesn't turn out that the price of a credit card in Croatia costs five times more than in Great Britain. It can only cost so much that they make more cards so it's cheaper and it can be calculated. But we here when we speak in the Croatian Parliament never speak with full parameters. We are now passing a law that looks like that, so what now will little children be able to travel around Europe so that parents don't spend their passport, so we will issue little children ID cards. And here we have done the citizens a great service they will pass cheaper, and that is always cheaper than the most expensive. So at the time of recession, every additional cost for the citizen is the additional cost for the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40319	The answer to the line by Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40320	Thank you. As far as I'm concerned, as far as these parameters are concerned, it's not just about this law, but we simply don't have a factography when we pass the largest number of laws, rarely when a bill has an explanation and a fact that we can talk about it. I was even surprised, I said already that the promoter has no idea of the second stage when it will come, what will be the costs and when it will be realized. On the other hand, we should have data simply about the number of these ID cards, when they point out in what time period, and certainly this is what you said the price question because we can all be happy and satisfied that it starts to produce in Croatia but if it is going to be I don't know how many times more expensive then the question is what we saved and what we got. But I don't think I'm one of those who thinks the economic factor is the first cause of the crisis. I think the economy is simply the result of something. Therefore, if we go to strengthen certain values, and in this case we are talking about man's dignity, then no matter how much this will cost the budget will contribute to stabilisation and economy and relations in Croatian society. So I think those two values, the price in the budget and what we're going to get with respect for people and all of us are simply not comparable sizes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40321	Anna Lovrin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40322	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Tudjman's you've well warned about this provision of the last article of the 15th entry into force of this law. I hope that the Proposer will go along with some of his amendments to postpone that entry into force. I see that the Legislative Committee has made no comment, however, I stress that this law will at best be voted by the parliamentary majority tomorrow, it is 29th of May, until it goes into publication before 31st, and our Constitution says that the law enters into force at the earliest 8th day of its publication, so this is a general rule, unless, for particularly justified reasons, the law sets out otherwise. Do not underestimate us in any way and now say that this law is so important that it must take effect before 8 days of publication as a general rule of meeting citizens with the elected and passed law. Well, then I expect the Proposer may go along with some amendment himself because I think this would really be too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40323	The answer to the line by Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40324	Thank you. Well, it seems to me that what I am already obviously is that the proposer himself is under a certain press that these deadlines have to be respected, or he wanted it to be resolved without actually finding out the real motive or the real reason why it is. As has already been said not to repeat it is not known why this should go by emergency procedure because of all the reasons already said here, but the way it is brought simply means not to respect this Croatian Parliament at least by not going out with the arguments and facts why such deadlines are proposed, but rather taking the reasons that I have just commented on which people would simply say they do not hold water.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40325	Young Novak replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40326	So I'm taking this opportunity to apologize to you I really didn't see you before you submitted this amendment, it turns out I stole your idea. But mine was completely different, though. I asked to enable the unemployed, and that's why I brought them up, and in that context, I mentioned over 300 thousand unemployed. Those to whom the I.D. stands out, they're in violation. So they must, he's forced to draw out a new ID card, give at least to them and their children for whom there is a obligation to draw out a personal card to allow them to get free ID cards. And I don't think that's any populism, no matter what I'm immediately told is pulsism. And for this detail that you just mentioned earlier that it exists in Europe as a practice I must admit I didn't even know. However, there is another who I believe has missed you too, in article 3 of this text, it says that the change in data between the date of birth. Tell me, how can we change the date of birth? There may be a wrongly entered date, but there may be no change in the date of birth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40327	Replication response, Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40328	That's what I asked the board about that date of birth, but it says it's happening for some reason, but... it's a fake or some other reason, but good. As far as this first part is concerned, there's no reason to apologize at all because we're not here for any competition but for the common good. So I think we can join together, advocate a solution like this, and let's say this law on a free ID card and the housekeeper has France, and France is not such a small country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40329	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40330	Next, the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ID card, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 365. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's up for discussion? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 107 for and 1 against the vote, have adopted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like the representative of the motion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Honorable Evelyn Tonkovic, Deputy Minister of the Interior, to explain the amendments. Amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40331	The Honorable President, the esteemed fellow MPs and MPs. The government has tabled an amendment to Article 15 of the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the ID card in such a way that Article 15 is amended and reads as follows: "This law enters into force on the first day of its publication in the National Journal." For objective reasons, it was not possible to adopt a final draft of the law in the 5th month to amend its final provision on entry into force.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40332	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative Ana Lovrin on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40333	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I'll read the provision of Article 90(3). The Constitution which states that the law enters into force at the earliest 8 days from the day of its publication, unless, for particular reasons, the law is otherwise laid down. One ignoring position of the proposing representative as you say during the debate on this law when there was no basis for this law to be adopted by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by an urgent procedure, and for the reason it was stated that this prevents disturbances, significant disturbances, in the economic business of the state. On our inquiry to tell us how much savings are being given, and this is about printing forms which is the only reason, which will save us the chance to prevent an economic disturbance in Croatia we have not received absolutely any answer to exact questions, several exact questions, we have not received an answer. We've warned of a problem of entry into force. The amendment is now proposed to take effect immediately after the announcement. Therefore, a regular constitutional procedure is skipped to leave 8 days for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to get acquainted with the law that concerns them because the citizens are not concerned with where the card will be printed, the citizens are concerned about how the amendments to the law apply to them. And we also asked the question of how do we know which procedure someone will get the job of printing forms in the Republic of Croatia, how do we know that it will be right in Croatia, whether a public tender will be held or who it is that gets the job in advance? We didn't get any answers except one, so I'd say the government's violent amendment where it then resorts to a constitutional exception that really applies to extremely urgent cases when it really depends on the existence of a state which in this case is certainly not. We stress that citizens will see the law that applies to them very much, and it will come into force immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40334	Thank you very much. There are no other interested parties in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'd like the result of the vote. Thank you very much. I find that the majority of votes, 79 votes in favour and 26 votes against an accepted amendment by the government of the Republic of Croatia, thus becoming an integral part of the final draft of the law. We are moving on to the amendment of the respected representatives of Anna Lovrin and the respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman. I'd like a representative of the deputy deputy minister's proposal to be made manifest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40335	Your Honor. The government doesn't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40336	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40337	For the time being, there are not enough indicators as to how large the issue of IDs would be without charging fees for their issuing burdens on the state budget, and this issue would certainly be worth one broad debate before any decision is taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40338	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40339	Thank you, Mr. President. This isn't about money. This is about fundamental human rights. I.D.'s something where you identify a person. Therefore, the assumption that any other human rights and a number of countries in the EU have already adopted this practice that the identity card is a document that is not charged because this document does not exercise any material rights but, as I said, identify itself and acquires the right to function in society as an equal entity among others. Therefore, the answer to this is that there is no calculation of how much this cost simply cannot be an excuse for such a single decision, in particular, that we have not heard either of these others, nor the answer to this other amendment or question which is asked what is being obtained or what material threats are made if this amendment is not adopted by an urgent procedure. So I don't think this is acceptable, so I'm asking for a plea.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40340	Thank you very much. Are you asking for a vote? I would like to make a statement on the amendment of the honourable representative of Anna Lovrin and the respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman, whom the government does not accept. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to the amendment of Honorable Representative Sima Lučina, the amendment, and Mirela Holly I see. Thank you very much. Representative Mirela Holly, two MPs. Here you go, deputy. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40341	Thank you, Mr. President. Amendment number one, the government does not accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40342	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40343	Along with this explanation, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40344	So you give around first and we'll say in second... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40345	It's the same explanation. In particular, gender information is printed in most other identification documents issued in the Republic of Croatia and in most EU countries. This information is entered in the Matika born, and by enrolling in the identity card as a basic identification document, it is easier to carry out identification in all disputed cases which can be found on the ground in an operational sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40346	Thank you very much. Please show Mirale Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40347	We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40348	Thank you very much. So one and another amendment. Thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement about the final bill. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you. I find that most of the vote is 79 votes in favour, 23 votes against and 2 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the ID in the text, as proposed by the Proposer without the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40349	And we will also discuss - Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on police cooperation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 360 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. ... Comrade Lovrin, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Does the Proposer want an introductory explanation? Yeah. Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40350	Honored vice presidents, MPs and MPs. A number of bilateral agreements between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia have been concluded between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia, which have come from common and specific interests legally regulated a number of areas of cooperation of interest to both parties. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on police co-operation was signed in Skopje on 28.5.2012, established a modern legal framework between the two countries in the field of police cooperation in accordance with the applicable European standards. Its entry into force ceases to be a co-operation agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia in the fight against international illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances, international terrorism and organised crime that took effect on 16.5.1997. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article, in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, and in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The agreement is also an element of further promotion and deepening of mutual relations and cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia. The law confirms that agreement in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 141(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40351	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Deputy Minister Tonkovic. Before I speak to the HDZ's comment on the proposal for this certification law, it seems to me that a good parliamentary practice and a correct attitude of the government's representative towards the Croatian Parliament would impose on the questions raised, and on the subject on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, as was the previous item of the agenda, that as a representative of the Government you give an answer, you would appreciate in the name and colleagues who remained deprived of your position on a number of issues relating to the new Law on the ID card, that in your future performances, however, there is one practice of respecting those who have received the Croatian voters' mandate to be in the Croatian Parliament. When it comes to the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on Police Cooperation, it is a new level of bilateral relations in the domain of the co-operation of the Ministry of Interior and the Police Directorate between Croatia and Macedonia. The moment is worth saying a few words about Macedonia's international position, so the country, which is on the way of an international affirmation after the breakup of the former SFRY, has encountered a huge difficulty, which is an obstacle in the name of the country's name, which is very burdensome on its international path and its positioning in the International Community, which in some way has not become a member of the North-Atlantic Union when the Republic of Croatia in 2009, and also that fact has prevented negotiations on Macedonia's accession to the European Union for five years in a row despite very clear recommendations from the European Commission, and unfortunately has been blocked due to a lack of consensus at Council level. That fact, of course, also affects internal developments in Macedonia, including a number of democratic processes. We witnessed Parliament leaving the opposition a few months ago, as noted by the European Commission, as well as by the rapporteur for Macedonia, Mr Hovit, in a very recently adopted report in the European Parliament, which notes a trend of political uncertainty that comes first and foremost from me, I would say uncertain European perspectives, and this also refers to the functioning, meeting the criteria primarily political and legal and also the very economic situation in Macedonia. What is important for Croatia, of course, is that in its bilateral relations with the countries of Southeast Europe it seeks to develop quality cooperation. With Macedonia, we have so far in the past 20 years almost 50 bilateral agreements that regulate relations in a number of areas. One of these areas is also co-operation in the context of the Ministry of the Interior's cooperation and we believe that this contract, which is essentially signed if I am not mistaken exactly a year ago, together with the protocol on cooperation during the tourist season, is a significant new, qualitative shift in the cooperation of competent institutions when it comes to areas of cooperation, particularly with regard to the part of terrorism, the financing of terrorism, organised crime, illicit drug trafficking, illegal migration, a number of criminal offences, and in general cooperation between the police of the two countries. We also believe that this very close co-operation between Macedonia and Croatia is important in terms of illegal migration. In 2011, Croatia registered 3,800 illegal migrations while this data rose to 6,800 in 2012. And it would be good if a representative of the ministry gave us one analysis of how such bilateral agreements affect the cooperation of border police, above all, and how they become an instrument of preventing the number of illegal migrations in the Republic of Croatia, and we know that this route across Southeast Europe and from Central Asia and from the direction of some Mediterranean states is a very permissive part of me, I would tell the European continent on which, with special care and partners within the EU, the evaluation of Croatia's ability to enter Schengen space will, above all, lead to an assessment of how much the future external border of the EU is, and this is the border of the Republic of Croatia with Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, permeable, i.e. whether all aspects of the establishment of the Schengen border on the eastern borders of the Republic of Croatia are sufficient, and when the word on everything that needs to provide for the customs and Serbia's necessary access to the security of the security of the financial instruments, and the financial means of the financial instruments, which are necessary to provide that the financial control of the financial means. It would also be interesting to hear the government's position on another legal framework relating to police cooperation between the Southeast European countries. In fact, just a few days ago in Slovenia under the chairmanship of Albania, another meeting of the ministers of the interior of Southeast European countries was held in cooperation with Switzerland through DIKAV, which has its headquarters in Slovenia where Croatia is one of the rare countries of southeastern Europe which is not a party and the Convention on Police Cooperation in Southeast Europe as one multilateral instrument for facilitating communication and co-operation by state police in this area. So I wonder if the political position of the ministry and the Government has been established on the possible accession of this multilateral treaty, which is of course one contribution to quality police cooperation on those topics that seem to be really priority for the Republic of Croatia as a future EU member. The Croatian Democratic Community considers this contract to be of quality, that it will replace an existing contract that covers only part of the scope of the cooperation that has been mentioned in it since 1996, and we hope that from the negotiated procedure for entry into force, which is the exchange of notes when the procedure in the Croatian Parliament is completed as soon as possible and that it will come into force and we will be in favour of the draft law on the ratification of this agreement on police cooperation between the two states. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40352	Thank you very much. The Republic has Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40353	Dear counterpart Plenkovic, at the outset you suggested, and with this suggestion, I fully agree with you that the representatives of the government should treat with respect the MPs selected by the Croatian people in this House, but it also seems to me that Croatian representatives, in fact, representatives chosen by the people, should treat this House with respect and this work they do. At this moment, only one representative sits in the assembly, the other enters the majority of Parliament, and this seems to me like a Hide Park now that you've spoken as a Hide Park where you can speak, no one listens to you, only you can't speak against the Queen. You can say whatever you want here, whoever you want. That's our democracy, and I don't think this really makes any sense. Now Vice President of the Parliament will tell me that I can't get out of my skin, fortunately I can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40354	The reply to the replica Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40355	You have pointed out fellow Vuksic to a situation that is not unusual for the Croatian Parliament, but it may be good to say it openly is not unusual for other parliaments either. I am a little under the circumstances of working in Croatian diplomacy and I have watched other parliaments developed with many years of experience in democracy than ours, so here I am looking at a year and the European Parliament. If we compare the number of MPs currently sitting here with the one sitting in a representative home that has 754 representatives on certain topics, your situation is about the same. In the U.S. Congress, congressmen watch television debates most often, and when it comes to them, it is rare that there are more than a few MPs in the hall where the plenary session takes place. It's not unusual, it's much more important to me than the number of people in the hall on a subject. I think it's a matter of clarification and communication that it's not necessary to have 151 representatives on each subject, I think the practice shows that both our countries and other countries. And perhaps it is time for this to also be communicated to the Croatian public because this is how parliamentary democracies and parliaments themselves operate. Unfortunately, however delicate this may seem, I don't think it's about Hyde Park, I think it's a serious issue that deserves a serious debate, and it's a matter of political selection of representatives' clubs as much as and who will engage and speak on what topic. But it's just how the Croatian Parliament works, and I think it's good for the public to get used to it because it's basically normal. And so let us focus rather on the content, perhaps respecting individual amendments to the answers to their questions, on the dialogue of those who are there, those who are not there, it is certain that they have some valid reason to justify them not at this time in the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40356	Thank you very much. An individual debate. First in line and the only so far reported colleague, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40357	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, perhaps I should continue these circumstances first, to be a little bit, not to say the replica, because then I'm going to be resuscitated. Exactly what Mr Plenkovic said, however, is what is visible. It is evident that there are not many MPs in other parliaments either. However, what is invisible, and what is present there, is the schedule of the sessions, which days are held in which agenda, when who comes to the agenda which is simply not the case with us. We don't know when a session begins, when it ends, which days of the week lasts. The agenda adopted in the morning is not worth the afternoon. So all these other preparations just don't work. And further, what's visible is we don't have professional support for the work of MPs. You in the German Parliament at 700, slightly less than 600 MPs have 2600 what we call advisors who work to prepare the law and they argue not in the plenary session thoroughly but on committees. To return to this topic of this law that is here today for discussion. The clear point is that relations between the country's police must be settled so they can co-operate. So in this sense, and this is one of the laws, one of those type-laws, and it sort of solves in the best way what it can be said about so far. However, I would warn here of a few things that, from this point on, are problems that I can come up with that we don't have so far or that we didn't predict how to deal with them in the near future. On the one hand, this law also provides for Article 4(2) that, with the mutual consent of the parties, these forms of cooperation which are previously listed may extend other forms of cooperation in accordance with their national legislation. And it's not in itself controversial. However, the question is who will be informed and who will discuss these new forms of cooperation that has been extended by this law? We simply have no practice or obligation to report on these cooperations to the Ministry of the Interior when it comes to the exchange of classified data and personal data exchanged with other countries. It is not, even we do not have a practice in any way but we do not have a obligation, it does not appear in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament that supervision of the Ministry of Interior is within the competence of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. It doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure. We have some practice, but if the ministry said it wouldn't then it could be called to this part. On the other hand, you have in this proposal as well as in others a very thin and vague limit, which is intelligence, and what is police criminal data from the record and by this, that is, that the border is not always clear with the best will. There must be no bad intentions at all, but if you're going to report that some hooligans are traveling to a game or possibly hooligans or someone who's planning something, which he didn't do or someone who consumed marijuana, then at one point the crime in another is not, and the records are being exchanged, and how he's going to end up and that after some time after 2, 3, 5 or 15 years he's not going to get that information out of someone's experience. In fact, we don't have the analysis patterns so we can say what needs to be added to these laws. And that's what I think, I don't have a proposal a clear thing because it's a matter of proposal that should be installed here, but what I'd like is to introduce one obligation, one practice to do an analysis of the exchange of these data, the quantities, the content, the problems and the simple picture of that practice so that we know in future what you said in that other law, you had real reasons to be able to evaluate these things. And it seems to me something that we need to take care of to make these things precisely defined. In this sense, it is not an objection to this bill, but to the possible consequences that we should know who will discuss it at which intervals, in which way, under which conditions the Croatian Parliament or the committee responsible should take due account of whether it is not only classified data but also of personal data that is increasingly a problem of stumbling as much as possible in some society that we strive to say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40358	Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40359	Professor Tudjman agrees with you. You were referring to what Mr. Plenkovic was saying. There is a similar practice in Europe. We know we have an observer in the europarliament and we know what it looks like from his stories, but we know something from the media about what the situation in the europarliament looks like. However, I would like to compare the europarliament with the Croatian Parliament and in importance. And the other thing is I would be happy if the Croatian Parliament had as much influence as the British Parliament or other European parliaments and that there are so few of us in Parliament as there are them. For what? Because I believe and have repeatedly said that the Parliament is a ficus of the government and that is proof of Croatian practice in that. It has been said before that in Europe, it is a practice for people to do their jobs in their offices, prepare for discussions, and watch discussions on screens. I ask you nicely to see how many Assembly representatives are currently watching this debate and how much they are interested in, perhaps only one man may be following this Laburist ours who is following because we are here and sitting in the assembly or not sitting, therefore very little. I'm talking about the responsibility of this House not only because it's a little bit of a position now but also about the influence and dignity of the Parliament and when I was talking about when the press mistranslated me that I was talking about protecting our salaries here. It's totally incorrect, but it's about the integrity of the Parliament. And Parliament's highness is what we Parliamentarians are infringing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40360	Thank you very much. Answer to the replica of counterpart Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40361	Thank you very much. Look at one example that it is not the European Parliament. As a committee we were both in German and Hungarian and in Slovak everywhere we each showed us a representative calendar for the current year. In Germany's parliament, clubs are Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday's committees, Thursday by midnight if Friday to noon is a plenary session. 22 weeks a year. So less than half a year, 22 weeks a year. But the debates are the most intense, the debates are being held on boards and things are being resolved there. It can't happen like what happened to us, we think that two, three weeks ago, we all laughed at the amendments that the Minister of Agriculture gave to the law that he brought himself were from nomotechnical to some others unprepared because they have to stand behind the proposal of people, experts who will comb all of this to the last point. We simply don't have that, and there's no debate in the Assembly to say, well, we have a situation like this today, but we need to increase the number of professional people, staff in the Parliament, so we don't know every year about a number of people to increase until we get to that level. And that's what this Parliament does in public eyes that disqualifies it in a certain way, not whether we're sitting here at the vote or not. And by the way, in Germany, if you're duly told in the vote, you pay 30 or 40 euros for not coming. Why? Because a year in advance you know when that session will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40362	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. And tomorrow at 9.30, we'll discuss the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Law. Thank you very much and goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-28-0.u40363	We are going to the Final Proposal of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on police cooperation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 360. The debate on the final text of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 104 votes to pass the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Macedonia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on police cooperation in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Dear colleagues from the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, We continue with the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. It is next - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 363 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and you have received the bill in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You've received reports from these working bodies. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy interior minister respected Evelyn Tonkovic.
