ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34044	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a humanitarian demining plan for 2011. The initial basis for drawing up the 2011 plan was established a mine suspected area of 815.3 km2. The area is exclusively polluted by unexploded means of killing in the size of 6.9 km2 and the planned financing amounting to 299 714 million kuna, of which for humanitarian demining operations 246 501 million kuna. The implementation of demining and general reconnaissance in 2011 removed the risk of mine explosives and unexploded killings from 70 million 355 318 meters in Croatia2. Demining operations through 186 idea projects of search and demining have removed the mine risk of a surface area of 23 million 637 and 362 metres2. Mine-mining operations aimed at reducing through 23 idea demining projects removed mine risk from the surface of 4 million 207 027 898 m2. In accordance with the above, in 2011 in the Republic of Croatia, the total demining area of 27 million 665 and 260 m2. General reconnaissance in order to produce project documentation and update mine suspected areas has been reduced by 31 million 750 425 m2. The general demining survey aimed at reducing mine suspected areas by another 10 million 939 633 m2 resulting in the mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia being reduced by 42 million 690 058 m2. According to the above, the size of the mine suspected area in the Republic of Croatia on 31 December 2011 is 745.5 km2. The size of the area polluted exclusively by unexploded means of killing on 31 December 2011 is 7,3 km2. Demining operations in 2011 removed the risk of mine explosives and unexploded killings in the Republic of Croatia from 27 million 665 260 m2 of which by search method 8 million 390 701 m2, and by demining method 19 million 274 559 m2. According to the 2011 humanitarian demining plan mentioned, the demining section exceeded 9.5%. On 31 December 2011, the mine suspected territory of the Republic of Croatia was marked with a 15861 mine threat mark, and in addition, the area contaminated exclusively by unexploded killings were marked with 389 hazard codes. As regards the structure of the demining areas of the agricultural area, the total is 39.1%, the forest area 38.3%, meadows and pastures 17.6%, and maquis and karsts with 5% share. Of the total demining transactions in 2011, 32% refer to safety priorities, 65.7 related to socioeconomic development, and 2.3% to environmental priorities. In 2011, 10 pyrotechnic supervisors and 25 pyrotechnic overseers were conducted. During the implementation of the projects on which expert supervision of completed search or demining operations was carried out was found and destroyed in 1995 against pedestrian mines, 2421 against armored mines and 10479 pieces of unexploded killings. Recurrences were imposed four times after the invention of mine explosives or unexploded killings. In 2011, a total of 30 authorised legal entities with a total of 636 pyrotechnics, 54 mine-mining machines and 20 mine-exploding dogs and unexploded killings were accredited and executed. The largest share in humanitarian demining operations in 2011 was the company "Mungos demining" d.o.o. with a share of 11.9% compared to total jobs. Then, the company "Doking mine action" d.o.o. with a share of 10.5 and company "Researcher" d.o.o. with a proportion of 6.7%. The total since the establishment of the Croatian Mine Action Centre until 31.12.2011 was invested in the demining of 3.7 billion kuna. The state budget participates with 58% in total demining funds with a total of 1.9 billion kuna. In 2011, as well as previous years, the largest source of financing for demining operations was the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, which took part in financing with 62.4%. The average price of all demining transactions in 2011 was 6.86 kuna per square metre without VAT, which is by 11.6% lower than in 2010. Of the planned 246 million 501 million kunas, 289 643 366,09 kn was achieved, which is 117.5% of the planned funds. The 2011 state budget for the Croatian Mine Action Centre totals 284 654 881 kuna. The funds spent on management activities and administrations involving material costs, staff expenditures amounting to 41 million 229 536 kuna and the achievement of the plan by 96.7%. Costs were reduced by 2% compared to last year. Donations. In 2011, demining operations financed by donors amounting to 16 million, 16 930 million 550.25 kn and 77.7 planned funds compared to 2010. The amount of demining donations is down 40%. Legal persons, investors financed demining operations totalling 90 million 523 047 kuna, i.e. 31.3%. The biggest investors in 2011 were Croatian forests with over 74 million kuna, Croatian waters with 11 million kuna and Croatian roads with 5 million kuna. In accordance with the Law on humanitarian demining, education on mine dangers and assistance to mine victims was implemented during 2011 with the co-ordinated role of the Croatian Mine Action Centre and in collaboration with the authorities of the state administration in accordance with their competences, as well as domestic, international organisations and associations. During 2011, three mine incidents and four mine accidents occurred. Tragic accidents occurred during demining, unfortunately. One pyrotechnician died, one suffered severe bodily injuries, and two minor bodily injuries. In mine accidents, a civilian suffered severe bodily injuries, and one suffered minor bodily injuries. There were no injuries in two accidents. From the draft Croatian Mine Action Centre in 1998 until 31.12.2011, 233 mine incidents and accidents occurred in which a total of 311 people were killed. Unfortunately, 114 people died. Severe bodily injuries were sustained by 127 people while 70 were more easily injured. Of the 66 people killed were pyrotechnics, 26 killed pyrotechnics, and 22 victims were under 18, 5 killed. Joint actions, education and markings and warnings have led to a halt in the lives of children. The last one was in 2004. In total, from 1991 to 31 December 2011, in 1342 mine incidents and accidents, 506 people were killed in 1960. International co-operation under the activities of the Croatian Mine Action Centre in 2011 has developed intensively with 13 countries. Traditionally again in 2011 Croatian Mine Action Centre and CROMACTRO d.o.o. jointly organised an international expert consultation involving representatives of national UN mine action centres, NGOs, scientific institutions, demining companies and equipment manufacturers. According to the data presented in the report, it is apparent that the 2011 humanitarian demining plan was implemented almost entirely. The affairs of humanitarian demining have been agreed and executed to a greater extent than planned. Marking of all mine suspected areas, coordination and education on mine dangers and assistance to mine victims and international co-operation has been carried out in the scope and manner as set out in the 2011 Plan. Well, that would be brief. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34045	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to take part in the debate? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. There is a SDP club in the Croatian Parliament and a respected representative of Mirela Holly. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34046	Dear President, dear colleagues and respected colleagues at the very beginning of the presentation on the report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2011 on behalf of the SDP club, I would like to say that the SDP Club will support the adoption of this report, although we can read in the 2011 report that the plan has been exceeded by 9.5% while we cannot be satisfied with the current situation, because as long as there are mine suspected areas in Croatia and as long as people are suffering from these killings we cannot and should not be satisfied and recall the fact that Croatia is still polluted by mines only during the debates like these. We remind you that the demining plan for 2011 set out the following basic tasks: the reduction of mine suspected area and the area polluted exclusively by unexploded deadly resources by the Republic of Croatia by 71.9 km square. This objective was not achieved because the implementation of demining and general reconnaissance in 2011 removed the risk of mine-explosive and unexploded killing funds from the area of 70 million 355 thousand 318 square meters, representing the realization of 97.9% of the plan. The following was the complete removal of the mine risk of recovery and the return of displaced persons. There's no special mention of this, so I'm guessing it's been realized. Third, demining 11 km of square hurricanes. This goal has not been achieved either because 10.8 km of square hurricanes have been demined. Fourth, maintaining the mark of the entire mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia. On the last day of 2011, the mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia was marked with 15 thousand 861 mine risk marking, and the areas polluted exclusively by unexploded killings were marked with 389 hazard codes. Given the fact that we have no record of how it was realized, I guess we should conclude that this goal is also realised. Fifthly, we have a co-ordination of activities and mine danger education and assistance to mine victims. The report lists several tribunes, lectures, education, coordination but remains the fact that no national campaign was conducted in 2011 which would lead to the domestic population, as well as our guests from other countries who visit areas where mine suspected areas are still in danger of mines. And the sixth, positioning and promotion of the Croatian mine action system in the International Community. Various activities are mentioned to conclude that Croatia has successfully positioned itself in the International Community in the field of mine action. What can we conclude from this report? In the SDP club, we conclude that there is a discrepancy with the National Mine Action Programme, so it is necessary to redefine the National Programme because it is inconclusive in these circumstances of crisis and multi-annual recession. In the SDP club, we also conclude that there is no exploitation of all existing capacity on the market and it is necessary to design concrete ways of making them more useful. We are concerned about the decline in prices in the many-year continuity that arises due to the lack of work, which is due to the degradation of the activity itself which is highly risky and necessary, we consider it to be a redistribution of the financial demining cake, i.e. that the large separation for the public service responsible for demining is reduced, i.e. that more money is used for specific demining tasks rather than for the financing of the clerk. We also worry about the CROMAC's unpreparedness to use other sources of funding, especially from EU funds and the like. In the SDP club, we believe that the Croatian Mine Action Centre should be a modern, flexible, socially responsible and rational organisation that ensures reliable, fast, efficient and economic action by predicting needs and acting preventively. CROMAC needs to be modernised and more efficient processes and activities with the help of modern IT systems. For this it is necessary to continuously improve the organisation, infrastructure, education and automated information system using all potential in selective investment in new technologies in line with development plans. The Croatian Mine Action Centre employs 14 employees in the Central Office of Sisak, 20 in Zadar branch, 28 in Osijek branch and 30 in the branch office of Karlovac. An analysis of the organisational structure can identify a large number of management posts compared to operational executive posts. In particular, 66 employees work in the Central Office in Sisak, which is 33.8% are in the leading positions, i.e. we have a 1:2, one executive position in two executive posts. The question of justification for the existence of 2 Deputy Directors and 6 Assistant Directors shall be raised, in particular, if the Internal Design Regulation of the Authority of the State Administration adopted at the first meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 29 December 2011 and in which the rationalisation of the structural sites in the bodies of the State Administration is noticeable. The current structure of CROMAC and the number of employees is also questioned from the point of view of economic justification. For the current number of around 150 budget employees, 41 299 536 kuna is allocated, i.e. from 274 863 kuna per year per employee or 22 905 kuna per month per employee. It should be noted that that amount is incomplete with the amount allocated for field work which is planned at the demining service position. In any event, it is necessary to reorganise the entire organisation as well as the business processes that take place within the CROMAC. The Centre for Testing, Development and Training should also be mentioned, the company established by CROMAC to carry out demining research and development activities and to coordinate the work of international experts dealing with mine-free demining issues and the CROMAC Fund, which was also established by CROMAC in order to collect demining funds, research to adopt new technologies in demining activities and help mine victims. Where operations and activities of those entities are analysed, the overlap of certain competences and non-definedness in the liability segment shall be seen. On the other hand, in the Republic of Croatia, according to the legislation, the market model for deviations in humanitarian demining operations is applied, and the demining model in the Republic of Croatia must also be analysed through the prism of economic problems at the time of the economic crisis. At present, 33 economic operators have been accredited to have a fundamental demining activity. 32 companies are privately owned, and Mungos demining was founded by CROMAC and is owned by the Republic of Croatia. 627 pyrotechnicians and 56 auxiliary employees, i.e. 683 employees in the operational section, are involved in demining activities, i.e. 33 companies. Analyzing the structure data and the number of public sector employees i.e. in state-owned bodies and companies, we come up with 240 employees who pay salaries from the state budget. Further comparison of the public and private sector shows that the ratio is 1:2.5 which is far from ideal and ultimately shows that such a relationship also burdens the price of demining. The possibility of maximum applicability of existing capacities on the market should be considered from the aspect of the total number of working days and the average applicability of working days during the year, and given the obligations of economic operators to collective contract workers, they are annual holidays, shift work and favourable or unfavourable weather conditions for the implementation of humanitarian demining, rain, snow, frozen ground, fog, strong wind, low temperatures. It is also noted from the analysis of the work of economic operators that primary and only demining activities should accumulate cash reserves during the financial year for the remaining quarter of the financial year during the nine working months. In conditions currently prevailing on the market, the drastic decline of the prices offered due to deflation and recession is at stake as well as the existence of the security of the rights of workers participating in the demining process, defined by a collective contract or the very quality of the handling of humanitarian demining operations itself. In addition to the inability of 100% usability of existing capacities for humanitarian demining operations, there is also a high financial burden on economic operators subject to legal and sublegal acts that regulate the specified activity and which ultimately collect the demining process, such as costs related to compliance with the obligations arising from the legal provisions and the signed collective contract, the cost of maintenance and testing of equipment and resources, increased costs of logistic support for search and demining projects, accommodation and transport of employees, etc., and costs burdening economic operators in the education and education segment of workers for pyrotechnicians. As a result of the concern of economic operators that they will not provide enough work for their employees, a drastic and economically unwarranted decline in the price of services, search or demining offered in competitions directly affecting the quality of the performance of works, the safety of all participants in the process, as well as the rights of employees defined by the collective agreement. As a consequence of the fact that, as well as by a number of economic operators, there is an ongoing violation of the collective agreement as well as the avoidance of its financial obligations. In view of all the above mentioned in the SDP club, we consider it necessary to define the development of a mine action system based on the state of the system and the requirements that must be provided under the conditions of the external and internal environment. The economics of the system must be integrated into any activity, function and task and, over time, it must become close and constantly present to each of the employees of the system. In addition to the principles of building a modern economic system in the development of the same system, there must be a constant presence and the principles that are assumed but are rarely decided, which are: constraint to end-users, quick response to end-user needs, concern for people and continuous human development. At the very end of the SDP club, we believe that in order to establish a more efficient and quality demining system in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to reorganise and reduce CROMAC with the emphasis on the establishment of more quality supervision, redefining services of other demining entities, amending and supplementing existing legal and sublegal regulations with the emphasis on the precise powers and responsibilities of each demining entity, making a proposal for a new national programme in line with a strategy that will respect all the circumstances and factors that are current and which will be limited or development support in the next period. In the SDP Club we are absolutely convinced that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the new director of CROMAC Drazen Jakopec will be successful in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34047	Thank you very much. We have registered replicas and respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34048	Dear Mr. Parliament President, you said that you in the SDP concluded that at the time of the recession this demining exercise is inconclusive for financial reasons. You still said in the end that money should not be spent on administrative matters but on demining. Well, I'm telling you, fellow Holly, that you in the SDP have a bad conclusion. Every conclusion must be premise and soligism and conclusion. On what basis did you conclude? Because there's no money. There is money because in these elections, you have cast 75 million kunas into the wind, unnecessary elections for the European Parliament. If you'd given it for this demining based on my quick calculation, it's 10 and a half million square meters, oranic, ecological... I know what. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you've got a bad conclusion or you're running a bad policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34049	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34050	Dear colleague Holly, here from this report you can actually see, you can see two Croatians. You can see one Croatia that has money and one Croatia that has no money. For some there are crises, for some there is no crisis. What you said, this data is actually amazing, 6 assistant directors, one executive place I'm talking about CROMAC, one executive post, two executive posts. It is only proof that there is one Croatia that is convulsing under the burden and another that does not feel a crisis at all, which is not affected by the crisis. Mr. Matic, acting as defence minister, said that the Defence Registry is one of the most honorable registers and that it should be published. They announced it didn't happen. I agreed with them. So I suggest we publish another register. I'm sure a member of HDZ, SDP, HNS and every party will be honorable. But I'd like to publish a register of all those who are employed in the state services just on the basis of a membership book that's the only degree they have when the parties take care of it now we're surprised that there's a lot of leading places here. Every time the party hired its own. So now we also see that one party has even sent faxes to pick up places just for 1600 kuna and it is difficult to come to Croatia today. And when we talk about this painful problem, I agree with Mr. Marasovic, he has money. There is money but we waste it because there are two Croatians I repeat, one who feels the crisis and one who does not feel the crisis. And this register would certainly be very well accepted by the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34051	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and the Honorable Representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34052	Your Honor, Deputy Minister. We have a 2011 report ahead of us. Yesterday we also had a report relating to 2011 and on that occasion I don't know who else was well noticed that such reports should be submitted in this House in any case before the budget, the budget for next year, because it would certainly give a reading of a lot of the elements that are important in the adoption of the budget for next year. One such example is certainly this report, a demining report showing, among other things, a lack of funds, or a demining questionable plan, which is scheduled for Croatia to be resolved by 2019. This full 17 years after the war it should be long enough to demining or at least most demining. Croatia we have a situation, as the esteemed deputy minister said from 700 and something rather than right now since this report is for 2011 but currently has 684 square kilometers, which represents only a little less than two-thirds of the initially contaminated area. From 91st to today we heard some numbers in the media are given to read some slightly different non-essential but there are some differences so in these 1348 accidents in mine fields over 500 people died or, specifically, according to the data I received or which CROMAC published on the press, it was 508 people, over a thousand and 100 injured, weighing something few hundred easier and it is in any case a data that is not negligible, which is serious. Croatia has committed itself, as I said by 2019, to demining the entire area. Competent people, people who are experts in this branch, say that our capacities, or the capacities of companies dealing with this job, can be performed at an annual level twice as much work as they are doing now. The biggest problem is the money again, it reportedly takes about 4 billion kuna to complete this project, and we have a situation, let's say that the budget has reduced the project's projected budget by 20% of this budget that is in place today, reportedly next week or beyond going and rebalancing. I agree with my predecessor who said that a large part of the problem is also an irregular, incorrect distribution of these funds and even the overbooking of the administrative apparatus and all the other accompanying apparatus, so that when you look at the total number of pyrotechnics themselves is less than 50%, which I think is really inadmissible. But I'm not going to say like Dr. Marasovic that you can use that because the decision has been made. But let's say you now have the next feature of withdrawing our troops from the Golan High School, so there's a chance that at least 35 million kunas on the annual level are used in this and I think it's certainly justifiable to invest funds. The second problem that exists when demining is the situation within this activity. This report stated that for 2011 the price per square metre was 6 kuna and 86 limes, which is by 11.6% lower than in 2010. However, this trend of price collapse continued, and in 2012 there was a case for the company to come forward with an offer of 2 kuna and 57 limes. And then we get to that thesis that is constantly going through even here several times emphasized that the bone square meter of grass square meters of land is more expensive than the demining of a square metre. It's really inconceivable, amazing and the problem is how it happened. It's one of those details, no matter how much we tend to the free market or not, but it's one of those areas where the market really shouldn't be allowed to be self-regulatory. It comes to the fact that the stronger ones are going consciously to knock down prices to destroy their competition. This comes to these embarrassing prices because this is a really embarrassing price to eat in that price is the human life of a pyrotechnician. At that price, the employer should pay for the fuel, pay for the transport, pay for the mandatory sanity that must be present, pay for the costs of his administration. There's a lot more to it and a price of 2 kuna 57 limes. This unfair competition that happens to be knowingly collapsing prices only to destroy competition has something more to do with it, which is that these employers force their pyrotechnicians to work overtime and not pay for their daily or overtime hours, the mass of things they have to do to them, even as far as security equipment is concerned, is a very questionable situation. And it is not negligible that many of these employers avoided their obligations to the state, so they did not pay any contributions or taxes. Such companies go bankrupt, workers pyrotechnicians don't primarily get a few months' pay, the company goes bankrupt. He's forced to go to another employer who blackmails him in the same way. This was not one case, even in this report it said that six such companies had stopped working. But look who's willing to look for a little bit, those same employers just showed up again with another company, another company, and they're continuing the same activity. This is what the state should be actively involved in, and I think that the state should primarily set some minimum price below which it really shouldn't go, regardless of the cost that costs the state, but the state must be aware that it affects quality and one without the other does not go. At these parameters, our pyrotechnician should check between 800 and 900 square meters daily to earn his salary, or that the employer may function normally. Clear for those who are not referred to international norms are between 40 and 90 meters depending on both the terrain and other circumstances. What I've been saying so far about the pyrotechnicians themselves, I think it's clear to everyone that people who are calm have to do these jobs, who don't have any problems like pay, I haven't got 3 months, do I have a home to direct, can I pay, don't know if they have the basic supplies, so there's one thing that really needs to be imagined. Today, more than 600 pyrotechnicians are registered in Croatia. Since the beginning of demining, 60 have died. Do you know of any other occupations where 10% of the employees died? Is this really not the information that every state, every ministry, the resolution ministry that deals with this problem, would have to seriously imagine and make some concrete moves to change this situation. Thank you very much. Otherwise, we'll accept the report, but it still applies to 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34053	Thank you very much. And now we have one replica at the club's position, our own club, the respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34054	The replicas are actually, if this makes any sense in 2013 report for 2011, I know that several more reports from 2011 are on the Parliament's agenda, let's say about HRT, about the programme, about the Programme Council will probably be discussed this year before summer or in autumn or perhaps for the year itself for 2011. Whatever that makes sense, we've already chosen a new director, we should discuss a program of work that doesn't seem to meet what was expected, and we're going to talk about 2011. So this topic of 2011, we should be discussing 2012 and not 2011. Well, I just wonder often when this is about to happen isn't much of a controversy, but the question of all of us is, does that make sense?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34055	Thank you very much. Now your fellow respected Mladen Novak will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34056	Thank you very much. Well, that's really questionable, I think it's questioning the functioning of the general state. We can treat this, and that's still the 2011 report, it doesn't matter. This is very important because this report is actually reading the parameters for the budget, and this should be very important. Yesterday there was the same report as the year 2011, today we have this report. All the time we've been getting new points of the agenda, reports are pushing themselves to the end of that agenda, and then we come into a situation where we actually talk about these reports when there's a story about the story. Now it really doesn't make sense anymore. If a report like this had been or since yesterday before the budget was adopted, it would have had a whole other freshness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34057	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34058	Dear counterpart Novak, in Croatia another 12 counties under mines, in Croatia is nearly 700 km2 below mines and if we continue to deminise this process at this rate for another 20 years and many in these minefields left behind from the last war and will die. Maybe if at this time of the big Croatian crisis, I wouldn't call it a global or European crisis, let's prevent the purchase of new 1700 luxury cars, if we were all driving in these old Mercedes, the BMWs that I've seen can still support both the Prime Minister and the Secretary and all those who are employed either through mail or through a letter or through a recommendation or through a party card. I believe this procedure would be much faster. Or to reduce the number of those who do not enter minefields at the Croatian Mine Action Centre, but simply there on a small salary, they realize even the benefits of a work experience, and they have not seen a sign of danger from mines. So here's my appeal and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, let's direct these procurement funds or to leaching these 1700 new cars because obviously these can still take longer, let's focus this on demining.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34059	Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34060	Thank you very much. Well, I agree that there is absolutely a way to find funding for this and what a colleague from the SDP club mentioned and use EU funds in a better way, redistribution of funds within these demining organisations themselves. I don't want this to sound like some false pathetic, but the fact is that if we're away from it doesn't mean that this problem doesn't exist. Those residents who live with it constantly experience it quite differently than those who have no contact with it. And almost every, not nearly every year, but every year, it happened that one of the people in Banja specifically Komarov, Moščenica, Sunja, every year there was some kind of death, some kind of destruction in the minefield. When you live far from it you're not in touch with that problem and it's not that problem until it's happening with me or until it's happening to someone of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34061	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDZ club and the respected representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34062	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent funds for 2011. The humanitarian demining plan refers to reducing land pollution by mines and explosive means by relatively available means. The humanitarian demining plan for which the initial basis was established was a mine suspected area of 815.3 square kilometres, an area exclusively polluted by unexploded killings in the size of 6.9 km and the planned funds of 299 million kuna in 2011. The main tasks were to reduce the mine suspected area and the area polluted exclusively by unexploded killings by 71.9 square kilometres, to remove the mine risk from the areas of recovery and return of displaced persons, to demining 11 square kilometres of orans, to maintain the mark of the entire mine suspected territory of the Republic of Croatia, to coordinate activities and to education on mine dangers and to assist mine victims, to position and promote Croatia's anti-mine action system in the International Community. According to a report on the reduction of the mine suspected area and the area polluted exclusively by 71.9 square miles of unexploded killings. 97.9 planned, i.e. in 2011 a total risk of mine-exploding and unexploded killings from 70 million 355 thousand 318 square meters was removed in the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, it should be noted that in 2011, the greatest achievement of demining operations was achieved in the Virovitica-Podravska County as much as 297.1% of what was foreseen by the increase in investment of Croatian forests in demining and forest roads in the Virovitica-Podravska County, while the least achieved in Split-Dalmatia County was 51.2% of planned jobs, which was also conditioned by the transfer of some of the state budget funds to the demining of orans in eastern and central Croatia with the aim of ensuring the continuity of demining operations during the year. The report further states that the largest participation in the demining area structure has an agricultural area of 56.7%, then a forest area of 38.3%, and a maquis and a 5% stake. Priorities in the identification of demining areas shall be aligned with the proposals of the counties, i.e. with their economic interests, and with the proposals of legal persons who have invested in demining the areas they hold. There is also an extended and secure space with the most common road infrastructure, which is a prerequisite not only for road planning but also for ensuring the return of the population and revitalisation of the wider area. A major importance in the humanitarian demining plan for 2011 is dedicated to demining areas of importance for the tourist offer of the Republic of Croatia, and for this purpose a complete mine danger has been removed from certain tourist zones. The report noted that in 2011, it had been accredited and carried out operations to demining 30 authorised legal entities with a total of 636 pyrotechnics, 54 demining machines and 20 dogs to detect mine-exploding and unexploded killings. Of the 30 authorised legal entities, 9 were evaluated for the first time for performing search and demining operations, and 6 legal persons were suspended from the assessment of their ability. During 2011, expert supervision established unquality work in 4 cases and ordered repetitive work. We consider it particularly important to note that the largest share in humanitarian demining operations in 2011 had the companies "Mungos demining" d.o.o., the company "Doking demining" d.o.o. and the company "Researcher" d.o.o. The humanitarian demining is financed from several sources of state budget, legal entity and state administration bodies as investors, loans from the World Bank and donors. Funding is also a big problem in this area. The report really shows very closely the financing of this activity, and even gives parallel data for the past years for the funds provided in the state budget. However, it should be noted that the funds are not nearly enough, and financial resources are precisely the main brakes at the speed of demining the Republic of Croatia. According to the national anti-minor action programme of the Republic of Croatia relating to the 10-year period from 2009 to 2019, the largest activities are planned from 2012 to 2015, which will require around 2 billion and 60 million kuna. The National Programme also states that to achieve the planned objectives, it is necessary to increase the number of pyrotechnicians and, in particular, since 2012, the highest number of pyrotechnicians is needed in 2013 and 2014. Last summer, however, we witnessed protests by pyrotechnics in Zadar. In fact, pyrotechnicians decided to protest in Zadar because of the difficult situation in which 50 pyrotechnics were fired, and more than two hundred are afraid of going to the Employment Service because they are on hold. The pyrotechnicians then warned that 23 demining companies 30 had no business in one week, which is unacceptable in view of the surface area of the Republic of Croatia that is under mines, but also adopted documents that determine the dynamics of demining and determine the ultimate goal – Croatia without mines. At that time, pyrotechnicians also warned that at the last tender they were offered a demining price of 2.5 kuna per metre square, which compared to the average demining price in 2011 which was 6.86 kuna without VAT is indeed incomprehensiblely low. In this protest, the public is familiar with many data such as the amount of net salary of pyrotechnicians who work for a month and their actual incomes in the light of the lack of engagement. Thus, it is said that pyrotechnicians have a net salary of 7 thousand kuna if the full working month is, but their salary does not exceed 3800 kuna due to lack of engagement. The Law on humanitarian demining defines the material rights of pyrotechnicians, and individual rights such as internships, insurance in increased duration and improvement of amendments and additions to the 2007 Act, i.e. 2008 Act. We at the HDZ Representatives' Club think that pyrotechnics should not be forced to protest. Their work is extremely dangerous, they can lose their lives every day, get serious physical damage that will no longer allow them to work. The law seeks to provide pyrotechnicians and members of their families in the most difficult situations, but it is unacceptable for these people's salaries to be so low as it was highlighted in the protest. The public is extremely sensitive and reacts sharply when someone who receives salaries from the state budget increases the salary, but not when it comes to pyrotechnicians. We believe that in the following report there should be full information on the material and other rights of pyrotechnicians and other employees in companies dealing with demining at least in average values. The status of pyrotechnicians must be regulated in a satisfactory manner, especially since not everyone can be a pyrotechnician but only a mentally and physically perfectly healthy person. The report noted that in 2011, there were 636 pyrotechnicians, so a relatively small number, and today there are probably fewer. It may also be necessary to point out, and the report also says, that the draft Croatian Mine Action Centre in 1998 and by the end of 2011, there were 233 mine incidents and accidents in which a total of 311 people died. However, 114 died, among those 114 killed, were 26 pyrotechnics, and 40 were killed. If we're going to look at mine incidents and accidents from 1991 to the end of 2011, then that number is going up in fear. 1342 incidents and accidents, 1960 victims of whom 506 people were killed. At the HDZ Club, we believe it is necessary to consider in more detail the status and material safety of pyrotechnicians, and to discuss with pyrotechnicians and their employers the most qualitative solution and to approach the changes that would improve their status as soon as possible, which should not require significant financial efforts given the relatively small number of people. The report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2011 keeps HDZ Representatives' Club high quality and exhaustive and we will support the adoption of this report, noting that the following report is supplemented by information on the status and material rights of pyrotechnicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34063	Thank you, Your Honor. It is up to the HDSSB club and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34064	Dear Mr. President of the HDSB Club will support this report, however, we would like to draw attention to the fact that other MPs have already warned that it would be good to see the demining in 2013 immediately with this 2011 report, we have a report for 2012 and I would like to say the efficiency of the work of the Croatian Parliament, but we could also see further how much demining is actually going in the Republic of Croatia and at which point demining can be expected to end. So I'm going to start this debate with an article by an American journalist who, among other things, and about this, I'd like to ask these colleagues who come to the polls on Friday to raise a handle at least a little bit to listen to, don't bother me, but these decibels sometimes also affect the mood of certain MPs. So this American journalist said that there's a country that borders itself where the most beautiful women live, the talent declines, where the unemployed work the most, where people live on the most fertile land, where trains are late in the order of driving, where everyone plays football and wins in water polo, handball or tennis, where everyone is in a hurry to work and no one arrives in time, where 8 hours of working time is 12 hours, where health care is free and treatment is expensive, where journalists are free to write whatever they are ordered, where the global crisis gets citizenship, where public procurement is secret and state secrets are public where history repeats every day, where the richest ones who have never worked, where the illitels write history, where laws are illegal, anarchy is a normal state, where the government despises citizens as unwanted witnesses, where they live out of the future, where they don't have the right on the present, where they don't have any more fun, where they't think they't want to go back to go to the wrong, where they don't want to go to go to the wrong, where they't want to go to go to go to the wrong, where they't go to go to the wrong. I didn't name that country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34065	Dear colleague, may I ask you a favor?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34066	Yes, you can. Here you go. I'm listening very carefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34067	Now, allow me. I understand your need to like the citizens, but on the agenda is the Mine Action Report. If we're going to discuss the subject, and that's what we agreed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34068	Time to stop me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34069	Well, it would have been better if I took it from you, and before you said it, I didn't, I let you say what you think, what you have to say and now if you have something to say about demining and problems that really affect society and the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34070	Here, absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34071	If you have a constructive, even better. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34072	Yeah. And if you recognized yourself in this text from an American journalist, I didn't even specify which country it was. So I would like to quote this American journalist and say that if we continue, if we continue in this way to demining the territory of the Republic of Croatia that this demining will take another 20 years because clearly there is no financial means of demining. That the most endangered parts were the ones that were the most and gave the most for Croatia, from Slavonia, Baranja, Lika-Senj County, so all those areas that were directly hit by the Serbian-Cetitic Army. The national programme, which took place in September 2009, brought by Mr Leko the Croatian Parliament is scheduled for the demining to be completed by 2019. So at such a pace, at such a pace and with this kind of relationship, and you among other things as President of the Parliament who does not allow an MP to speak openly and open up the topic of how some things are dealt with in this country. This demining will not last for an expert assessment, not for us politicians, not for 20 years, but for 40 years. Among the most critical areas are Osijek-Baranja County, the vicinity of Gospić, Otočca, Petrinje, Gline and the mine suspected area, 15,650 mine-hazard codes were marked, so in these areas. The expertise of our pyrotechnicians is enviable, but it's holding back the lack of money, and we're capacitated to more work, but we're doing as much as the state budget and donations allow. In addition, we feel that we are underrated because the price of a square metre demining despite all the dangers that this job carries with us is equal to the bone of the grass. That's not what Vinkovic says, it's not what the American journalist says they, Mr. Leko, and MPs to the Kukuriku coalition, who are demining. And at the same time those who haven't even seen the board of the minefield markings have, I'd say even the officials' salary. Until last year, Croatia was included in an ATF programme based in Ljubljana, which gave as much money for each euro of collected donations. But this year it will not happen because Croatia no longer has a representative in the fund. And since the summer of the Mines Centre, and now here we have received the director of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, he led and ran several competitions. Since there are 683.4 square kilometres left under mines, this time of financial constraints will require all additional efforts. Therefore, everyone warns of a great danger from mines, all of them even more responsibility and efficiency that were not always at the necessary level when the demining process was ongoing and carried out. As a result, the original deadline until 2009 had to be extended in 10 years, so until 2019. According to all these indicators so far and judging by the chronic lack of money in the state budget, but also judging by what donations they are, because the larger donations they are given for certain, I would not say in vain things, there, for example. I think of donations to political parties from various public companies, public companies, and this is even visible to late reports of certain political parties, given that all citizens, rights and natural persons have certain deadlines when they have to submit this report. So in these huge donations, there could be a huge amount of money for Croatia to really run out of any squares, not under mines, but under mine suspected areas. But what is permitted to the gods is not obvious to the ox. And here I am holding on to Mr. President of the Parliament you see still these extremely important topics not wanting to court any citizen because citizens of Slavonia and Baranja and all other areas of the Republic of Croatia are under mines. They're not being courted because their children are in danger every day. They're in danger every day when they go to their fields, when they go to the woods to work, etc. On the other hand, my proposal and an open appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and since we have heard also announcements, very fast announcements of the rebalancing of the state budget that it is already at this moment and that is neither false demagogy, nor false pathetic nor courtship nor even political speech. Because here, a few days ago, we were asked not to give political speeches in the House, so here from next week we will each take that golden ship or the sun on the window and read songs here as here in the Croatian Assembly and these important topics would not be spoken in political language. So here is my appeal to the Croatian Government but most in the Croatian Parliament we give up the purchase of not aircraft but 1700 new cars, BMWs, Mercedes, Lamborghini, Ferrari, Porsche and these funds immediately in the budget rebalancing we put on this position demining not for the salaries of directors, assistants, secretaries, for watering ficus, for official mobiles, official cars, but for demining. He said that during these years, 600 pyrotechnics were employed on these jobs, that 60 were killed, that they were mostly members of the Croatian Army, members of engineering whose families obviously had no idea that I was not wrongly understood by happiness or that they were wounded or that Croatian defenders were killed because as pyrotechnicists they had no rights. They have extremely small salaries and three people died in my Đakov's demining of the Republic of Croatia. And I know very well what I'm talking about and I don't court these families or these children or my parents. They have extremely small salaries and as many of them say, the square price of costing squares demining is the cost of costing bone grass. So now that we Parliamentarians are now in the spring of the President of the Parliament, let's order a barbecue and go into the weeds, let's remember that, too. And it's not demagogy or pathetic. It's a political speech. The HDSSB Club will support this report and I ask you to even give you more time to answer me and to give me a few tips like this Mr. President-in-Office I ask that you do not bother me in the future but that you too stick to the Rules of Procedure and that which has been published in the National Journal. I support this law and we call on the government to give up the purchase of 1700 cars at a time of serious not global but of Croatian crises and recessions because if we have therefore increased VAT, electricity, gas, heating, VAT on bread and milk and food and living supplies then let us now give up the purchase of 1700 cars and put those funds intended for this purchase into demining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34073	And I thank you and apologize for disturbing the likable exposure. Let's move on. It is the Club of Representatives of the Independent List and the Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34074	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Not that it is when we talk about demining praise and activity but it is clear when it comes to Croatia, it is about the necessary activity. Here on page 23, many have talked about unfair competition between individual demining companies in the Republic of Croatia is mentioned 34 companies that employ a total of 636 pyrotechnicians who have 54 machines and are listed here. So here it's said that these companies are called Kredo, Demin Ka, while Ing, Demining, Mungos and that I'm not counting any further. But let's let it go now. What's more important, anyway, is funding. Jobs demining from 1908 until today are financed from the following sources. So it's a state budget, it's real people and bodies and state administrations, it's loans from the World Bank, and they're clearly donors. And what is also important to point out that from the total establishment of the Croatian Mine Action Centre until 31 December 2011 this is the period to which this report was invested in the demining of $3.7 billion. The state budget of these 3.7 billion kunas participated precisely with 58% means totaling 1.9 billion kuna. I keep saying that Croatia has expenses that no country currently has. We have the costs of forced war, we must take care or the country must take care of the victims, the disabled, provide for those people defenders of pension and Croatia has had an obligation, there is still, to restore the war-torn settlements among other things must take care of demining or better told people to return to their homes and to be able to walk carefreely, work, process fields, fields and so forth. When we talk only about the care of the victims, the disabled, the restoration, the demining I dare say that from the '95s Croatia to here for these purposes has singled out the least funds in the amount of one state budget. So I'm not talking about the war, I'm not talking about the ruined economy or the economy, I'm not talking about the displaced population and stuff. So the war led Croatia to focus its budgets on defence or reconstruction over the last 20 years. That cost simply has no other land at this time. Imagine that new one, for example. invested in a health standard in some school infrastructure in some basic infrastructure and something like that. Let's imagine that the economic base of the Republic of Croatia has been preserved, and we know that more than 1/3 of the country has been occupied. But today we are where we are. What is clear should continue these plans, demining projects. So far, cca or cca 4 billion kuna has been spent on these purposes as of 2011. I may not know what, a dozen, or as Vinkovic says, twenty years will take to secure that much money. 8 billion kuna, about half the highway from Zagreb to Split for demining only. On page 25, we are talking about resources for demining clearly in 2011 and so it is said that from the state budget for this purpose 180.7 million kuna is allocated, then we have a share of IPA 3.3 million kuna, and then we have legal persons investors 90 million kuna, donations of as much as 16 million kuna, from the planned amount of 21.8 million kuna and IPA 2010. What should be mentioned here is the sources of funding, when we talk about donors, so we see that the U.S. donated 10 million kunas, we achieved 6 million kunas, SR Germany 5.2 million kunas, we made 2.3 million kunas, Japan million and a half, but we made 2.1 million kunas, the Vukovar-Srijem County Fund donated a million kunas VIP-net 700 thousand, the Privredna bank Zagreb 700 thousand, some Monaco 550 thousand, I guess the state, I don't know Pliva 500 thousand, the Karlova County 400 thousand, the Croatian American Golf Association 250 thousand was the planned amount, came otherwise 276,000 559 kunas, then there were Plinaro million kunas, the National Journal of a million kuna, INA d.d. 500 thousand kuna and the city of Osijek 500 thousand kuna. So out of the planned 21.8 million kuna, the donors donated 16.9 million kuna to us. Clearly, all the money needs to be withdrawn, but in a way, all of them should be thanked in advance and say one big thank you. Among other things, talk about how many more mine areas are in the 12 counties of Brodo-Posavina, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Karlovac, Licko-Senjska, Osijek-Baranja, Požeko-Slavonska, Sisak-Moslavska, Split-Dalmatia, Sibenik-Kninska, Virovitski-Podravska, Vukovar-Srijemska and Zadar. Everything in everything you say, caps down first of all to people who deal with this demining to put it that way. For me personally, I don't think there's any worse work, which is also the number of people killed than 630, 40 of them as busy as they are at this point talking to themselves. I agree with all those who have just said that bone grass can't be a measure of value for demining one square in the Republic of Croatia. There's still about 700 square miles to demining. That's about a quarter of Istrian County. It's a huge space. I agree with those who used to also say that one minimum demining fee per square should be determined. Protective standards need to be increased. I think the former minister said that somewhere in the seven thousand kunas is net pay, I didn't find that information in this report. It may need to be changed, not that one pyrotechnician has to demine about 800 squares a day, which surely exceeds all known standards. If 60 pyrotechnicians have died since the beginning of the demining to this day, it really needs each and every one of us. And that is why I really agree with those who say that one square price should be set, of which those people who deal with this business should belong to some x units, not that unfair competition among 30 companies in the Republic of Croatia simply destroys the entire activity, so that through this individuals are "playing" and with the very lives of their employees. And what's worse, then maybe that unfair competition leads individuals to death. When we talk about that death clearly in that business, we can't just avoid it, but we have to pay that risk and that risk comes down to the least possible measure. Unfortunately, the risk, when it comes to the job, will not be avoided. And so let's be realistic, as Mr. Vinkovic said, this job will take a long time, perhaps full of those 20 years, not until 2019, and some or some citizens will be killed, and future and pyrotechnics will suffer, until it is done, we will all be at a loss, but surely it is important to save people. Right, and the Pope started riding the bus, we don't need a rolling stock like rich Germany, and the MPs have nothing to understand, but I agree that we should save or add that savings should be extended to everyone, from public companies, cities, municipalities, county, so what do I know to whom everyone doesn't. All in all, it is about a valuable humanitarian demining plan, though for 2011, and it may not be necessary to give us a report for 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34075	Thank you very much. The next club is the HNS club and the respected representative Marijan Skurić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34076	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister of the Interior, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Mines are one of Croatia's chronic problems, we can even say that it is in a certain way both a civilizational and moral defeat of all of us living in the 21st century. Croatia is one of the 80 countries in the world with a mine problem that has ratified the Convention on the Prohibition of Use, Storage and Transport of Mines and Mine Action during the first 1997, the Otaw Convention. Mines in Croatia cause a whole range of economic, environmental and security disorders because large agricultural areas, forests and parts of the river coast are still unreachable today due to minimality or suspicion of their minimality. It is precisely the speed and efficiency of cleaning agricultural areas and national parks that is one of the highest priorities. Today we have a report by the president, the Ministry of the Interior, and this report states that 815 km2 of mine suspected area and 6.9 km2 of areas exclusively polluted with unexploded killings were identified in the Republic of Croatia on 1.1.2011. During 2011, a total area of 27,6km2 was demined in the Republic of Croatia. There are 12 counties of which are the most endangered of Osijek-Baranja, Lika-Senjska and Sisak-Moslavina County. Otherwise, in Croatia about 900,000 inhabitants live surrounded by mines. The donated financial resources for 2011 amounted to 299 million kuna, of which for humanitarian demining operations of 246 million kuna. These funds are primarily secured from the state budget of 62.4%, legal entities 31.3%, donations 5.8% and pre-accession European Union funds 0.5%. There we really need to realize that too much participation from the state budget should have done much more to make not only legal persons who do not have, perhaps it is a duty to do so first of all of Croatia's forests, Croatian roads, also Croatian waters, including others, without talking about donations. Indeed, I have many friends in the world who are very much in need of respect and help without even talking about the pre-accession European Union funds that are now opening up to us and we can make much better use of it. ... the demining in 2011 removed the threat of mine explosives and unexploded killings in the Republic of Croatia from 27.6 km2, from which the search method 8.4 km2, and the demining method 9.2 km2. [[You don't understand.]] In line with the above, the humanitarian demining plan and 2011 in the demining section were exceeded by 9.5%. It is good so that in its case what is planned is carried out, and it is particularly important that all companies dealing with this part can plan in quality within their activities and resources either human, whether financially, whether material-technical. However, when we talk about this part, I would like to mention a few illogicalities on the whole demining issue. For example, people who work in general reconnaissance and write off these surfaces, i.e. mine suspected terrain is converted into safe, employees are the Croatian Mine Action Centre and work as pyrotechnics for which they receive adequate pay and have corresponding benefits, and practically rarely when or never enter mine suspected space. Such a method of working for that job is then not needed by pyrotechnics but by someone else,...this test is about safe surfaces such as paved roads and secured roads. It is questionable what security could be on these surfaces if 636 pyrotechnics, 55 auxiliary workers, 54 machines and 20 dogs in 2011 worked an area of 23 million square meters, and several people for that time wrote down the area of 42 million square meters with a questionable and suspicious method. The rules should therefore be applied in such a way as to enable general reconnaissance and physical entry into those premises to be done properly. Of course, that would also increase the safety of people who would enter those areas. Of course, this will also reduce costs that are not irrelevant. However, when discussing the purpose of demining areas, the following should be pointed out in particular and as defined in this report. In 2011, the most demining forests are 10 square kilometers within which most of the companies owned by the Croatian Forests are the ones. Also, there are still no trees worth 160m euros in the area of the forest, and the tree is failing. Also, as in previous years in 2011 it was continued by demining agricultural land 15.6 kilometers square within which the most oranic. It is also for most of the oranics contained in the 2011 plan that the demining required for the purpose of the initiation of agricultural production. The loss is estimated to be 50m euros per year due to the non-treatment of the agricultural area. In addition, it is the most qualitative country that has not been processed for 20 years and is ideal for organic production. In almost all mine polluted counties in 2011, expansion is a safe space with traffic, and to the most extent road infrastructure whose demining is not only a prerequisite for road editing but also for ensuring the return of the population and revitalisation of the wider area. A great deal of importance in all plans so far is also devoted to demining areas significant for the tourist offer of the Republic of Croatia. Here are these days and finally the demining of the Krka River National Park has been completed. When we record a reduction in the number of tourists, overnight stays and spending, it is also defined which would be more economic growth and revenues to resolve this earlier. Also, the most jobs to achieve the safe and possible return of displaced and exiled inhabitants in 2011 by demining the gardens and the demining of agricultural land essential for the achievement of the safe life of the returnee. In this way, in addition to increased security, an economic precondition was created for the life of the returnees and, of course, people must be first, their destiny. Other operations carried out in view of the purpose of demining land are highlighted in the activities of demining the border belt with the aim of enabling full surveillance and maintenance of the border line, as well as the launch of agricultural production and fire protection in that area. Otherwise, mine suspected space with neighbouring countries is 70 square kilometers, which is defined by an area of 1 km from the border line towards the interior. The Republic of Croatia has such a problem with 4 countries. It is Hungary, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. And for that there are plans and projects to solve this problem for each of these cases. What I would specifically point out is that we are entering the EU, above all, the Schengen border is at our door. We border most of the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is mostly mined. The question is whether, at the end of that border, they will keep those same mines on the border or whether we will really allow the border police to carry out state border controls. We also need to mention what this business of demining is talking about really part of that in 2011 happened three mine incidents and four mine accidents. In mine incidents, a pyrotechnician died, one suffered serious bodily injuries, and two minor bodily injuries. In mine accidents, a civilian suffered severe bodily injuries, and one suffered more easily. There were no injuries in two accidents. In any case, we should mention that from mines to date, in Croatia, 1937 of which 502 people died. Common education of marking and warning is sufficient at least to stop children from getting hurt. The last such injury was reported in 2004. It should also be pointed out in particular that there is another major illogicality in the functioning of authorised legal persons for demining operations. In fact, what is already said when a legal person loses an assessment of their ability to carry out these jobs happens that some companies open up after closing at the same addresses and with the same people, although they remain in debt to suppliers, employees and state. We believe that the amendments to the law, which we have already achieved in certain parts of the law, should be much more favourable to the conditions for the closure of new companies, above all to increase the minimum number of employees of pyrotechnicians, and require a higher level of equipment for the company itself, so that temporary accreditation should be introduced so that, during the duration of accreditation, the company cannot report independently for public competitions but can only work as subcontractors. It should also be amended to carry out a geodetic measurement that is often done several weeks after the surveillance has been carried out. This creates unnecessary cost and puts all the participants at risk of measurement, for example, if growing vegetation can significantly alter the landscape, and it is difficult to determine the boundaries of the site, so it is a miracle that no one has yet suffered. Based on all this, it can be counted that this demining process in Croatia is extremely slow. It is said that we hope that it should not last more than 20 years. It's a disaster. On the other hand, what we also want to point out is that demining is not a cost, it is also an investment. The more that is set aside, the more the surface will be able to be economically exploited. This government makes it clear that demining is taken as an investment in the country's development. I would like to point out that Croatia really has opportunities for an area against mine action, such as humanitarian demining, and it can also be the Croatian export brand that the Republic of Croatia is willing to offer on the international market. Indeed, our companies have highly trained people, they have capacities, they have machines. That's what we need to take advantage of in that part. In line with the strategy, the Croatian Export Initiative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration has been working with the Croatian Mine Action Centre for a number of years, and provides support for export projects in the field of mining. Still, there are difficulties. So far, our demining system has not received any export work even though domestic companies have each tried in their own way to break into a foreign market and some specifics. But without the support of the state it's very difficult. In particular, money guarantees are needed when you go to most of the competition, at least 10 million. If you don't have those guarantees, and no company can get such a guarantee, you can't get a job out there. In that part, a guarantee agency that will monitor our companies on the market should be very much discussed. In any case, by participating in the financing of humanitarian demining, we want to further contribute to the quality and safety of life in Croatia, raise awareness of the public and encourage others to actively engage in solving this problem because our goal is the same. Get rid of mine dangers, thereby further fostering Croatia's development and prosperity. In the context of the National Mine Action Programme defined from 2009 to 2019, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to fully removing mines from the areas for the reconstruction of houses and infrastructures, agricultural areas, meadows and pastures in the next 4 to 5 years, regardless of all the difficulties we face most of which we mention financially. We believe that the deadline of 1 March 2019 must not be exceeded. Following the above-mentioned facts, with a desire to include and respect our proposals from the HNS club, the Report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34077	Thank you, too. We have a single replica reported. Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34078	So here's a distinguished colleague of Mariana's in 2012, the state's mine budget envisions 200 million and 707 thousand kuna, 2013. 183 million 735 thousand kuna. So almost 20% less compared to last year. With you agreeing with me that if we continue, and other MPs have said so, and experts say that if we continue at such a pace, it will take 20 years for Croatia without mines. At the same time as not entering any other political decisions from last year, at the same time today we are witnessing that the Republic of Croatia will spend 265 million kuna for 1742 new cars. Most personal, a little less economic and a little less field. So, at the time of this severe crisis, I do not call it a global crisis but a Croatian crisis, I do not think it is a good message to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that it is not a good message to those parts that are still under mines and that it is not a good message to the Croatian Parliament at the end. And together, let's appeal to the government to give up one of these decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34079	Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished representative Marijan Skurić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34080	Well, first of all, we can really agree that it's in all of us's interest, not that it's for us who run cities and municipalities that we have to be very economical about the resources that we get from our citizens. But what is important is that we also have to respect certain things and certain activities have to work. Also, what we know very well in the budget is that, first of all, no one interferes with our business, and around the expenditure side, everyone would mix up some dice, and basically it's just cosmetics and folklore, and no concrete stuff. But that we need one consensus on this part I agree and especially one example of Germany after World War II on minement they set up 3 things they needed... in the first ten years. It is that the population will not be hungry; the second is also the population has a roof over its head and third that there are really no mines in their territory. They did it. I think we can do it. And especially what opens up to us is what I said we can't and we don't have the resources from the state budget, but through donations, through funds, that's our chance. This government respects this and I think that now that Croatia joins the EU, we can appreciate it very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34081	Thank you, too. We've exhausted a list of representatives' clubs reported for discussion on this subject. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. The first is Honorable Representative Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34082	Mr. President, thank you, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I will immediately join all of my predecessors who have agreed that this report is correct, accurate and that it should be accepted as such, although I will also agree with the reflection of the questionable need for reporting at this time of the 2011 period. We already have 2012 behind us and the problems that occurred in 2011 probably stayed in 2012 and all of what we are talking about today and what we are discussing I am afraid that they will only be aware of whether someone will be in favour of the report or not. Everything else, I don't think there's too much point in being rude, maybe it's a waste of time. The existing system should be seen in the context that it was created as a consequence of the Homeland War and that it is burdened and burdened with all those problems that are under conditions when it was built and created. And I'm sure there are parts that need to be changed. But what everyone has pointed to is, it can be read in a few basic documents, that is, the National Programme adopted in 2009 and the budget. It is evident that what is provided for in the National Programme, i.e. the funds allocated from the budget, that they are not harmonised and that we cannot respect this National Programme. And this is evident from the 2011 Report, where it is foreseen that mine suspected space in the Republic of Croatia is reduced by 86.5 km square, to demining 35.5 km square and to provide for it to be 371 million kuna by the National Programme. However, the reduction in funds was for cca 80 million. So instead of 371, 290, 27 kilometers of square or approximately 20% less than is foreseen by the national programme. Although the demining plan for 2011, despite the fact that the reduction of funds is respected Malta not entirely, and all the jobs I've seen from the reports have even crossed the scope of planned and co-ordination, I don't know about mine dangers, victim care, etc. was at the level of what was planned. We can't get away from the fact that what was planned, what was planned by the national programme, was simply not feasible. What are you doing? Well, the simplest thing was, here I will agree with all my colleagues, in every way possible to work on the resources planned by the national programme, hence the means that they are meant to be, that they are. And I think that then the national programme and the demining plan of the Republic of Croatia would be questioned. What does a lack of resources lead to? It leads to what is most dangerous, to a drastic decline in prices on the market. The drop in prices leads to the destruction of competition, I must say that for some time I had the opportunity to even deal with it, so there are unfair competitions. So I don't know what it's like now, but simply by dropping prices, it's been going to destroy other companies, so in some way creating a monopoly in carrying out mine activity. On the other hand, we talk all the time through all our discussions, not just this debate, but others, we are talking about pre-accession, tomorrow-access funds, so EU structural funds, but I'm not sure that these funds are in this activity and that these funds are somehow being made available to us, which were close to us that we were able to take as much as we could and that we might, I'm not sure about the future that this will be the case. In the activity itself, I think there's one, one problem that's called depravity or non-gaining of these projects. The very depravity of the projects, so you have, I don't know the project hectare or two somewhere where the economic operator must bring all its resources, accommodation of people etc. Instead of rounding up the projects, the company retains 4, 5, 6 months on the project, and so on 2 or 3 more costing its work, which erods the work and state bodies, so it facilitates supervision and a lot of other things that will affect both the quality and the safety and the expensiveness and the cost of the whole process. What is basic and which we cannot allow, by falling prices, by unfair competition comes to the question of the survival of the company, comes into question the existence of pyrotechnicians, their safety, the question of their rights which are defined by a collective agreement and ultimately comes to the question of the very quality of certain humanitarian demining business. So it just can't be, it can't be allowed because employee safety, job quality, existence are all the things that have to be, what I'd say, the priority of all the priorities in mine action. We must not allow workers who have a terrible experience, because they are no longer sure whether they will get paid, whether they will not know in the quarter that 3, 4 months if and the time that these opportunities in which they do not work, so in which collective contracts have guaranteed salaries, whether they are thinking about whether they will have salaries, whether they will be able to pay the directors or not, to simply run away from that job looking for bread elsewhere. And unfortunately, we still have a lot of work to do in demining Croatia. So, I think some of the things that need to be solved here are primarily trying to respect the national programme because it is a great national interest, I agree that perhaps the Croatian Mine Action Centre should be reorganised in view of the bulkiness, let's say it's kind of an administrative part, but first of all I think we should also do some decentralisation. We have here other than CROMAC we have a trust fund, had a testing, development and training centre, we have an administrative board or before advice and today we have a demining office. You don't know who's in charge anymore, who has the rights, whose responsibilities. In my opinion, responsibility, or authority and jurisdiction should move to CROMAC, so to those who create plans and who implement them, but should give them responsibility to do so, for what they do must be held accountable because in this way I fear that he no longer knows who is responsible for what, who listens to whom, who has to look. I don't want to be a philosopher anymore, so I think there's a certain decentralisation to be done in any case, and I think that we're going to improve the demining process because we can't and not say that they're our pyrotechnics, so because of all the experience they have that they've somehow become a brand and that their services, everything they know, all the experience they can offer in other parts of the world where unfortunately there are needs for that, and there are. And that simply in that way, I say trying to help myself, and also our country in that sense, because I say there are really a lot of, say, the Turkish-Syria border, etc. Parts of the world where this job is yet to come to terms, and I think our people who do this can do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34083	Thank you, Your Honor. Two lines have been reported. The first replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34084	Here's an esteemed colleague, so far, according to the information that I have, but also with which the Croatian public is probably also available. Somewhere around 900 square kilometers has so far been revised, which is deminingly in the area of the Republic of Croatia. That's why the average price was reached, and therefore I compared that price to the grass square's bone, and that low English of 3.2 kuna per square metre, which speaks enough of the appreciation of this job about the value that does not take into account the risk of the job, that many of the current employees were members of the Croatian Army, the National Guard Assembly, members of Engineering and simply do not want to predict the fate and way that many companies therefore come to us or to pre-departure deals that here do not last as fast as they last, as well as the bankruptcy itself, regardless of all the laws that have been passed. And in any case, there can be no tax, contribution and everything else that has been related, and I would say about this come normal activity in the Croatian economy, and even if many companies can go bankrupt, that many no longer have the right to benefit from the benefits of the job, and that there is indeed one more appeal to give up the purchase of 142 cars and in these 265 million kunas we invest in demining while we still have live pyrotechnics in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34085	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34086	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Vinkovic, you're right about what you're saying. So I have a personal experience where I know that once the demining price was even three and three and a half kuna. So we're talking about 2011. That speaks enough at all about how, therefore, in which way, I will say what it was because it was my impression, however, I am convinced of it. There are companies and companies, so there are strong companies that have been able to absorb this for months and so on in order to simply solve 10, 15,0 20 other companies and to get a certain monopoly on a market called mine action. I agree with you, and I support your appeal, I don't know through the whole story that the simple money from the car is being transferred because the state and the state's apparatus also have to function, but I am in favour of respecting the national programme, that the money for extinction is being found because it's certain that girls may not be in other places where they shouldn't be. Well, here's what you mentioned about elections for the European Parliament. I agree that these 80 million could be used smarter and more useful and certain that the demining of Croatia and the safety of people involved in this must be of national interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34087	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34088	You mentioned a decrease in prices per square metre and the consequences resulting from both pyrotechnics and the quality of work and ultimately will happen for the development of a complete demining plan and absolutely agree with it. And so I repeat what I said and in the debate on behalf of the club that the state must definitely take a more active position, it must be more actively involved in this and there is space with existing means or distribution within the spending of existing funds. The part that my colleague Holly mentioned about the administrative apparatus, the accompanying services, all of it. I think the fact that we're being more rational at the end of the day is that in your debate, you mentioned all those institutions dealing with it. I think there's a real space for rationalization and I think that the state has to take a more active role in regulating that market, that is to define some minimum price, minimum price and minimum quality and normal and scope of work, because this is how it really works, unfair competition, collapses, destroys with the goal of destroying other companies being exhausted, the pyrotechnicians doing this job are being put into a situation that they have to work because there are no jobs. They have to do that job and do it really for miserable wages. This violates their rights or pays them overtime, does not carry out the mass of these obligations. In the end, even mentioning these obligations by these employers to the state remained unfulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34089	And a reply to the line, the esteemed representative, Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34090	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Col. Novak, so I agree that maybe we could introduce some restrictions, some parameters that will conditionally determine below which level cannot be reduced to the price of so-called square meter in demining depending on the area, depending on the business, so depending on how much that price really must be because it is not the same everywhere, of course. And that this fall in price leads to a threat to existence, leading to the fact that the rights prescribed by the collective agreement, that people are simply forced to work in a way that does not exist anywhere, thus jeopardising their own safety, and thus jeopardising their own safety, but by threatening it, I will not say that this is done in order to say dirt but not to work systematically and cannot be done systematically at that price, that is the fact. And we come up with that quality of processing that humanitarian demining that way at that price just isn't what it's supposed to be. And that is why there is a threat to all those who are moving in the area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34091	New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34092	Dear fellow Milas needs to repeat some things because this is really one subject that is important and that is very painful. You don't need to be quiet about that. Let's say in which profession of 630 pyrotechnics is killed by 60, 10%. And imagine the pyrotechnicians don't have an unfettered job experience. Well, it's an injustice to heaven, it's a terrible injustice that needs to be corrected and we can't keep our mouth shut. It's a highly underrated job, a significant job. It seems to me like someone wants to keep those mines in that country. I don't know if they're getting ready for some war or something. How do you explain that? How do you explain your relationship with pyrotechnics? In order to disagree with colleagues who used to talk, you can't, I rarely talk about demagogy, we're just being said to be demagogues, they don't have 1742 cars to do with this. Those driving cars especially the mayors know how much it costs to keep cars, the park of the state of Croatia, the rolling stock has become more time-consuming, when I talk to people who care about it than the new cars cost. This average per car of 152 thousand kuna so that I wouldn't bring the opposite of these two things because one has nothing to do with the other, but it's absolutely certain that we need to make sure that those people who care about it propose the law and about the benefits of a work experience and that this injustice needs to be corrected against the pyrotechnicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34093	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34094	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vuksic, I agree with you. I'm absolutely in favour of the fact that pyrotechnicians need and must have an unfettered job experience, but the state needs to stand behind it. And I think here in such reports on such specific topics about sensitive areas I am sorry that today is not the director of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. ... that it should be Mr. Deputy Minister of the Interior, but I think someone should be from that living story, so from the part that can tell us clearly what problems in the operational sense they're dealing with, what they're dealing with every day, so maybe we get a little more sensitive to show, maybe it's demagogy, but I don't think that empathy towards these people who, despite these prices, are still doing this job that they're doing and creating a safer environment for us to get rid of mines as soon as possible. But I think that together we all must not happen that for 2012 too, we have a report or debate on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34095	Thank you very much. We've finished the replica and the answers to the replica. New debate and respected representative Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34096	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Since this report refers to the period during which I led the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then I had an obligation to report and say a few words. First of all, I think it's good and it's important that we discuss all the reports that we have to discuss. So if there is an obligation to submit a report on the work of any institution of the ministry body to the Croatian Parliament, then the Croatian Parliament must discuss and decide. This is always important regardless of what year we are talking about because, based on the reports and data we receive through the reports, we can build plans for the future. This is a very sensitive question. The review of funds per year, therefore, since the independence of the Republic of Croatia spent in the demining process shows first and foremost a very clear one important thing, that we have done this great job so far, and so far it has not done a small job, mostly on our own, therefore mainly through state budget funds. The donations were such at different times, as you can see in 2011 small and it is quite certain that Croatia's entry into the EU will probably fall short, but we will turn to the opportunities that EU membership gives us, but I will also discuss this later. What is clear from this report is also when we talk about the state budget funds that show that we have, as you can see in 2009, allocated considerable resources from the budget for this important demining process. In fact, in 2009, as shown in the table and most up to that period. And if you compare to the best years when we had GDP growth 5.6% of the funds that were then allocated from the state budget for this job were smaller in some periods and significantly smaller. So even in the future until this process is over, we will have to rely mainly on ourselves, but in the future we will be able to count with EU funds. As far as I know in the negotiations and for the budget for the years that are before us, 2014, 2015 is a possibility and I believe that it will be at the very moment of membership and greater that we do not target certain funds in the demining process. But I think this report can encourage and I certainly dare say pride when you look at these past 22 years of war when we consider when the war is over, when we consider when the peaceful reintegration is over, so 15th of January '98. and when it is a large area that has been polluted by mines, finally or only in the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, and when this process could really have started, then we can say that we can't or I would say we don't have to be unsatisfactory. When we become a member of the EU, we will also be the only Member State to face this big and so difficult problem, which is of course particularly important for the development of the economy because none of the investors will, of course, come to an area where there is a possibility of mine loss, but above all, for the most important job that the state has to do, which is to return to all its homes, so to return and exiles and refugees. Here I would warn of another fact that is also related to this demining process, but also all other processes that were based on Chapter 23 that we were the only country that negotiated under the burden of the legacy of war, so the return of exiled, refugees, but also the construction of houses, but certainly here is the problem of demining, and that despite everything, we opened and closed Chapter 23. So we were in this business as successful as possible, that we could allocate more resources, of course, to make the results better. And let me say something else about pyrotechnics in the end, they're often mentioned. What's most important, what the state has to do and what we have to do through all the following programs and plans is that no one gets hurt, so no pyrotechnicians but any of the population. This is a special task of the state, especially for the Ministry of the Interior, but also for some others and for the fact that the number of victims, especially the number of victims, has decreased, especially children. Pyrotechnics, I agree with all the colleagues who have given them respect and recognition, every day at 1:00 p.m., about that I've worked in a special way with them as a member of the government, every day at 1:00 p.m., so the pyrotechnicians say, you can't get on the phone, you can get none of them on the phone. Why, because at 13 o'clock when they stop working, they all call their homes and tell their families they're alive. And all these terribly difficult circumstances under which they work and in which they work, of course, should be considered. Even though we in governments before this met with protests, pyrotechnicians should not protest and the government's tasks, each government and every state is to ensure stability, regular wages, work because unfortunately the pyrotechnicians have been through the past, and unfortunately it will probably be now, faced with one absurdity to seek a job, and on the other hand we have such an untamed area. So they especially respect and gratitude and in this debate, especially when it comes to the fact that among pyrotechnicians, most of the people who defended the country are Croatian defenders. And I want the report that we will consider, for example, for 2015 to be a report in which we will be able to conclude that we have stepped in with considerable steps forward because we have also started to take advantage of the opportunities that therefore give us membership as a country, the 28th member of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-15-0.u34097	Thank you, too. That's why we've exhausted the list of people reported for discussion on this subject. I'm closing the debate. I'm giving up until 12 hours when we're going to continue to work on supplementing the agenda and deciding on the materials done, the acts this week. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 12:00. Report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and the financial resources spent for 2011. The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, the following conclusion shall be given to the vote of the Commission on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and the financial resources spent for 2011. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find it unanimous, with 102 votes for the proposed conclusion. That's what we ended up voting on the points of the agenda.
