ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54646	My colleagues, I wish you a good day. We're moving on with the session. We'll discuss... - Report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2012; Report by the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families pursuant to Article 8. Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the War Veterans Committee. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, the opening statement will explain the report by Deputy Minister Vesna Nadj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54647	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. You will be presented with a report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2012. The 2012 report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund contains, apart from the Fund’s IT prospectus for 2012 and the most important decisions of the Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund as well as the instructions of the Management Board of the Erste Invest d.o.o. on how to vote in the main assemblies of the company in which the Fund owns the shares. The report also notes the state of the assets of the Croatian Defence Fund and the management of the Fund. A total of 9 meetings of the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund were held in 2012. The most important decisions of the Management Board of the Fund for 2012 are: an information prospectus of the Croatian Defence Fund for 2011, a proposal set out to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Association Fund Zdravko Lončar, Ivan Krucec, Ivan Posilović and Petar Banić. Decision was taken to invest one-third of the Croatian Defence Fund for 2011 into the Scholarship Fund, the report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families was accepted. An established proposal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the appointment of members of the Management Board of Croatian Defence Foundations from the Homeland War and members of their families Marija Dujic, Željko Marijaović, Tom Kacinari and Tihomir Trescec. Report on the 2011 grant Fund's work was adopted, the 2011 Report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund was accepted. Member of the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund Josip Klemm is proposed for appointment to the Supervisory Board of Vesnika d.d. which proposal was adopted at the Society’s General Assembly, Vjesnik d.d. 3 September 2012. The decision was made to refer to the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a request to transfer to the Croatian Defence Fund, in the case of the regulatory regulation of any future privatisations of public enterprises owned or partly owned by the Republic of Croatia, without the payment of shares of those companies. Members of the Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund gave instructions for voting to the Management Company of the HB Erste Invest d.o.o. at the main assemblies of the society in which the Croatian Defence Fund is the owner of the shares. An integral part of the Business Report of the Croatian Defence Fund is the informative prospectus of the 2012 Croatian Defence Fund, which was developed by the Management Company of the Erste Invest d.o.o. The information prospectus shows information about the Croatian Defence Fund, the portfolio of the Croatian Defence Fund, the management of the Croatian Defence Fund and how to calculate the management costs and the investment strategy. According to the independent auditor's report, the financial report truly and fairly demonstrates the position of the Croatian Defence Fund on 31 December 2012 and its financial results and cash flow for the year which then ended up in accordance with international standards of financial reporting. Total assets of the Fund on the day of the report 31. 12. In 2012, it was a billion 235 million 47 thousand 435.92 kuna. As indicated by the Fund's information prospectus, the Croatian Defence Fund paid two-thirds of the 2011 profits, totalling 88 million 709 thousand 495 kuna. Out of the total amount allocated, 44 million 354 thousand 747 kuna has been allocated in dividends for the owners of the Fund's shares and 44 million 354 thousand 747 kuna has been allocated to the Croatian Defence Scholarship Fund from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Therefore, although a third of the net profit was lower than the previous report period of the Croatian Defence Fund has fulfilled one of its basic legal obligations to get a third of the net from investment for development, social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders and members of their families. In total, 9 thousand 556 scholarships were paid to children killed, imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, children of the Homeland War and children of volunteers from the Homeland War which is still the largest and total amount of scholarships paid in the Republic of Croatia by one legal person. In 2012, the Croatian Defence Fund did not finance the Fund from a third of the net profit from the National War Foundation and members of their families, but nevertheless became very successful in 2012 and approved 4825 financial assistance to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families totalling 11 million 505 thousand 229.68 kuna from the funds left over by the Croatian Defence Fund from previous years, as well as from interest on the funds. The Foundation was paid in 2013 from a third net profit of 2 million kuna. The members of the Fund's Management Board warned on a number of occasions that the Fund's assets are being reduced and that if it continues to be reduced at this pace, the Fund will no longer be able to implement its basic legal purpose of investing in development and social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders and members of their families. The Fund’s Management Board launched an initiative to amend and supplement the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families in order to prevent the erosion of the Fund’s assets and the Fund’s Management Board from giving greater powers in the proactive management of the Fund’s assets. The Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families for 2014 was also included in the plan for the normative activities of the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54648	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? War Veterans Committee Chairman Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54649	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Council of War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 10th session held on 12 June 2013 a report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2012 in line with the provisions of Article 8. Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families submitted by the Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families with an act of 29 April 2013. The Committee considered that report as a parent body, in accordance with the provisions of Article 81. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening presentation of the proposing representatives, she presented basic data on the operations of the fund in the past year. The assets of the fund on 31 December 2012 amounted to a billion 235 million 47 thousand 435 kuna, which is less than in 2011 for 300 million kuna. The profit from the distribution business is 128 million kuna or 5 million kuna less than in 2011. In 2012, 166 thousand 0.12 shares were purchased, down from the year 2011 from 105 thousand shares. During last year, 2/3 of profits from 2011 or 88 million 709 thousand 495 kuna were paid and half of the amounts were paid to the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and half of the owners of the share. The Fund's Management Board launched an initiative to amend the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families with the aim of further fulfilling the Fund's mission to provide social and humanitarian assistance to defenders and to new regulatory regulation of the election of members of the Fund's Board of Directors. From the discussion of the board members, it is up to the opinion that the fund is one of the best projects implemented by itself by defenders who, by their successful actions, through the grant and assistance of a difficult material situation, show solidarity among the defence population. As the Fund's assets are reduced year by year, it is necessary to initiate and insist on the introduction of new shares, i.e. participation in the Fund because it is the only way to ensure the future of the Fund, and thus to continue the work of the Croatian Defence Foundation from the Homeland War and members of their families and the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. The finance ministry should transfer a 7% HPB stock package to the Fund as soon as possible as possible, as well as Croatia's insurance. It must not be allowed to repeat the fate of the Homeland Fund. In the event of a possible amendment to the Fund Act, a broad discussion with the interested public and the profession should be conducted, and there should certainly be a guarantee that amendments will ensure the successful continuation of the work of the Fund. After the debate was held, the Committee decided unanimously, with 9 votes in favour, to propose to the Croatian Parliament the conclusion that a report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54650	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54651	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Here's Mr. Djakic, in front of the board, mentioned two words about the Fund. I will remind you that for nine years now, the Fund has been working, and I will agree with what has been stated in the Committee's report that the Fund is definitely one of the best projects that has happened, thanks primarily to the tenacity, the lobbying of the defenders themselves, but undisputed and all the club representatives who have supported this project and who, through these nine years, thanks to both the good business and the sensitivity of those who led the defender's portfolio, have received results that are above all else, are simply not negligible. So the Fund allows Croatian defenders and members of their families everything they should consume to have one continuity in life through education and through everything daily life requires and seeks. So, at least what's called a basic existence. Through the 2012 Fund's report, we learn about the value of business, distribution, number of shares, payments. So, data that is of particular importance to the defenders and members of their families. As already said on 31 December 2012, the total assets amounted to over 300 million less than the previous year or exactly a billion and 235 million and 47 thousand kuna. So the year before was a billion and 537 million and 780 thousand kuna, which means a reduction already by about 511 million compared to 2010. The total amount intended for the disbursement of the dividend in 2012 is around 42 million and 900000, the current year before was set for around 44 million and 350000 kuna. The report says that during 2011, the fund made a payment of 191 million 691 thousand and 519 kuna, again down from 2000 by 240 million 661 thousand and 770 kuna. So this amounts to these dry figures to see, however, that the fund is being reduced year by year, that the dividend from which the fund is being financed is exactly what it produced. Therefore, it is the Fund for the scholarship of children of Croatian defenders and themselves defenders and trustees who have the task of caring for the socially vulnerable part of the population of Croatian defenders as part of the work itself, i.e. the very existence of these two institutions comes into question. So it became a little bit of a concern. I therefore believe that it is necessary to make efforts to pay dividends, i.e. the scholarship of children, but also the defenders themselves, in order not to be threatened. What are we talking about? There is a lot of talk coming soon and there is already an invitation to tender on privatisation, capitalisation or to call it what we want for two public companies, so Croatia insurance and Post office banks. And in one part of the report, we saw that the ministry and the board of directors had led the initiative to have defenders in that part, so since it is public enterprises that have the right to share as well as in the 7% so far. I have to be honest with you, I'd like a little bit of clarification on what this initiative means. In particular, if they started any lobbying, if through the club representatives, if there's something in the government that's said. Because as far as I can tell from the media, the finance minister doesn't think about it, but he's decadently saying that it won't be anything since some of the things from the fund's past business weren't what he thought it was supposed to be. Since today we have the Management Board of the Fund as we have, i.e. as it is written here, appointed by me without any legal regulations, do we have any doubt about this board of directors that they too would do some actions that would not be appropriate, or that would bring harm to the Croatian Defence Fund at the end of the day to the defenders themselves. So I would ask the Vice-President, if possible, to give me a concrete answer, which means an initiative related to participation, i.e. the participation of the fund in privatisation, the capitalisation of the sale of Croatian insurance or postal bank. It is the members of the Board of Directors of the Fund where the defence population has its four members who warn that the assets of the fund are reduced and in due course if this trend continues, and it is what it is, meaning the trend is, the fund will not be able to implement its primary purpose of investment in the development of social, humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders, i.e. their families. Given that the government is the founder of the fund, I think it is the key one here, that is, that is, its role in preventing further endangerment of the fund's business, i.e. to launch activities and actions to support the fund. The support can only be given by transferring to the fund the funds they say are not, so businesses are not put on the list of companies in which defenders should be participated, but no one is defending the government nor vetoing it. During 2012, the fund received dividends from HT in two wars totalling 127 million kuna. From Privredna banka Zagreb i.e. 348,000, from Ericson Nikola Tesla in the amount of millions and 370000, and from Kutjev in the amount of 969000 kuna. It is evident that the largest amount comes from the Croatian Telecom, but it is evident that the total amount of dividend application for 2011 is lower by 2 million and 400,000 kuna compared to 2010. So again, I quote the figures that show the trend, the overall trend in the reduction in resources, the reduction in dividends, and therefore the reduction in funding of Croatian defenders' children, which I think is absolutely great value, which, unfortunately, I think the media and we are paying very little attention here. Because that solidarity in the population of Croatian defenders where they could, as well as others, escape from the fund, to call it that, at a time when HT was worth what it was worth, when INA was what it was, and simply to devastate that it was gone today. So, I think about 40% of Croatian defenders and I think there's a lot of people here who are still holding their stakes out of that part that's called solidarity to those who are harder than us or those who have more. As a member of the War Veterans Committee, together with his colleagues Djakic and Ivić, we have warned and asked that the shares after privatisation of Croatia's insurance, i.e. HPB, are put into the fund and thus continue to be able to identify projects that I say will contribute to a better status, or a better everyday life for those who are farthest and who, during one period of life, when it was difficult for us all to understand, may have suffered a little more severe trauma than others in this country. Unfortunately, as far as I can tell, the government didn't support this proposal, but I think there's still time for that, and from this place I'm appealing to the government and to all of us here to do what we do even under some other regulations, but it's only important that two institutions survive. So, that the Fund for the Scholarship or the Foundation of Croatian Defences for which I will point out that it is being run today and that it works in full terms, so it does its job with salary and with all the contributions that go where they should go, the children of the dead Croatian defenders are working. He's led by Boris Herman, who's the child of a dead defender, and on the whole team, they're really by the name and last name of all the children of the people who gave their lives to this country. And I think it's also one of the crucial ideas, that is, of the crucial things that happened in the foundation. It is the ones whose fathers and parents gave the most for this country today that help their fellow fighters in what are called daily problems in life, existence, etc. The Decision of the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Scholarship Fund of 20 May 2013 awarded 8 689 scholarships for the school academic year '12/'13. 5 361 students, 3 311 students and 17 fees for part of the costs of postgraduate studies at higher schools. So it's just for one academic year. Children of Croatian defenders every year apply to a competition in November which, unfortunately, is traditionally late, I am talking about scholarships, after several months. So last year they were supposed to start new applications, so we're talking because the November one has already come close, and the students haven't received any payments for the previous year. It is regardless of the transfer of power and the takeover simply inadmissible, it cannot happen. And I'm glad that practice didn't continue this year. In the global business of the HDZ Club fund, it also assesses positive as indicated in the independent auditor's report that the financial report truthfully shows cash flows and monetary results. The HDZ Representatives Club will support the Business Report, primarily for good purposes through the operations of the Fund of Good Projects, which are of exceptional importance for the defence population and their family members, with one more indication to the Government as founder that they must think as much about the future of the Fund and ensure its continuity in terms of action and business so as not to endanger what is most valuable, therefore, the education of children of Croatian defenders, defenders and themselves and to help in these difficult times through the foundation of those who are truly most difficult. So, once again, we will support the report with a request to try to explain to us what this initiative was going to be before the board of directors and the Ministry of Privatisation and to appeal to the Government and to all of us to consider the fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54652	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54653	Dear Vice-President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the opening part and my colleague before me talked a lot about numbers so there's no point in repeating that part, I think it would be really unnecessary. But I'm still going to touch some of the pieces simply because it's because of the debate itself. The fund has assets in equivalent to something over a billion kuna and the property is exclusively owned by shares, which the colleague mentioned, HT, Ericsson, Nikola Tesla, Kutjevo do not know PBZ etc. At the moment of the fund's establishment, the right to share has achieved something if I'm not mistaken for over 500 thousand defenders. Meanwhile, about 300 thousand defenders sold their stakes of approximately 60%. Urubo, I think this information was presented by Mr. Joseph Glavas, president of the Ersta Investment Society Administration, and then there's no point in doubting the credibility of that. This sale of these shares honestly in my opinion is primarily a reflection of the crisis in the country, people are simply forced to sell these shares to overcome some crisis periods in their lives, and unfortunately there is a difficult way to influence, motivate them, forbid them from achieving what they have the right to do. But since the value of the share is constantly losing or falling every year, I think it's part of a reflection of what we say about mistrust or fear that someday the stakes will become worthless or that they will be significant, they will never be worth it, I believe it's clear to everyone, but that they will drastically lose their value, so just take rational behavior now while something is worth eating is what will be later. However, as a result of all that I was talking about, there is no wonder that the statement just before mentioned Mr. Joseph Glavas, president of the ERSTE-Invest Society Administration, which says that there is a real possibility that the fund could be closed. I don't know how realistic that is, is it a real danger? Is this danger realistically assessed or is it just such a warning, the first signal? However, I think that such a statement already has a slight impact on those who have a share in making decisions and let’s get rid of their own, conditionalally speaking, to resolve their stakes or sell them to get some of that kind of money. The Privatisation Act predicted that 7% of the shares of state-owned enterprises would be transferred to the ownership of this fund, so according to this, we heard from all the speakers so far, a certain initiative was launched to meet this part by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It must not be forgotten that in the meantime, the government has passed a Law on State Property Management which practically put the Privatisation Act off the table and in this new law there is no question about it. I don't know if anyone reacted, at least I didn't notice, but when the debate on the Law on State Property Management was made, I personally missed it, but as much as I noticed others didn't react in a way that puts the Privatisation Act out of force until then, practically simply became a void or no alternative is foreseen for those 7% shares. But then it happened that in the media, Minister Linic is extremely resolutely aware that he only knows it, is that if I make more noise then I am more management, I think this is the attitude that I absolutely do not support, but extremely resolutely he said I do not give shares of the HPB and Croatia insurance to the Defence Fund. At the same time, the government of the Republic of Croatia is going to privatise, sell all state-owned companies as if it were their grandfathers. I think it's absurd for me not to say it even rudely. I don't give anything, and on the other hand, I sell out what's the state I want. Although Minister Linic defended it with the thesis, I do not want to repeat the scenario that happened with INA, and it is my personal opinion, regardless of what this party will react, that it is right and that the move that happened with INA was bad. I know that the advocates of this process will say that at that point because of the demand for MOL, the stock had good that was one of the arguments that was possible and that was going through the media if we were to be quite honest, I don't say on whose side but that argument is being passed through the media, that a good price has been achieved, that if I'm not mistaken then there was a price that MOL offered, so it's an opportunity to receive certain funds. However, it is necessary to be honest and to say that I am speaking exclusively of my opinion, that in this way MOL was given too much power and that in some way MOL was able to blackmail both the Government and the INA Administration and who not all of them, what did this result in giving up the refinement of the refinery in Sisak, and of course I am most interested in it because I am from Sisak, whether it endangers the jobs of those same defenders who work in the refinery in Sisak, I cannot argue that it was the opposite that it would not have happened. But I think this has further potentiated this problem or made some further arguments to the other side. Let's get back to Minister Linic and his statement on handing over those shares to fund management, he said he would rather give money to defenders than the right to manage shares. Money is something that he would once pay off and paroleally remove responsibility from himself, and perhaps even wash his own conscience. I think that, the stocks are something, the money is that you give one time, the shares are something that means that you can go through some, over some longer period, it's expected, because anyone who enters the stock business expects that, over some longer period, they will exercise the right to dividend and eventually expect that the price of these shares will rise on the market. But, however, he pretty much as I already said resolutely takes a stand that's mine, I don't give and you take pictures not to say it. When he called on history let's say about the shares of the INA, then he called for bad experience. A colleague, Milas, spoke on behalf of the club earlier and then made an excellent observation that the Management Fund is the president of the Management Fund, his colleague in the government of Defence Minister Predrag Matic. And he says, he doesn't trust the Fund's administration. The two of them are sitting in the same government. I guess he knows what he's saying, I guess he knows why he doesn't trust him. I mean, who's that now, two people sitting in the same government and he says I don't trust the trust fund, I don't want it to happen again. What message is that? I, the two of us sitting in the same government, I don't trust him and I won't let him handle it. Or maybe something else. And then Minister Matic also called and asked his present counterpart Djakic here as representative of one of the defence associations, asked him on his behalf and on behalf of all defenders not to protect the defence interests of the defender anymore. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That he no longer protects the interests of the defense attorney. But he's also asked himself not to sell the demagogue anymore, I'm going to read this, he's quoting that he wouldn't say something wrong: "... and he doesn't mention the children of the dead defenders and the dead defenders themselves.". She asked him in an open letter to Mrs. Rosalia Bartolić, president of one of the widows' associations. In my opinion, the lady rightly reacted and warned him that it had been enough years since the war, that a significant, most of the children had completed their education, not all of them, but a number of which by some logic should mean that the amount needed for scholarships should still be slightly smaller. In this story, I will look back at my colleague, Milas, or at his discussion when he said that the problem is not just a scholarship but if I listened well, or heard that the bigger problem is that when those children finish school, give people a job. And that, that's my bigger problem. Now this story has included Minister Mrsic, who made it possible for those children, including those children, not only them but also those children that in the country their fathers created with their lives, that in that same state they slaved for 1600 kuna, because in my opinion it is nothing but slavery. And frankly, they are allowed, because we have entered the European Union into a free labour market, they are allowed out of that country which is so created and go to look for a way for our existence, a way to its existence across Europe. No one can forbid them. All in all when this, this whole story we're going to put on one spot then I have a dilemma, it's not a suggestion and it's not my suggestion. I have a suggestion whether this fund really is, is sustainable in this way. Since we have a clear view that the Government does not want, this government does not want to function the same way towards the Fund, i.e. to transfer the shares to which it would, which would mean the survival of the Fund. On the other hand, a significant part of over 60%, about 60% of the defenders sold their shares, and then we have this fact, which is stated by the lady from the widows' association about reducing the number of children they demand, or that they are exercising the right under that Law to grant. Is maybe a really better solution, it's just not my suggestion, it's a matter of thinking, is maybe a better solution to go looking for another way out? To make the state pay for the stakes of those who have, to take over these shares, to sell them, to do, to sell them all out in this market anyway. Whether the Ministry of Defence should take the responsibility for all children and, or all those who have the right, who are still entitled to these provisions might not know it in the future, perhaps in this way avoid some scenarios of the type Fimi Media, HGK, Croatian Road or I don't know last night some new case came up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54654	Now we'll hear the replicas. A colleague named Tink Miles.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54655	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Novak, you mentioned the sale of shares of INA, so you're right, the simple reason was that there were a large number of defenders who applied for the redemption of their shares. You know that there was no cash in the Fund at the time and there was a question of HT or INA, that with HT in the meantime, let's say that it was sold and that what happened to the INA was probably the same story again. But INA at the time got the price if I wasn't wrong, since I wasn't involved in it, about 3,000 kunas to fall very quickly after that to 900 or 1000 kuna. I'm asking a question why I didn't buy INA shares if they fell three times after that. That's one thing and the other, you're right, the stakes are... about 60% of the defenders, but the Fund has been going on for nine years and in these years of crisis if there are 40% of the defenders who still hold their stakes because of what I said, so because of all those others, they realize that the price of that share falls and falls every day. This means what has proved over time to be one of the most stable financial funds in this country, and it means that these people are very aware of the situation and everything that is happening in the Fund. And that is exactly what it is, that if it pleases it, that is, if they do have mercy and give some participation to the defenders in these parts that will soon come to Croatia and the Post Bank, that it will not be left to the street, to the wind, or to anything else but to take very careful care of it as it has been for all these nine years. And if it wasn't for that, and the management company wasn't doing well, so I think it would have been a long time ago, or at least now it's been replaced, but it's still doing its job that's worked before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54656	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54657	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Milas, I'll start at the end. You know that the find of the State Audit for many, many companies where affairs later surfaced, that the State's Attorney's Office did not respond to many newspaper signs where trade unions or journalists or I don't know who warned about irregularities that it turned out to be all right. I don't want to say that there's something wrong with this Fund, and I'm absolutely building on it, but I'm leaving it to those who are dealing with it, and that's their job. Let him earn his salary. As for the one where you mentioned the transfer of shares of HPB and Croatia insurance, I only commented on Minister Linic's debate. I didn't say that since that's the government's position, I didn't say that it shouldn't, but since that's the government's view to decide what to do in exchange for what exists, something must. It's absolutely, I mean you can't say this right now there's nothing left. Some solution must be proposed, and we can't, I mean, in my debate I even gave something like a topic, but in a decision, some surplus must be made by the government, or the ministry. You mentioned the shares of INA, I mentioned the problem maybe, not perhaps, I'm subjective because I'm from Sisak. I'm certainly subjective because the refinery in Sisak is, I'm certainly subjective and because there's a lot of defenders amongst the refinery workers, and now everyone feels some fear of what's going to happen. I didn't say it would surely solve this problem, that is, if the problems of modernization and the future of INA were gone, there would be no refineries in Sisak. But I set thee up, and if it hadn't been for that, it might have been easier today to keep those jobs. I didn't categorically claim that he would or wouldn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54658	Thank you. Tomislav Ivić, Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54659	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Novak, a lot of the things you said in your debate would now be polymized. I'll focus on two. You're saying that you and INA were bad. He was not bad, he was the only possible need for the fund to have liquidity at all, so that it could pay off Croatian defenders. You yourself said it was sold to Croatian defenders or that it was redeemed by Croatian defenders 60% of the stake. To pay off those Croatian defenders, if the shares of INA were not sold and the funds did not come to the fund's expense. How would these Croatian defenders pay off? Well, that's the meaning of the fund, that transactions or so on the market provide liquidity to the fund so that it can meet its role at all. So it's not about any bad business, it's about one necessity that was what it was at the time, and it's not about to tie the work of the Fund's Management Board and the Fund to what happened after or after, or it's going to happen in the INA. With this Croatian Defence Fund, there is absolutely nothing. You ask the same question that the Fund is sustainable this way. It's very sustainable. So all these reports that we've been listening to both this year and the previous years are mostly more than positive and show that key thing, that the Fund is quite a bit of a saying, I would have done everything that's basically what it's founded for. Every year the profits are paid in order to the Croatian defenders, we heard that both the scholarship fund and the Foundation are very successful. The second question is whether the Fund will survive if it does not have new shares in it. This is a key issue, and this should, of course, put this pressure on the government to continue in the privatisation process of state-owned companies that are privatising a certain process into the property of the Croatian Defence Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54660	Thank you. Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54661	Thank you very much. I'll start over again. Well, colleague Ivić, in the end, you just said what I said. I did not say whether he is sustainable or unsustainable but with such a way that there simply must be an alternative, some other solution proposed given the categorical position of Minister Linic "I do not give". Okay, if I don't, but give me another solution. It can't be, we're just all aware that if another solution isn't offered, then it's really questionable if the Fund can still function. It's my subjective opinion, I have the right to it as you do to your own. As for the necessity of selling INA, I still think there was a different possibility. To be honest...... No, I don't agree with that. [[You can't hear it.]] These are already not to say unserious intrusions, but good. You say it was necessary. So this government says the necessity of selling state property is to function further. Debts must come back. Do I agree with that, too? I remember your club of representatives was explicitly against the sale of everything and everything, against the monetization of Croatian roads. Now you're finally saying what was necessary. So when it comes to us, there's one way, then there's one measure, and when it comes to others, then there's another criterion. Maybe it was, look at each other and it's Croatian. Both apply to Croatian defenders. Perhaps it was a solution for the ministry or the government to find a loan by overcoming a certain period, and perhaps that was the solution. Now I'm pummeling the idea, but look, you can't say the necessity was in our time to sell, and now they're doing the crime they're selling. Well, you can't talk like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54662	The replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54663	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Novak, while there is INA and MOL and the Croatian Defence Fund, it is likely that from time to time when it is appropriate to return to the issue of selling shares of INA and, of course, I don't mean anything by it when I say that always after the battle, it is easy to be a general and to say what should have been said. And it was supposed to, of course, react. First of all, it is important to take into account the fact that the fund, as colleagues said before, had to secure liquidity. So none of the Croatian defenders who came to redeem their stakes, so first of all, the Management Society couldn't say, and neither the board of directors, look, we don't have the money, we don't have it because we don't have it. Therefore, liquidity must be provided under the conditions of course when INA shares were offered for 2800 kuna. Who would please explain to one Croatian defender and to anyone in the Croatian public that the value of the fund after this procedure has fallen, for example, for a billion kuna. Who would explain where it went? People would ask where one billion kuna is, and who's responsible for it. Therefore, these were the reasons why the Management Board’s proposal to the Management Board decided to step up the sale. As for the considerations that have also appeared in public since some proceedings are taking place I once again here in front of you all tell you and that's the only truth. No one has ever pressed any member of the Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund to make this decision or that decision. It was a decision in line with the events to say so on the market in accordance with the obligation of the Fund's Management Board to ensure the liquidity and sustainability of the fund. And considering that, for example, she could be asked how you said a loan from the government would be absolutely illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54664	The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54665	Dear Representative Kosor, last night I didn't even know what the name of the show was on TV where the guest Mijat Stanic, president of the cestar union, and then by explaining all the events that were happening there, then at one point he told Mr. Calmet, look, he never ordered. He kindly warned that some solution might be quality. Everyone knew that what the recommendation was finely said, politely, extremely culturally, that the recommendation that implies execution, that the possible avoidance of that application could have consequences for who it refers to. But speaking of which, I didn't mention at any point that he was putting pressure on anyone. But this just reminded me of last night's show. I don't know, you said it didn't exist. There's no legal possibility. I, as I recall, and even for these governments, have been made any financial overrides, some exhibitions, so I don't know, I'm not an economist, so I can't argue as much as possible and what has a legal basis. But I'm saying that he should have, he has an interest, there's an interest in protection primarily because I think that means keeping jobs. As far as I'm concerned, I'm running out of time. There'll be more chances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54666	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54667	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Novak, it's clear you don't handle matter and you don't even know the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund or events. The sale of 7% of the INA shares that were necessary to cover 45% of the stakes offered for the ransom provided funds to make Croatian defenders pay. That's one thing. That 7% of sales did not contribute to MOL achieving 51% of ownership. He only achieved 42% of his ownership. That's basically what you forgot to say, and 25% plus one gold share in the decision-making sold the former SDP government, so MOL based and positioned itself in the INA. In the following sequence, I must tell you that neither the letter-writing lady representing the interests of the widow has forgotten that in 2012 9556 scholarships to children of Croatian defenders and Croatian defenders. You need to know that you don't... only children, as well as Croatian defenders who perform retraining, schooling, who have the conditions to obtain a scholarship, graduate and postgraduate studies that attend. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are also allowed to be educated to be employed and competitive in the labour market. That's all the things you forget. You forget that today the fund still operates in quality and provides resources insufficiently as it should and only in one segment is removed from the law, which is that the distribution of dividends must also be for the trust, and not only for the Defence Fund. In two years, there is one legal deviation that needs to be regulated in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54668	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54669	Thank you very much. I haven't forgotten any of that and you're a little bit reshaping my words but, well, it doesn't matter I don't want to talk about it. I'll only react to the first part you mentioned to INA. I'm afraid you don't know whose contribution is greater whether you on this side or them on the other side when it comes to INA. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54670	And Joseph Bencic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54671	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague of Novak's several times you let's say you referred to the work of Minister Linic. Here is only briefly on how Minister Linic works best on the polls, he is certainly the best-rated minister in the government. But that's the way it is. I wanted to look back on the part where you say that by buying shares people expect profits. Yeah, that's their intention, but it's not necessary for you to make a profit by buying shares. It's a risky job and the stock market can never say with certainty that you'll make a profit. Is this going to go to that 7% of Croatia and the H.P.B.? Is that how it's gonna be after a year or two? That doesn't have any guarantees. There's no guarantee that after a year, two of them will be sold that 7% as sold to these INAs. It's all business risks. And a little bit more if you would allow me to comment I wouldn't have fatally tied this Fund to the scholarship of children of Croatian defenders and defenders to the business of the fund. I'm not in the mood for the fund to be abolished, but that doesn't mean that if tomorrow the fund and this 40% get out of the fund that no one else is gonna grant those people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54672	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54673	Well, as far as this scholarship is concerned, it wasn't even mentioned that I would tie it up so I don't know if I was being vague, but I don't know what you're saying right now because I suggested if it came to this to look for another solution and I even suggested it. So, I think we either don't understand each other or I don't know. As for the stock, whoever buys the shares, whoever gets into the stock business, probably doesn't expect to lose on them. He must be willing to risk it, but surely he didn't get into it in order to lose. So, I think we're talking about not giving them shares because they might lose value and they might lose. So be careful, please! Well, come on, then we'll see. And not like this because you could drop the stock price we're not going to give you. Unserious.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54674	On behalf of the club of independent representative Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54675	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, it's a long way from 2005, so the year we founded the Croatian Defence Fund. Before that, we changed, or passed a better law. Why do I say change? Because the role of Croatian defenders is highlighted here, which is true by the end of 2003, on several occasions with one template, I would like to ask the government to establish a Croatian Defence Fund, namely to adopt the law first of all. That didn't happen, and here we are, since I was a Croatian Defence Minister at the time, I'm very proud of that period, we've come to work. It was a big job to do and a law that could have been sustainable, which could have been on real, not on glass feet, but then finally when we passed the law, something else important had to be done, and that was the political decision made by the Government in 2005 that the best shares, therefore the most valuable shares, 7% of the shares of the INA and 7% of the shares of HT really were entered into the Croatian Defence Fund. From good intentions to the realization and functioning of the fund, as you can see, it's been a very long time. However, something else had to be done parallelly, which is a job that many before us, then the secretary of state was Mr. Ivić, so many before us tried and returned to the drawers. Therefore, it was necessary to build a register of Croatian defenders. Finally, remove all information from the drawers and archives on who received the status of Croatian defenders, i.e. Croatian defenders, from which period at the Ministry of Interior and Ministry of Defence. By the way, we had different forecasts before the publication of the Croatian Defence Register, many of our concerns did not come true, above all, that the publication of the register would lead to a major rush to the application of defenders for fake disability, for false status, etc. As you can see, it did not happen fortunately, which shows when you look at the entry of Croatian defenders through time every year, in '91, '92.itd. in the register and this will be the topic that we will discuss in the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, then it is seen that the figure that we have come to is really real. So, the fund has done or rather carried out its task. It is one of the most important and perhaps one of the best jobs that has been done in this system, care for Croatian defenders and members of their families. He was certainly one of the most powerful funds, his assets and today very relevant more than a billion kunas, and I must say once again in this debate, although this is a full public road highlighted, but many times when to whom it was necessary for political purposes then and disputed, the Company for the Management of Assets was chosen in the contest, it was the best society and I think that society also justified trust. In addition to everything else, I use this word wisely, regulated, or where profit is better directed. So one third as you can see is directed to the foundation means to support the defenders, the children of the defenders, the families of the defenders, but one part of the education of the children of Croatian defenders and the defenders themselves, so children who have every right to expect the support of the state, the support of all citizens and citizens, the support of all institutions. But here I remind you equally of the fact that at the time of 2005 we also passed the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders, that in the law we had provided for something which, in my deep opinion and today, is extremely important and today I think as well that the state has the right to do so, that we had the right to do so, so we installed when it comes to schooling children an important provision on enrolment of an additional quota for children of Croatian defenders, particularly volunteers, killed defenders, children with disabilities for enrolment in universities, to enrol in universities. I remind you that it was a provision that allowed children of Croatian defenders who deserved special support of the state not only to go to colleges to remember them so they would say that I would now study or study at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb and pray for my place, but also those children had to cross the threshold to say so, so they had to show knowledge and education but the state only provided them through the law so-called. a special quota which would, of course, ensure their place. However, many of those who destroyed that provision found themselves. A lot of groups also have to say, unfortunately, some trade unions that have submitted a request for the assessment of constitutionality and provisions and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia have brought down that provision in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, thus prohibiting children from enrolling in universities under that special quota. And today I'm sorry about that because I think every country and every country is, look at the U.S. and their laws that are being implemented through their Ministry of Veterans. They have a view that I think is particularly important in the countries that have defended themselves, which have been exposed to such bloody aggression, that the state can always decide, and then the Croatian Parliament can decide that the parliament of the state can especially support one group of people who it considers to be particularly sensitive on the one hand, and on the other hand, particularly exposed and certainly especially creditworthy. Of course, we do not question these provisions and decisions today, but it is a long time ago. It is therefore important that there is a system of funding and that there is a clear system in determining support for children of Croatian defenders through scholarships. It's a good thing that practice is continued, here's 9556 scholarships is really one relevant data. These are not small scholarships, they are really respectable scholarships and should do everything that if nothing else continues this system. It will be difficult to expect in view of the crisis, given the problems when one day the Croatian Defence Fund would disappear, if one day those funds disappeared, and then the benefits from which these grants are then allocated so that another system could be implemented given the fact that money is difficult but also the fact that it is slowly but surely passing the time that is normal and on the other hand it is not forgotten. So forgetting is one of the biggest enemies of both this fund and the grant fund and the trust fund. I therefore support the idea of the Fund's Management Board that in each case, I support the proposal of the Management Board of the Fund that in each subsequent privatisation process, the law is respected and that the percentage provided for in the Privatisation Act is set out in the Croatian Defence Fund above all in order to continue this important work on the scholarship of children of dead Croatian defenders, children of volunteers, children of disabled persons and Croatian defenders themselves. And finally, since there are indications that we have also read in this report that we have heard about the amendments to the law today. I have to say, personally, I am against it because we've had a lot of conversations when the Fund Act was being passed. So, the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund is well balanced, it has primarily enabled the stability of the Fund so far, I fear that some additional amendments and additions to the Fund Act can destabilise the building, the house of that fund from the time it was built. Because the fact that the Fund exists from 2005 to today, I think it shows in itself that the law from which the Fund originates is, of course, well-conceived. Therefore, in conclusion, I can only support the work of the Administrative Fund with one note, since Mr Borkovic, as a member of the Board of Directors, has issued an opinion and was against this Report, I propose that Mrs Nadj, until the end of the debate, report which is the reason, which is why Mr Branko Borkovic, one of the defence commanders of Vukovar, presented us as his remarks and for which he did not support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54676	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the replicas. Cresimir Bubalo, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54677	Thank you very much. My colleague Kosor said today the Fund's assets are worth a billion and 235 million. Today was 31.12., today is 29.10.2013. and only when we break out the price of HT shares that is... These 5732, worth a billion and 138 million but the price of HT shares has fallen significantly and the value of the Fund is now lower than that of the 31.12. for 204 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is a noble idea, but it would also be noble and prudent that people who manage the fund manage in a different and more meaningful way, that the property is not reduced and that it is managed in a different way of caring.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54678	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54679	Well, there's always a colleague named Bubalo when it comes to the report, so I'm talking about the report and the data we're reading from the report. And it's always like that, of course. Because we as representatives unfortunately don't have complete and detailed data, it would be good, so let's make it your initiative that on the day that we discuss any report in particular to reports that touch financial reports that then we have both full and accurate information on how much in this case the assets are. We can also probably find out from the deputy lady today. So on today, what's the Fund's assets? But I spoke in principle, first of all, of good intentions, of good law and finally of good results of the functioning of the Croatian Defence Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54680	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54681	Thank you. So you touched in one, in the initial part of your debate on the provision of positive discrimination against children of Croatian defenders who, even in the previous Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, were able to enroll them in colleges. We remember that fall when it worked out what kind of circus was created in colleges and how, for example, 300 regular students were enrolled at some colleges, 300 or 400 were enrolled in this Law. I think that one such positive discrimination that was actually negative for the competitiveness of Croatian society, which was deeply unfair as it was done by this Law really thank God that the Constitutional Court had abolished that provision at the time because in this way it would have been discrimination among Croatian students, among Croatian citizens, young Croatian citizens, not that it was unfair, not that it was fair, not that it had anything to do with the Homeland War, but that it would have been the generator of new injustices in Croatian society over the years. It was particularly harmful in my opinion. And I really thank God once again that such a form of dispositive discrimination that you were then promoting the constitutional court has been abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54682	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54683	I'm a very unpleasant fellow that you try to make children of Croatian defenders especially those who have lost their parents a circus. I'm very surprised by the fact that you obviously didn't listen well to me at the time or even now, I'm precise, the Law didn't allow the children of the deceased defenders, for example, children who had lost their fathers, children who had lost both parents to enroll themselves by coming off the road, without any knowledge, those children had to be equally admitted, those children had to show the knowledge just for them the Law provided, you didn't listen to me, an additional quota. So the children of Croatian defenders who lost their parents did not throw out other children but were given a new chance. But I'll tell you that it was, and so it was given them some kind of advantage over others, and I would still be there for it today. Especially because of those kids who don't know their fathers at all. The one whose country had to side with one or both parents, that was a message. We state side by side of our parents. And we help kids get school. I'm sorry you didn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54684	Maria Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54685	Dear colleagues, you spoke, and here I continue on this previous replica and discussion of direct enrolment in colleges and in high school for children of defenders who cross the classed threshold that was lifted by the Constitutional Court. I also agree with that Constitutional Court decision, yes, it was indeed an unfair decision because of that provision it was discriminatory to other children. We had examples of high schools where children who had all fives and the maximum number of points failed to enroll. Why was that discriminatory? The entry threshold is we'd say in mathematics necessary, but not sufficient condition. The thresholds are really set as a minimum criterion. Crossing the threshold is not a sufficient guarantee of excellence for enrollment in a specific educational programme at any level, and excellence is one of the foundations on which all education systems are based or should be based. However, I answered primarily to say something else because it is very often repeated here in discussions at the Croatian Parliament. Although education and the implementation of education policy is one of the measures or one of the tools to achieve better social cohesion and equality of social inequality, it is no doubt wrong to implement it through educational policy measures. What am I saying? So I agree that the children of HRVI, the children of defenders should be helped because they really did not have the same start with other children, but help should go through social policy measures. Like we have free textbooks, transportation, special scholarships through this or that fund. Doing so through educational policy measures that have a completely different principle, and this is the principle of excellence is wrong. By applying social policy measures, we strengthen their start to achieve this necessary excellence which can be the only criterion in education. When we think about things that way, we will actually give the right way to value and set up education, but also real help and then equality in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54686	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54687	Thank you, dear colleague Lugaric. In fact, I don't think that's social policy when we're talking about enrolling the children of the defense attorneys who lost their fathers. I think it is a strategic policy, that for a country that has been exposed to aggression such as Croatia's strategic question that children of those most responsible for freedom, there we certainly agree, get a chance, get a chance and get equal opportunities because a child growing up without parents, a child growing up with a father in a wheelchair is not the same. It was initially damaged, it simply had to be given an equal opportunity to school and one day equal opportunity to work. However, all of you who agree with that decision where this possibility of enrolling Croatian defenders is probably forgotten, and perhaps you didn't know that we, however, were working on this issue and we reached an agreement here with the Zagreb University, signed, actually made it possible, in the same way, only in another way. So the university, I thank both today and Mr. Whites and Mr. Shimonović and many who participated in this at the time, for understanding what was really the point and what was actually a fundamental question. So, according to that logic, if it were against the constitution, that is, exactly as a colleague of the complete circus has said, then many other provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences could be questioned, e.g. Croatian defenders have the advantage of hiring in state-owned enterprises. This, however, is not respected by state-owned companies, but it is the same provision in a law that could very much be challenged from the point of view of some other people. Also on incentives for employment, cooperative establishment, etc. This is the country's answer to those most responsible for defence and freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54688	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54689	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleagues Kosor, I am aware that this decision that has been abolished by the Constitutional Court has been initiated on our left even though we have not made a move towards that law that also discriminates in Croatia today, which is the Law on the Rights of Children of Victims of World War II and Pores. He's still in effect today. The Law of Colleges also includes Roma children. It does not discriminate, it does not say that they are in some status better than children of Croatian defenders, especially the dead Croatian defenders. It doesn't bother anyone today. We didn't take any steps to make it possible for anyone who was killed in any war or on any basis to sign up. And today in law, the new law on higher education states that Roma children can be enrolled in colleges under special conditions and that they are so satisfied as a national minority. Equally the victims of World War II and their children. They're still in the law today. Who does that bother, and why does it bother the children of Croatian defenders to be highly educated? It's a clear message that they're trying to achieve. They don't need colleges, they're children of those right-wings, those chauvinists who shouldn't be in office in the Republic of Croatia. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54690	Coli Djakic, so far, has been a peaceful and good debate and should not be discussed in this way. Please. ... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, nice. Replication response, colleague Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54691	Okay, I really agree, we need to calm down the debate. The debate on Croatian defenders should always be primarily dignified and of course we sometimes step out of the box defending our thesis and idea. So I and this replica of my colleague Djakic understand in that sense. Yes, it's true, and I'm very proud that we made this possible, and I was the president of the Committee, for example. for Roma, we have made it possible not only for you to mention but we have made it possible for all Roma children who want to continue their education in high school, i.e. in colleges to receive a scholarship from the state and that is good because the minority should always be encouraged, any minority. But I think the children of the deceased defenders and children of 100% disabled persons are also minorities in this regard and should be further protected. However, I think it is also important for a young country like Croatia and there is nothing wrong with it, while trying to get those children of Croatian defenders to actually get a chance here one day to be representatives in the Croatian Parliament, to be members of the government, to lead the government. It is the same thing that I think is good, and the debate about who was on which side I think they are not good because Croatian defenders belong to all of us and to the left and to the right and to the top and to the bottom. Croatian defenders are the best of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54692	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54693	Mrs. Kosor, you said the management company justified trust and it worked wisely. In my opinion, society didn't work well when it sold those 7% shares to the INA and it didn't work wisely. We've already talked about the economic aspect of it, but I'm threatening to think of it. And it should not have been, Croatian defenders should not have sold 7% of the shares of the INA. What is in the spiritual sense of the cathedral, in economic terms, is the INA and it is the guarantee of the Defence Fund. It was sold for steak, they killed a cow. As guilty as the defenders themselves, as much as it is the management society, as they've been suggested. Well, that doesn't work for me. He's a good man, but his wife's no good, so he's trying to get him to do something stupid. Don't mention that nonsense to me anymore! It's a bad decision and it shouldn't have happened. But I'm more tangled by this other thing, enrolling Mrs. Kosor in college. I'm a professor downstairs, and I was directly involved in all this. You've come up with it in your cabinet, and somehow you've been experiencing it, and you've been experiencing it, and you've had no insight into the situation. The one whose father died, whose mother died, doesn't need any reception. We receive them above the quota without any reception, so let them learn until they come. Okay. And everyone else has to go to a normal qualification, and if they've been through this, that decision has been very bad, and it hurt the most to the Croatian defenders because in the JNA hospital, a former military hospital, hundreds of people have won the status of defenders, former south officers and those chats from the offices. And the very fact that they are former members of the Yugoslav Navy hospital then the Croatian Navy and now their children are going by privilege, and these people let's say the good Croats who fought etc. Their children have to. That was a bad decision. She shouldn't have brought that. It's my opinion. And you're wrong. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54694	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54695	I think, Mr. Marasovic, that you really need to concentrate very much when you're talking and that you really have to watch what you're saying, because when you say no more, don't mention that nonsense, then of course you've offended many. But since you say it every day, it didn't actually hit me at all. But please, please be careful what you say. Because I don't talk nonsense. I was talking about the Property Management Society, how it was elected, how it was done, and the final decision was made by the Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund. However, any further explanation does not benefit you because you either do not understand or do not want to understand. Both are harmful in this kind of debate. And when you said that I mentioned the children of the dead Croatian defenders only in the cabinet, because I didn't know anything about it. If you and I were to compete now to mention each of the 50 names of the children of Croatian defenders who lost their lives, I don't know how to spend their lives. I can count 50 and at least 10 times as many as I know them personally and I've been trying to help them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54696	You can't get a replica since these were replicas to Mrs. Kosor's exposure. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Zeljko Sabo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54697	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, Honored MPs and MPs. I will return to the 2012 Agenda Point Report, which we heard here in the opening presentation, was passed by the Fund Management Board, unanimously accepted. The Committee on War Veterans, whose Vice-President I am, as well as a member of the Fund's Management Board, has passed, and I am aware of all decisions where we also unanimously adopted this report. Therefore, on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to say that the SDP Club will also support this 2012 Report. In the context of all these discussions that were conducted here and in some certain way returning a little to the past I would say about this fund. The fact that apart from everything you've said that's good for this fund, for its establishment, for all beauty, for goodness, for humanity, for social, that this is one development fund anyway. Because investing in young people, investing in scholarships, in their education is a development project and surely to praise a valuable project which is the year when the fund was established that this is something that I would say most important not only for Croatian defenders, for children, but for the Croatian state. I will tell you that I get the circumstances when I became mayor of the city of Vukovar and everyone when we talk about the problems of young people, about the youth of Croatia we come into this situation that we need to do something, but we don't know what to do. I am here in some way as mayor just made a decision that all the students from the city of Vukovar, that in 2010 they are scholarshipd from the budget of the city of Vukovar and through the "Solidarity for Vukovar" action where we have allowed all the students of the city of Vukovar to receive scholarships and even in two counties free transportation of Vukovar-Srijem and Osijek-Baranja County. And that's how we've been doing it for the last three years. This year it's 411 students and we'll see what we can do for this year and next year. But I am convinced that just through the development of our Croatian state and this fund that does what it does, others will do exactly for young people to give them the opportunity for education. Perhaps some who watch us on television and, as the Honorable citizen of the city of Vukovar has said, it is difficult to explain where a billion kunas from some age of funds have disappeared. We discussed and saw the danger of reducing the value of the fund, the financial amount on the Management Board of the Fund. And certainly that 60% of the defence population who are rightly unable to challenge them to sell their shares, that there has been a reduction in the fund's financial amount and that, in all our operations, we come to have a less financial opportunity, in principle, less scholarships and all that, by giving funds, help for defenders. And then we agreed to try and as members of the Fund's Management Board to act towards defense associations and defenders that those who really don't need to sell those shares not to be sold out of this very human value and the contribution of the Fund itself. So I appeal again from this pay phone to all those defenders, those 40%, who have not yet sold their stakes in this fund that unless they need to not sell them because they are thus helping in solidarity with their comrades, their friends and the children of the defenders in terms of all these activities and the purpose of this fund. Therefore, I thank all those who have participated in this most honest work so far, because speaking of privatisations and returning to the past the traces of privatisation of all some societies or those shares that have been placed into the fund are clear clues and transparently debated and they are the result of just the work of the fund. Therefore, all praise to those who will continue to strive to enlarge this fund, and as long as it has the need to survive on it. How it's going to charge, about that one. We'll have time for those discussions, too. Therefore, once again, the SDP will support this Fund report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54698	Thank you. Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54699	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Sabo's, you've made it very clear that you don't need to sell the shares unless it's necessary. I believe that even these 60% who sold their stakes did not sell out of whims or because they had a fantastic opportunity to live but that they were simply for existential reasons in need of selling. But I ask you nicely as a member of those who can decide and who can influence that you too try to influence Mr. Linic's statement that not, I will not give you the shares to save these 40% by coming to mind and saying that, from Croatia it will be 7%, there will be 7% of the Post Office Bank and so will stabilise the fund, so you will continue to have a scholarship to children, so you will also have to maintain the rentability and functionality of the fund, so you will have defenders still have your security through this fund, this noble relationship which, according to the children of Croatian defenders and the defenders themselves in education and then in aid from the Foundation of Croatian defenders. Be constructive in your efforts along with the deputy minister and in your desire to achieve what was and targeted to be in that fund from all state-owned companies that privatise 7% of the shares.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54700	Replication response, Zeljko Sabo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54701	Mr. President-in-Office of the Committee, whose member I am by my vote and debates on the committee, I have accepted what you are saying that initiative to fill the financial opportunities of the fund itself. When we talk about an individual, about a minister, let me admit and let's all admit that at some level someone who deals with shares, who deals with finance, and let the debate be held to see what it is best to do that today or tomorrow we don't discuss the possibility of maybe some mistakes we've made in the past. So I'm always a supporter, and as a man, that in the past and in our mistakes we learn not to make these mistakes today. Therefore, I cannot act on anyone to whom I give the right to be more professional within any of the shares, shares, finances, but I certainly supported with my vote that the fund as a fund has its own sources of income and that it survives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54702	And Tomislav Ivić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54703	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Sabo, I agree with you, you really spoke affirmatively about the Croatian Defence Fund as each of us should talk about the fund because it is a truly valuable project which is here in these 9, 10 years of its existence that fully justifys the purpose. However, it is not enough to appeal to Croatian defenders not to sell shares. And those who did this, 60% of them, did not do it out of whim, but out of necessity. And therefore the only solution for the future of the fund is the introduction of new assets that will give once again one significant financial strength and power to the Croatian Defence Fund and, of course, the Croatian Defence Fund. Because without a strong fund, of course, the scholarship fund and the Croatian Defence Fund will be shut down. So the only solution in the short and long term is the introduction of new assets through the further privatisation process in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54704	The answer to the replica Željko Sabo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54705	Both Mr. Djakic and you mentioned these 60% defenders or shareholders who sold the shares. I don't want to think about it absolutely, nor can we think about a large number of why someone did it, which is why they sold it, and it's right and 40% that are still there whether it's an emergency or a stock drop or anything else that does it or doesn't do it. So absolutely everything you're saying and everything we've been saying I support as both vice-president of the board and as a parliamentary representative that certainly this fund is the most honest thing that has its mark of privatization of certain societies because these 7% stakes are the absolute trail that are invested in the development of youth, the future of the Croatian state unlike those other percentages that may in some way be invested in consumption or in the Croatian public in some way can neither follow nor know, we forgot. But I'm sure you'll be convinced that we have an associate here with you and me and Mr. Djakic about this fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54706	On behalf of the HNS representative's club, counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54707	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Deputy. In front of us is a report from a fund that may be one of the noblest and most correct decisions made in the last twenty years because the decision to set up this fund aimed at helping the families of Croatian defenders, the scholarship of their children and themselves, is simply the moral obligation of society to which these same people and their families have made the greatest sacrifice and in fact directly created the assumptions that today we have a free and democratic country that strives to be better, and then I guess this debate about this desire to be better and to be more noble and decent should be devoid of political passions, reduced to rasio, because it has laid the foundation of responsibility. This fund has very clearly laid down rules of play or function. It also provides transparency and supervision, the main role of the board of directors in which of the 7 members of 4 are representatives of Croatian defenders, which is absolutely correct. Therefore, no one can dispute that any other position in that committee has a dominant role to play than the defenders to whom the fund is intended. The principles of fund management are logically conservative because it would be simply unacceptable for this fund to function as some other fund with a much higher risk, although it may be a much greater possibility in individual speculative episodes and gains, but imagine the case of fiasco if the fund were led differently from the principles and rules set out. In the HNS, we believe that this is a proper choice of how to manage and operate the fund itself, thus also in these turbulent times, and even in the times that have initiated and sold the shares of a particular part of the defence population, thus reducing the total value and funds in these turbulent economic times, the fund has remained on its feet and thus has been given the opportunity to fulfil its task. The figures are commendable to us at the HNS, so I would dare say even impressive because more than 9,000 scholarships over one year are in any case a figure that deserves respect. We owe it as a society of ladies and gentlemen to these young people the possibility of schooling because many of them remained deprived of what is fundamental, and this is for full parental care and have a very difficult youth compared to their peers. We owe it to those who gave the most that we could for what we enjoy today. The Fund has also paid several thousand support to defenders who are in a difficult life situation, and it is in any case commendable because given the circumstances and times in which we live, and also given the vulnerability sometimes the handicap as a consequence of the war horrors that Croatian defenders have, we are obliged to take care not only of their children but also of those defenders who are in a difficult situation in life. What is mentioned during the debate is a visible trend in the reduction of the value of the fund. We at the HNS are advocates of a professional debate opening this topic, perhaps on the route of the Fund Management Board and the Assembly Board of Defence to see but so seriously as they say in the people on the tananas, rationally which opportunities objectively exist to stabilise at one level the value of the fund that would guarantee those contributions necessary to fulfil their tasks. Giving some ad hoc suggestions now falls more into the hypothetical domain and does not reflect enough serious access. We are assessing this report with a correct, transparent enough and we hope that in an equally responsible and quality manner, it will continue to be managed by this fund. We hope that according to the positive criteria, benefiti will be allocated from this fund, that his work will not be irregular and it would be really ugly when something so positive, so moral and rare in Croatian politics, unfortunately, it would be very ugly if by any wrong move this institution of the Croatian Defence Fund questioned. The Croatian People's Party Club will, of course, support this report with the hope that the following report, which we will read about the operation of this Fund, will be equally positive at the very least. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54708	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, counterpart Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54709	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. I would certainly welcome, on behalf of the HDZB Club, the fact that this Fund exists and the fact that this Fund remains for the past 10 years and the fact that through this Fund is to a certain extent, not to the full extent or extent to which Croatian defenders deserve it but to some extent many Croatian defenders who have not had the opportunity to participate in the conversion and privatisation because they participated in the defence of Croatia at least minimally or partially through these shares, the ownership stakes in the Fund at least partially compensated it to one small extent. On the other hand, and what is of course through the activities of the Fund are scholarshipd children of Croatian defenders. And that is and we all do, I think we all agree and agree for years that this Fund is indeed one of the most successful projects in the Croatian state. It's particularly valuable that, in fact, as one state project exists over the years. Because we remember, for example, what happened to those PIFs, how one failed the project on the other hand, unfairly, the project an unfair project, so I'd kind of dare say a thieving project. While here, however, the way it is structured thanks to and obviously to a good society in which, a successful society with which management is entrusted, this Fund survives this year. Of course, what is happening these years, so in these 5 years as far as the Republic of Croatia is in recession and how much the stock market has practically failed in Croatia, as much as the Zagreb Stock Exchange is practically before closing, where the Varazdin Stock Exchange is today. Thus, in some ways, the Fund actually follows the fate of the total market in securities because it rests, because it rests on it, or rests on the shares that have been transferred to it. That's certainly one aspect of this problem. And given the trends that follow this, nothing positive will happen in the years to come. We all know that 93% or 92% of the shares of the Croatian Defence Fund are shares of HT. We all know that these HT shares today are over 100% underrated simply because of the market situation in securities. If the market for securities was today different shares of HT would be worth twice as much, then the share and volume of the Fund would actually be practically double that. And we would have the answer immediately solved. Therefore, we would no longer have to discuss whether the Fund should be recapitalised or not. That's one aspect of the problem. Another aspect of the problem that is present here is that it was actually allowed to total this Fund only rests on the portfolio of HT shares, that's another aspect of the problem. Then we return to the question why it is allowed, is it an unfortunate sale of 7% of the shares of the INA that were in the Fund's budget, but that's also history, a history that unfortunately cannot be returned. But we can remind ourselves that in those times, the management of the company has made a recommendation to the Management Board not to sell the shares of the INA because it is an economically harmful decision for the Fund. The Fund's management did not then follow the recommendations of those who run the company but made a political decision on the sale of those shares, which is now the case and is an inapplicable variable. What we need, and what we do not agree with those who say that we only need to polarise or discuss and that the administration of society will specifically decide on this, I think that we should define at least or somewhere define the political will that should be, if we agree that this Fund is necessary, useful and valuable, I think that, regardless of which political party we belong, we should send about one message whether we want this Fund to remain. And if we want what we suggest we do. Because there is also a state of value, securities markets from the trend of Croatian defenders' exits from the Fund, and I would point out that nobody really has the right to call anyone and any Croatian defenders whether they stayed in the Fund or not. These are the people who have received a certain share of the number of days spent in the Homeland War by the foundation of their defense staff, according to who is left, who is not. Today, whether a state or someone in front of a ruling majority who manages the Croatian state this failedly calls one of the Croatian defenders on whether or not he sold the shares in the fund, so that the children of Croatian defenders can or can't scholarship, I think it is extremely hypocritical to speak in that way at all, or to call Croatian defenders. So we can talk and agree on whether we are to keep the Croatian Defence Fund or not. If we are to remain predominant and visible from trends in the economy that the situation in the securities market will certainly not change over the next few years, then it can only be further difficult to make conditions more difficult. On the other hand, the trend is that 10 to 15% of the fund's owners are coming out of the fund annually, since the fund can still endure for the longest three or four years at the top of its head, and it will no longer be able to fulfill this role it plays today. I think it would be a good idea to try and talk about it if we had a wish, and I think we've all shown that this fund remains, which are possible ways of solving the rest of that fund. One of the options proposed is to be sure to further pump certain amounts of funds into the fund. This is an obvious possibility and it is certain that if it comes to what we disagree with, which is the sale of shares of Croatian insurance or HPB when the state sells, for example, 90 and some percent of the HPB shares, I think the state would definitely hold and sell 92, and not 99% of the HPB shares, to transfer 7% to the fund. I don't think that would put the Croatian state on its knees, and the fund would certainly help. Another example, here are some other ideas, perhaps to make a change to certain shares of the portfolio that I'm actually saying again makes 92% of the shares of HT with the portfolio of some other shares or some other securities that the state today has in its portfolio. So to actually make the portfolio of the fund the way the portfolios are normally all closed and open and I don't know what funds, which is that it rests on at least two, three or four legs, and not like today's Croatian Defence Fund stands on one leg called HT. Of course, such standing on one leg is a very unstable stand and so stands the fund today. It is therefore one of the ideas, therefore only a proposal, why not replace several hundred million kunas of HT shares for several hundred million kuna values of some other stakes, regardless of which share they were. It can be some securities, various options are possible. I don't think we should make a decision about it, but maybe give ideas to those who need to make such decisions. Several valuable courts were also held here in the debate. So value courts certainly rest and not just on where we come from, how we've been educated. They rest on what kind of environment we've been in, how we've been going through life, where we used to belong to a group of people, maybe that's why we're building our own valuable vessels. I mean, when I talk about it being a circus, not that people are a circus, but that circus is what makes someone a form of discrimination law, then we're not talking about people being a circus. People are human and human beings should be respected, accepted, no matter what category they belong to. But politics often makes circuses with people. I personally, and I'm saying this myself now, I believe in that society that puts all people in an equal position and gives them an equal opportunity. An opportunity, that's basic. It's not the point of society, it's what we had until the '90s, a society that's privileged by certain groups. Whether we need a society that favours certain groups, privileges or needs a society that opens up an equal opportunity for all who live and work in it. I believe in a society that gives opportunity to everyone, not a society that favours someone. And when it comes to education, that's especially education. The greatest privilege anyone needs is his personal competence. Every single one of them needs to be shown here. Where support is to be provided, financial support should be provided to certain categories of society that are weaker, which are more vulnerable, which are not in the social aspect cannot come to the stand, so that they are behind the start, whether they were members of an ethnic minority, whether they were children of the deceased defenders, whether they were some kind of birth group. So these people need to get started so they can run an equal race in education. And when that training race starts, then there can be no others who are going to be moving the signal forward, and it is quite another matter when it comes to employment and, above all, about public sector employment, in public enterprises. We can then make it clear that, as some have said, that, we have won elections, we take political responsibility and we employ members of our party at the executive posts. Or we can say that we have taken over power and we believe that these countries should be managed by those who have defended this country and that their children should have opportunities to work and in the public sector have priority over those who did not defend that state and those who did not defend that country's children. We can also say that. So we can either have our own attitude about it or we can say that everyone stands on the same line and let only competence be what people are going to be hired for or not to be employed for. So let me get this straight. The HDSSB club in any case supports the work and business of the Croatian Defence Fund, but we also agree with all predecessors that the time is coming when something will have to be done about the fund's operations. You can't wait a few years for a trust standing on one leg to finally crash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54710	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. Tomisla Ivić called first, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54711	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Djurovic, you said in your statement that the Fund Management Society, so Erste Invest, was negatively manifested to the Fund Management Board when it comes to the sale of shares in the Croatian Defence Fund. It's about the INA shares. It's just not true. The truth is completely different. The Management Board of the Fund has taken a decision on the sale of INA shares on a proposal from the Management Society. Therefore, Ersta Investment Management Company was the one that proposed to the Fund Management Board to decide on the sale of shares in the fund, i.e. the sale of shares of INA in order to obtain a source of funding for the payment of Croatian defenders. That's the only reason it went into stock sale and we've already said that. So no political decision has been made. After all, the political decision could not even be made if we respect the fact that you have probably noticed in this report that the majority of the Board of Directors of the Fund are Croatian defenders, of the 7 members of the Management Board of the Fund 4 are Croatian defenders. And they're the majority who make the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54712	Thank you, too. The answer of my colleague Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54713	Yeah, well, here's my colleague Ivić you were practically an actor of these events, then you said what's true. And I said what I heard. So, if I'm misheard of all ok. There's no problem. On the other hand, when it comes to the decisions of the Governing Council or the Management Board of the Fund, you know it reminds me, without offense, of a parallel that a gentleman today at a series of trials held in Croatia says that he did not decide anything because the presidency decided. Well, the presidency says they're mature, grown-up people. They voted together. I didn't make them do anything. Yeah? These are serious people, so even when you talk about this, let's not fool ourselves about who's running and running it before and leading today's crucial role in the Governing Council, or the Fund's Management Board. Of course, it is a resolute minister who is president and who, of course, chooses practically those people who will participate in the work of the Governing Council of the Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54714	Thank you. Next replica of Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54715	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleague Djurovic. I think we need to come out of this debate with some deal about what really happened and what wasn't. What you said earlier is very dangerous, perhaps you're not aware. You say that contrary to the proposal of the Management Society, that is, as you said to the Management Board of the Management Board of the Fund, the decision to sell was made. That's a very dangerous statement. She's a lie, of course, I mean it's a lie. A management company like Mr. Ivić said, Management Society, a society that is responsible for governance. Do you think Erste's investment would be exposed to suggesting something dangerous for the Fund's Management Board. So the truth is they've proposed. The Fund's board of directors accepted it after large debates, long-term consultations from all sides. So that's true. You can check it because there are records from that time on the work of the Management Board of the Fund. You can check everything. So, please accept this fact and this truth. Please be nice until the end of the debate this is not good, that one part of the doubt remains. And another thing when you say politics even though you have heard that most of the members of the Management Board and then and now they are Croatian defenders. But you're expressing suspicion, you're actually insulting those defenders who were at the same time members of the Fund's Management Board as the underprivilegeds who failed here to realize that the politics of some of them are being manipulated. That's not true. And then today, and now I'm talking about that time because I was the minister of Croatian defenders. Defence representatives at the Fund's Management Board were respectable people with biographies that should be bowed above all, and defense biographies, so the biographies of people who defended the country but also people who knew something about the functioning of the funds. So, I'm asking you nicely to accept this and let's end this debate that someone has made some decision under pressure and actually that's what you want to say damaged the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54716	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54717	Yeah, well, here's my colleague Kosor on this first part I said if I was wrong, I apologize, so I heard wrong. I wasn't an actor of these events, but some people told me that it was like that, and they obviously misinformed me, and I said here I was wrong, wrong, wrong is a mistake. But when that is the case with a time-out of these few years, can we today argue that it was a good decision, that it was the right decision? Or can we today determine that you have made mistakes together both the trust fund and the company that manages the fund? So, that was actually about the common, only your common mistake. There was no longer a question of only one but obviously you all made the wrong decision together because the total assets of the fund were practically reduced to 92% only to shares of HT. And it's unusual and it's not a practice in fund operations that always rely on a few sides because of course it's known if you rely on only one group of shares like today's trust fund, then you have big problems when those shares start to slip or not grow as they might call and as is the case with the HT stock now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54718	Thank you. Next replica, Zeljko Sabo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54719	In your report or speech, you said that by condemning or calling the government, 60% of the participants who sold their shares condemn. I've never heard from a minister or from anyone in the opposition or from a position today or in the media that the right of someone who is someone else's right to have a private property to sell that they did and to have someone call him for it. On the contrary, we said, and I said it's the right and those 40% that are still in the fund today, that it's also their right to sell it. But I have appealed as we have said about the preservation of this fund, and the humanitarianism and all the programs that are commendable to those who have it within themselves unless it is necessary not to sell. So I never heard of him judging anyone for selling his stake in the fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54720	Thank you. Answer, colleague Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54721	So, my colleague Sabo, I don't know if I've heard correctly that in your debate, you have called one representative on the other hand why you sold your share in the fund? I mean, why did you mention him by his last name? I don't know how many thousands of people who sold their stakes in the fund? So, I don't know if I heard it right or heard it wrong? If I've heard wrong, I'm sorry too. I apologize to everyone I have offended and to you if I have offended most of you and apologize to them as well. In any case, it's not a problem to apologize for everything that's wrong with me, it's most important that we work on keeping that fund safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54722	Thank you. Next replica, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54723	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I am saddened that my colleague speaks in his mind, bypasses the truth, and then insults us with it. It offends us that we've done something that's dishonest, talking about us standing up to the fund management company. The society is what it proposes, the society is what it evaluates, the society is what is supervised by the Management Board of the Fund and the society is subject to an independent audit. And that's the truth you don't know. And you don't know the next thing you know, if you read that report, you'd know that it's not just relying on shares of HT, that new shares of both Ericsson and Nikola Tesla and PBZ and Kutjev were introduced into the fund. It all says, you just have to read it, not speak it by heart, and not insinuate it. This debate if you wanted to get involved then you should be prepared, professional and competent, not speaking by heart. All the records exist. I'm proud that we've made decisions so that 45% of them can pay off their shares. That the other money that was left we could deposit and make out of those interest still today is filled with the fund if you saw it, and you could see it says everything. It writes everything from short-term deposits and interest is also filled with what we share in various ways. So please read and be informed in the future and speak only what you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54724	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54725	I don't know what you're talking about. So, did you read that 92.04% of the shares owned by the fund are only shares of HT? Does that say it or doesn't it say it in the report? I think it does. And the remainder of 9.96% is all other shares in the fund. As far as the auditor's findings were concerned, the findings of the auditors were always in HAC, both in HT and Croatian roads and in Croatian forests and in Croatian waters we have always found an auditor and about the Energy Efficiency Fund were the findings of the auditors each year independent of how wonderful everything is, how well everything works. That same auditor has been reporting for many years. The independent signs for all public companies and public institutions sign here and for the fund and you will forgive me if taught by examples of some public companies that were just Mecca Robbery don't exactly believe too much. It's about the signing of that independent auditor. And secondly, read a little better, and you'll see for yourself that the total fund rests on HT.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54726	Thank you. Next replica, Tinker Millas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54727	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My predecessors expressed what I was about to say in their replica, but here I must be honest with you very much appreciate your contribution to all the discussions you've had so far and I appreciate you as a defender, but I don't think you've devoted yourself enough to this subject in terms of thinking that you've entered a bit of a cob... It is true that this fund rests mainly on HT shares, but the company that made the proposal to sell INA gave on an exact basis by talking to people who know something about the fund's business or the prices at the time, so three thousand kuna per share of INA was an excellent price. Remember that right after that, the price quickly went to 900 kuna and a thousand kunas camped for a year. I'm asking you, in what state would the fund be in? Let's try to run an analysis, see how many people have redeemed their stakes in that year, and which branches would the Croatian Defence Fund fall at the price of the INA stock at the cost of a thousand kuna? Let's try to put it all on, and then maybe we can talk more metrically and make some conclusions about business, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54728	Thank you, too. The answer of my colleague Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54729	Thank you. So they can do projections in different directions. Here's if you'd offered one such projection and then we could talk about it and I'd ask you something else if we were to talk about what it would be like. What would be the position of the Republic of Croatia today in negotiations with the Hungarian government that the Republic of Croatia through the fund still has 7% of the ownership stakes of the INA and that it has a ownership stake in INA as an H with a fund of over 50%, and we are talking about the INA which is a strategic Croatian company, a strategic base. So when we talk about what would happen if we could talk about what it would look like today. But of course it couldn't have been done when Sanader said it was being sold and you're all still in the chain you should have just realized it as you realized it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54730	Thank you. And the last replica of Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54731	Thank you very much. We're from the same club, and what's important is the truth. INA's stock was sold at 2,800 kuna. Today, anyone who looks at the Zagreb Stock Exchange is worth 3.950 kuna. Also when I replicated Mrs. Kosor, I said that exactly 92.14% of HT stock funds were worth 31.12. 198 kunas today are worth 169 kunas. The loss only on HT shares is 204 million. And now count the loss that we have sold shares of INA today or that the state has done something which is to buy those shares and offer one other solution, one better solution for Croatian but also for Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54732	Thank you. We continue with the individual debate Tomislav Ivić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54733	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I am sorry, first of all, that we are discussing this report late, we are discussing the 2012 Fund report practically early in the 11th month, and I think it is not the appropriate time for this report to be discussed much earlier, at least in the first half of the year. However, regardless of this failure, and the fact is that in this House we have very often such failures that we are discussing reports at the end and even next year, I will support this report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund because I think it is correct, that it is good and that I would say it is already a standardised report in which they are key data relating to the operations of the Croatian Defence Fund. I will also repeat what several colleagues in their discussions or replicas pointed out that the Croatian Defence Fund is certainly one of the most valuable projects aimed at Croatian defenders, families of the dead Croatian defenders and children of Croatian defenders, who in the past nine years has already been fully justified by his existence and has been direct and material and any other support to both Croatian defenders and families of Croatian defenders and of course children of Croatian defenders. We have heard here that up until now, 60% of Croatian defenders or about 300 thousand Croatian defenders have sold their stakes in the Croatian Defence Fund. Not to mention specifically, and in the debate it was mentioned that the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders and children of Croatian defenders has been successfully functioning for a number of years from the profits achieved by the Croatian Defence Fund and that only last year, nearly 10,000 scholarships have been secured for that purpose. Otherwise, as far as I know, approximately 60 thousand scholarships have been granted for children of Croatian defenders and Croatian defenders. There are no similar institutions in this country such as the Fund for the Scholarship of Children of Croatian Defence, and not so many institutions have distributed scholarships to those who need this help in schooling. If there wasn't a fund there would have to be another model and a way to compensate,... Fortunately, that Fund is here, he's working successfully. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think it would be a real shame if there were to be a shut-down of the Croatian Defence Fund in perspective because then this Fund would also be shut down for the scholarship of children of Croatian defenders. It is also important to highlight the existence of the Croatian Defence Foundation, which is primarily aimed at the social part and I would like to say what is very often to Croatian defenders and families of Croatian defenders most needed and that thousands and thousands of single money aids are directed towards Croatian defenders from the Croatian Defence Fund, who also generates income from profits, from one third of the Croatian Defence Fund. So, only this information that I have presented speaks of the great importance and importance of the Croatian Defence Fund and that we would indeed, and here we are in these debates that we have all heard so far agreed on was indeed a shame if the Croatian Defence Fund was shut down. And of course you're asking a logical question what needs to be done not to happen. The answer is essentially very simple and the only possible answer is that it is necessary in the near and further future to introduce new assets into the Croatian Defence Fund, it can and must happen in the process of further privatization of state-owned companies and which will be sold today and part of that sale should and must, of course, end up in the Croatian Defence Fund. I hope that will happen regardless of the announcements of Mr. Linic's Minister of Finance. It's not Linic who decides, and it's not even the Government who decides, and this House should decide some things, especially these things. And I am convinced that this Fund, regardless of what its assets are reduced for years, no matter what would happen if there is no new asset in the Fund’s portfolio that this will still happen and that, with fresh capital, that is, new shares in the Fund’s portfolio, the future will also be provided so that the Fund can fulfil all the tasks provided for by the Fund Act. What I am of course interested in and I am asking here the question of the deputy minister of how much the Fund's profit is estimated for this year 2013, and how much money can be counted on in this year and next for the re-supply of children of Croatian defenders? How much of that will the Foundation get? And how much is it today and this information is also known, what is the value of the participation in the Croatian Defence Fund because it is calculated daily? I think it is important for this debate that we know what the current situation is, that is, what is the French data on the Croatian Defence Fund. Because it should not be forgotten that these data contained in this report are all data on 31.12.2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54734	Thank you, too. We have one replica of Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54735	Thank you. Dear fellow MP, first of all on the finding that you expect that in some future sales of state-owned companies, a portion of the portfolio belongs to the Croatian Defence Fund. It will be interesting to listen to the debate when these topics come to order because we are primarily against the sale of the remaining, unsold part of state property at all. So I'm a little surprised, given that several times on both sides of your club there have been talks about you being opposed, that you are calling for the sale of Croatia's insurance and Croatian postal bank, I suppose that's what this is all about at all. But what we can't escape from, we're going back to the stock of the INA. The then Prime Minister, she was, Mrs Kosor was Minister in 2008 when the decision was made. I will also remind you, you were then, if I am not mistaken as State Secretary, Mrs Kosor then declared on October 1st 2008 that it was a unanimous decision by the board of directors whose member you were. And then at the question of Agent Cain at the current hour of 28.9.2011, when you were Prime Minister and then Mr. Ivić accused Croatian defenders that they had left 7% of the shares to the management of the INA MOL. And then, quote, you said, "If you were directed, you'd know that I didn't vote for that decision at the time, I was the only member of the board of directors who didn't support that decision." What was true about the fact that it was a unanimous decision in 2008 or that you were the only member who had not cast her vote? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54736	We're moving on, I'm sorry. ... Here, here's a replica I haven't noticed. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54737	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Buric, what you said is absolutely nothing and it's all true what you said. First of all, I'm not calling for any sales, I'm talking about a possible sale, which doesn't mean I'm calling for sales. Shares in the Croatian Defence Fund can be transferred without sale. The government of the Republic of Croatia can decide tomorrow to transfer 7% of its ownership to the Croatian Defence Fund. And the other thing you're saying the same thing, but it's completely incorrect. The sale of shares of INA took place in 2008, I was a parliamentary representative in 2008, so I was no longer a State Secretary in the Ministry and I had no part in this business at all, although I would not have anything to be ashamed of. And it's completely incorrect, I don't know who you're essentially replicating, whether you're replicating me or my colleague Kosor, I don't get it. Secondly, if you are already talking about it, Ms Kosor voted or was restrained when the decision was taken on the selection of the management company for the Croatian Defence Fund, not when the decision on the sale of shares or shares of the INA was made. Therefore, not when a decision on the sale of shares of INA was taken but when a decision was taken on the selection of the company after the public tender was carried out. So if you're talking, then at least you're going out with the arguments and the things that match the truth, and not like this, the flatulence or the insinuation, or I don't know what your intention was. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54738	Thank you. We're continuing... Please, you can discuss this later. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Josip Djakić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54739	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here we heard through the debate in today's morning, everything important about the Croatian Defence Fund is actually said. It has been said that its noble efficiency towards children of Croatian defenders and defenders who have been manifested throughout all these years, there are already 50,000 scholarships that have been absorbed and used by children to complete their colleges and secondary schools. In this year the report is submitted with 9556 scholarships resulting from the Croatian Defence Scholarship Fund and that is what makes everyone happy and happy, and the Management Board and the Management Society so many numbers possible. It is true that scholarships are cash and materially reduced for both secondary schools and colleges, given the constant reduction in the assets of the fund i.e. the inflow of dividends divided into trust and trust. In fact, it is evident that within two years the law has been broken, so it is not what the law requires that dividends be shared at the Croatian Defence Fund and should be fixed, it should not be left that way, since it is the foundation that deals with social problems and those who are really in a socially threatening position. To them, up to some 6,000 kunas can be paid once a year in cash from that. So we see that in the past 4825 financial assistance to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and families with 11 million 505 thousand 229 kuna is from the funds left over by the Croatian Defence Fund from the previous years, as well as from interest on the funds. It could have been arranged differently and it should have been legally defined differently, but here's what it is, I hope it's not such a big legal deviation and it's not going to happen in the future. What concerns us all today and what we all have concluded is that Mr Linic's famous announcement that there will be no state shares, which means that he absolutely does not think that this Fund should survive, but that also does not mean that privatisation is necessary to get those shares into the Croatian Defence Fund. Privatisation is not necessary and sales are not necessary and the HDZ club is not needed and I personally think that it is not necessary to sell either Croatian insurance, nor the HPB but 7% share transfer to the fund it is necessary and the need to remain and remain in order to continue to function, and the state, if it has the right controllers or the right authority, will probably worry that these institutions are doing well. And I think Croatia's insurance is also doing business with profits, so there's no reason to sell it for anything, and I don't think HPB's been in any kind of downs since the new administration, that it's working out as well. So I don't see any reason to sell them, but I see justifiable reasons for the fund to be filled with this 7% of the company and so it works further, since I believe that these 40% of the defenders who are left will remain solid with their colleagues, that they won't sell their stakes, that there won't be any need for additional funds to pay them off and that there will be enough funding for those human social and just scholarships received by those who have a legal basis, which is some kind of censorship, a family censorship that doesn't cross. It's the same standard it has to be. We believe that... orderly, professionally, impartially oversees and controls, controls and reports that there are no deviations from financial marifettelucs that could happen and that investments are done in accordance with legal activities and possibilities, which are not over 5% as you could see in the report and in the law are no more than 5% of the roles or transfers to one financial house or any deposits. So I think that this report is, like everyone else so far, transparently shown with all the details that speak about the activity of the fund which is certainly the best thing that has happened lately, given that one of the funds has failed due to negligence, irresponsibility, incompetence, and that is the Croatian Homeland Fund which still conducts procedures in courts to save what is being saved. I don't think this guy's gonna live to see that fate. I express my faith in all those who see such wonderful business with the outcomes of 50,000 scholarships, so many social aids that go through it that they will continue to continue, that they will be recognised jointly and that Mr Linic will remove the suspicions that are in the Croatian public and also in the defence population particularly questionable and constantly come demands whether this is true. If that's the case, then we'll do the same. The possibility of merely announcing that 7% of state-owned companies will continue to enter the fund will be the certainty that there is no further sale of shares and that the fund has security and sustainability. There's so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54740	Thank you, too. Dujomir Marasovic first answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54741	Dear Mr. President, colleague Djakic. You mentioned Minister Linic that he will not comply with the law regarding payment to this Croatian Defence Fund and you may in some way wonder or hope for something. What do you have to wonder and hope for? The ruling set, I say the party, so some tell me the game. Well, the party, the Social Democratic Party is not someone else, the party has executed, tried to execute a coup, and a coup, a coup attempt. That's what I'm saying publicly, and now you're laughing again. You're committing a coup in an attempt by a civilian without an army. And what's behind that? There's a man's dictatorship behind that. That's right! Just laugh at your co-workers. You derogate the Constitution. So you're destroying constitutional order, you're making a coup.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54742	.../Upadica Batinić: Col. Marasović, you are replicating colleagues Djakic./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54743	And unfortunately, the Constitutional Court must be involved. And what does Linic care?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54744	.../Upadica Batinić: Kolega Marasoviću stop./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54745	I won't stop. He's got 54 seconds left.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54746	.../Invader Batinić: You are violating the Rules of Procedure./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54747	I'm not breaking anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54748	.../Intruding Batinić: You are replicating colleagues Djakic in his debate./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54749	Linic can be proud, nothing I do, this is within this point I will not stop. He's got 42 seconds left.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54750	.../Intruding Batinić: I take away the word of my colleague Marasovic. Sit down, please! I interrupt you in the replica, I take away your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54751	What are you taking my word for?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54752	.../Invader Batinić: Do not stick to the subject of replica, topic of debate./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54753	I'm pretty much sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54754	Next replica of counterpart Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54755	... The law is taken care of. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I'd run if you didn't take care of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54756	You've taken up the line to replicate your colleagues, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54757	Yeah, I told him not to expect anything from Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54758	That's right, it's good and you're done. Comrade Marasović, please sit down! [[Intruder Marasovic: Well, don't hope and I explained it to you.]] Thank you. And a microphone, please. [[Intruder Marasović: Here it is, I sat down.]] No, no. [[Intruder Marasović: Yes, yes.]] I don't burn it. We have the next replica of my colleague Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54759	Thank you very much. Comrade Djakic, I think you said the most important thing at the end of your debate. So this report that we are discussing with all the remarks that we can have on it both from the past and from the future. All that matters is that in no case does the Croatian Defence Fund come into question. That's what we all agreed on, and that's what I have to agree with you guys. That's where you got the good ending. At no cost must the Croatian Defence Fund come into question, because it is also with all its mistakes in the past and we hope that they will not be absolutely justified in the future. And when we talk about possible announcements and fears that will happen if it happens, then let it be a warning to today's ruling guarantee that it is not even trying to go that way to endanger the survival of the Croatian Defence Fund. And in that sense, I must agree with you in order not to be a witness, I hope it will never happen that one year we do not, perhaps, have a late report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund, but that it does not happen in the House at all. Therefore, when I spoke and in the previous replica, let us not allow at any cost the survival of the Croatian Defence Fund to come into question, but also to allow it to be filled with the sale of the national treasure. It can also be filled precisely in such a way as to transfer the shares, but whether or not it is said in a slip and the word mentioned from the future sale.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54760	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54761	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Buric, yes, I told him what I think and what I'm behind, and I hope there were no mistakes or doubts about the mistakes in the decisions we've made. The fund is operating, the fund is healthy, the fund still has capital. All those 60% were paid without a debt, no interest, no interest, and that 7% passed 51% of INA property. That's what matters. 42%, with 7%, came to 42%, and that is what we need to explain to the Croatian public. And 25 plus one share meant management as it is today. Nothing's changed. I don't know what happened by revising the contract, but not 51% is not enabled. And that's what's important to say. If it was 51%, I wouldn't be sure to vote for it, be assured. But this way I can say that we did good, that we got the biggest possible price for the stock at that point, that it was worth it to everyone, that the notes and everything that was deposited from that money used only by Croatian defenders who needed them most and their children. I believe there will be no sale and the fund will be filled. I believe that the government, the minister, and all those who decide will decide justly and honestly so that there will be no harm to the defenders and that my suspicion will not occur is from the last time the Homeland Fund failed. When he failed because of his intricacies, incompetence, because of bias, and who knows what relationships that are still in court today, that's what I said, and that's why I'm afraid he wouldn't come into the same position.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54762	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the proponent, Deputy Minister Vesna Nadj. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54763	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. I thank you for the constructive debate on the 2012 report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families. The debate clearly concludes that the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families is one of the best projects aimed at Croatian defenders and members of their families precisely for the reasons of humanitarian and social purposes, so the scholarship of Croatian defenders, children of Croatian defenders and family members of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders. In addition, the foundation has its own purpose, by granting one-time cash assistance to those Croatian defenders who are in a difficult social situation. The fact is that most of the value of the fund rests on shares of HT which the value of these shares on 25.10. is 478.78 kuna. The initiative of the Croatian Defence Fund Management Board and members of their families towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia, according to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy, took place at the beginning of this year in order to ensure that the privatisation of public enterprises owned by the Republic of Croatia and in the majority ownership of the Republic of Croatia is transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund. Minister Predrag Matic has conducted a series of talks both in the government and with Minister Linic and has never said that he will not give anything to the Croatian Defence Fund and that the Croatian Defence Fund will be allowed to shut down. The Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund in this regard also launched an initiative to amend the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families. This initiative has been positively echoed and we expect a broad debate on the subject and inclusion and experts dealing with investment funds. The amendment of the law is aimed at pro-active management of the fund in order to allow the fund management company to make it easier for certain funds to be invested in the market. The Croatian Defence Fund has opened an investment fund with one such possibility not to invest widely, for example, shares that are not on the market. So we expect a broad debate and we can positively determine one debate on both the subject and the board of directors and the parliamentary Committee on Veterans and beyond. As regards legal regulations, the Law on Privatisation of Public Enterprises as you know it has ceased to apply to the adoption of the Law on State Property Management, which was adopted at the end of 2010 and entered into force on 1 January 2011 and we now have no provisions as set out in Article 13. The Privatisation Act where every special law will regulate the privatisation of public enterprises owned by the Republic of Croatia and thus by the privatisation law of INA and other public enterprises determines that 7% of the shares will go to the Croatian Defence Fund. So such a provision no longer exists. There is only a provision on the State Property Management Act referred to in Article 36 where it is said to be exceptional from the provision of Articles 32 to 34. The Government of the Republic of Croatia may decide, on a proposal from the competent ministry in relation to the core activity of the company and, with the agreement of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy, on this proposal, that shares or business shares in certain companies are available in a different way in order to achieve certain economic interests or fulfil the obligations of the Republic of Croatia. So the Government of the Republic of Croatia can decide differently. So I'm not selling on the market. We therefore expect that the Croatian Defence Fund will continue to operate, that these amendments to the law, the Management Board of the Fund will have a more proactive action, and thus the management company of the Fund, and that this humanitarian and social purpose which the Fund has and which it will continue to have will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54764	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54765	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Madam Deputy Minister and so far, discussions have often been held and expert discussions on the fund's future and future. Among other things, there has been an earlier initiative to transform the model of conservative management of the fund into proactive as you say. But, of course, we haven't decided on that variant, and I think that this very conservative model of fund management has led to what we've all discussed today and concluded that the fund is still there. That there's a fund, a fund that makes us very useful. Do not let this proactive management of the fund's assets not to turn into what happened with what Djakic mentioned with the Homeland Fund when the shares of the press were then one of the most valuable in the Republic of Croatia who were in the portfolio of that fund replaced by shares that were not worth anything on the market. It could be with a proactive fund policy. There's no need to change the Fund Act, the fund has successfully done business all these years and it's not a problem. The problem is that a new asset should be entered into the fund and if it is done then the future of the fund is guaranteed for at least the next 15, 20 years. And the change of laws does not guarantee or condition a more successful operation of the fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54766	Thank you. Here's your answer, deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54767	When I was talking about the proactive management of the fund, it's not just about the market for shares that are on the market, it can be said that we now have in the fund and the dividend which is the blocking that you or the fund management company cannot turn with it. So there's a situation that dividends are a few dozen kunas that's been standing for over three, four years. So it's one property that can't just be invested. So when it comes to proactively speaking, it's not just about market shares, it's about the entire management of the fund's assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54768	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54769	Report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2012. The debate on the report is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2012. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted unanimously by 116 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54770	. We continue with: - Report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2012 The Report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was translated by the War Veterans Committee. You received the reports at the session. Do you want to explain the deputies on behalf of the Proposer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54771	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. There is a report before you on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2012. The report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families covers the period from 1 January to 31 December 2012. The report shows public policy towards Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, and that according to the victims of the Homeland War and members of their families, through the payment of disability and pension rights, as well as to Croatian defenders who have not received damage to the organism and members of their families. In 2012, 5 billion 765 million 658 million 953.55 kuna were spent on the exercise of the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The largest share of 4 billion 822 thousand... 152.26 kuna or 84.67% have the means to exercise pension insurance rights and the means to exercise permanent rights of 701 million 208 thousand 586.67 kuna, which is 5.25% lower than in 2011. [[/The speaker reads too fast, he doesn't understand.]] Since the law lays down the rights of other public administration authorities in the report, qualitative and quantitative data on the implementation of legal provisions relating to rights and health protection, pension insurance, employment, the right to the advantage of employment, customs tax exemptions and other rights prescribed by law are given. Data were also presented on the implementation of those provisions of the law relating to the acquisition of disability and other related rights of HRVI from the Homeland War, personal disability, orthopaedic allowance, compensation for the care and assistance of another person, the right to care, the right to a personal car for HRVI first groups with 100% damage to the organisms and family members of the dead, the prisoner or missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War family disability. Rights were also processed with the basis of material and other needs of users, the right to a special allowance, care services for HRVI from the Homeland War 1st group, the right to supply and compensation for house assistance, the privilege of accommodation in retirement homes, the marking of the site of mass graves of victims of the Homeland War, the provision of funeral expenses with the award of military honors. The amendments and additions to the 2012 law allow public publication of the Croatian Defence Register. The following data are available in electronic form from the register, name and name of one parent, last name, year and place of birth, total number of days of participation in the Homeland War, belonging to the combat or non-combat sector by number of days, and belonging to the MORH or the MUP. the other data from the register may be published exclusively with the written consent of the defender or members of the family of the dead person, held or missing Croatian defender. On 31st December 2012, there were 502 thousand 678 Croatian defenders in the register. The report may set out as the most important following data compared to the previous reporting period. In 2012, there were 77,000 943 users of permanent money rights, which is 1% higher than in 2011. Of which, in the reporting period, 56 thousand 961 users of personal disability were on average, which was 3.26% more than in 2011 and 219 million, 164.93 kuna and 3.51% less than in 2011. The supply was paid in 2012 for an average of 5558 users totalling 73 million 555 thousand 293.14 kuna, which is 6.39% less than in 2011. A total of 7688 users were used for the family disability, which is 34.44% less users compared to 2011, and a total of 237 million 125 million 972.14 kuna was paid, which is 2.7% less than in 2011. During the reporting period, an average of 443 carers who provided care and assistance to HRVI from the Homeland War with 100% damage to the first group organism were employed monthly. In 2012, 29 million 563 thousand, 341.09 kuna were paid, which is 1.8% less than in 2011. In 2012, 769 users were granted one-time cash aid, i.e. 2,28% less compared to the number of one-time cash aids in 2011 and the socially vulnerable families of Croatian defenders in 2012 paid 2 million 477 thousand 78.47 kuna, which is 10.86% lower in 2011. During 2012, the co-financed procurement of 122 orthopedic aids amounted to 18.12% lower than in 2011 for 98 HRVI from the Homeland War, which was spent a million 999 thousand 222.88 kuna and 4.67% higher, respectively, compared to 2011. In 2012, 93 cars of Opel Insignia automatic was delivered, according to the contract for the purchase and delivery of personal vehicles for HRVI from the Homeland War 100% damage of the first group and for the stated purpose spent a total of 9 million 195 thousand 626,10 kuna. All housing requirements received by 30 November 2011 were included in the valid list of the order of the championship and in accordance with the order established during the reporting period a positive settlement of 286 applications for the award of the apartment and the housing loan, and 11.45% less than in 2011. During the reporting period, a total of 49 million 702 thousand 853.15 kuna was spent on residential care from the ministry's title for defence jobs, down from 36.74% compared to 2011. In 2012, 4 billion 822 million were paid for pensions and pension benefits of Croatian defenders, 20 thousand 159.26 kuna, which is 0.33% more than in 2011. In 2012, the pension was used by an average of 70,000 541 users, which was 0.60% higher than in 2011 and the remuneration in relation to the use of the right to professional rehabilitation was used by an average of 5 users. The average monthly pension for 2012 was reduced by taxes and taxes was 5 thousand 296,98 kuna, which is an increase of 0.5% compared to 2011 from the total number of pensioners in 2012. The disability pension received an average of 58 000 and 300 users, up from 1.07% more than in 2011 on which a total of 3 billion 566 million 455 million 531,48 kuna was spent, which is 1% more than in 2011. The family pension was received by an average of 11 thousand 856 users, down by 2,02% compared to in 2011, with a total of 1 billion 10 million 510 thousand 17.50 kuna spent, which is 1.47% less than in 2011. The right to a minimum pension under Article 31(3) of the Law means defenders without a pension or insufficient to exercise the right to retire from 60 years of a woman's life, or 65 years of age, used an average of 385 users per month which is 5.97% more than in 2011 and expenditure was 11 million 605 thousand 531,36 kuna, which is 15.11% more than in 2011. The average monthly minimum pension in 2011 was 2 thousand 357,82 kuna. A total of 28 million 799 thousand 936,47 kuna was spent in 2012 for the exercise of health insurance rights, which is 29.65% less than in 2011. And the status of the health insurance company based on the properties of Croatian defenders achieved a total of 15 thousand 316 persons in 2012 which is 11.38% less than in 2011. During the reporting period, the right to free textbooks, i.e. the right to pay fees, totalled 18 thousand 410 users and 12.15% less than in 2011, on which 25 million 176 thousand 750.1 kuna was spent, which is 10.48% less than in the previous year. During 2012, 84 requests for supervision in respect of the exercise of the right of advantage in the employment of persons referred to in Article 35(1) of the Law of which 5 cases have found infringements of the right of advantage in employment were accepted. Four requests have been submitted to other inspection services. 68 requests have been resolved as unfounded, the requirements have been rejected. At the employment of Croatian defenders in 2012 through the programme of professional training and employment of Croatian defenders and children of the mortally injured, imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders, the Ministry spent a total of 46 million 241 million 726.48 kuna, which is 1.49% higher than in 2011. During 2012, 32 individual tombs were discovered in which exhumed remains were found of 37 persons and a mass grave with... In addition, the common tombs have been exhumed by the remains of 59 persons, making up a total of 106 exhumed persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 6 identifications of postmortem remains were organised, inviting members of the family 93 exhumed persons and following completion of the identification, a total of 72 persons were transported and buried. A total of 897 people were buried at the Memorial grave of the victims of the Homeland War in Vukovar and during the 19th reporting period. The Ministry of Defence spent a total of 1 million kunas in 2012 and 13 projects were co-financed through the project. During 2012, a total of 2312 Croatian defenders from the Homeland War were buried, spending 11 million 915 thousand 677.44 kuna. A total of 44972 interventions were provided to participants and victims from the Homeland War in the 21st County Center for Psychosocial Assistance in 2012 which was 21% less than in 2011, for 37347 users and 19.5% less than in 2011. In 2012, the Health Rehabilitation Programme of the Homeland War was continued and 83 HRVI was spent in 2012 which was 3.75% higher than in 2011 and 318835.52 kuna was spent to provide medical rehabilitation services. In accordance with Articles 129 and 130. During 2012, the Ministry of Defence carried out a review of first-degree solutions that established the status of family members of the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and the right to a family disability, the right to an increased family disability, the status of family members missing or imprisoned Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and the financial compensation for family disability, increased family invalidity, increased family disability status, the status of the Homeland War and the right to personal disability, the allowance for the care and assistance of another person, orthopaedic allowance, special allowances, supplies, extras for the help in the house and the solution granted to the personal car from the Homeland War of the First Group. If a complaint has been made against first-degree solutions, the appeal shall be resolved within the framework of the audit. A total of 13275 administrative cases have been resolved in the reporting period, 2252 of which have been resolved by making a new solution that has previously amended or repealed a new decision. In total, 5 billion and 765 million 658 953.55 kuna were spent in 2012 to implement the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, down by 0.88% compared to 2011. The report shows that all legal obligations are implemented and projects financed in accordance with the budgetary means provided. The report was unanimously adopted at a session of the Croatian War Veterans Committee, which is members of parliamentary representatives from the ruling coalition and from the opposition. This is another proof that the Ministry of Defence has acted legally and in accordance with its mission to establish that the Ministry of Defence will cherish and preserve the values and gains of the defence and liberating Homeland War on the pride of Croatian defenders, war victims and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and that it will protect the interests and integrity of all war participants and consistently implement public policies in order to ensure adequate health and social care for those most grateful to Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54772	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have two replicas. Tomislav Ivić first.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54773	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I am interested in the fact that there has been an increase in the number of Croatian defenders because in this report it is, and you have also pointed out that currently in the Croatian Defence Register there are 502,000 and 688, if I have heard correctly, Croatian defenders. In all the announcements for the publication of the Croatian Defence Register, the thesis was made that the Croatian defenders were not 501 thousand, that 300 thousand people defended Croatia, so that this is a fictional figure, etc., that during HDZ authorities, a deliberate number of defenders, etc., were produced, etc. And let me remind you that at the end of 2011 there were 501 thousand Croatian defenders in the Croatian Defence Register, we are now hearing the information that currently 502 thousand 688 Croatian defenders are. I am interested in Mrs. Nadj how there was an increase in this number of defenders although I think it could not have been achieved because there is a legal obstacle, so according to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence in 2010 or 2011, the possibility of obtaining the status of defenders has been stopped but we see that almost 2,000 people in the meantime have gained the status of defenders. So from that announcement that the number of defenders would be reduced, that there would be order in the list obviously that nothing had happened but it happened so that 2,000 people later entered the list of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54774	Thank you. The reply to the replica, please welcome Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54775	As for increasing the number of Croatian defenders, there is a legal provision that regulates that a procedure for obtaining the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War can no longer be carried out, but there are also records of participation in the Homeland War which Croatian defenders have never brought to the defence offices and have never sought any rights to do so. So someone who has confirmation from the unit that he participated in the Homeland War as a member of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, whether it's the HV or the police, so he's coming to the Department of Defence and can be recorded in that way. As such, he therefore has a certificate showing that he participated in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and does not need any proof with, for example, two witnesses or any other means of proof because he already has that record. The logs are in the unit, but it wasn't in the MORH. MORH submits records after enrolment in the Defence Register and thus increases the number of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54776	Thank you. And the next replica, Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54777	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister. I must begin by saying that this report that you gave the opening statement is really thorough, that it is very quality and that it represents a very good basis for discussion. However, I have responded with a replica to ask you a very specific question of life. Namely, when you spoke in the opening statement about the rights of Croatian defenders among others, you also spoke about the right to housing, and then you said that 286 requests for an apartment or a residential loan were positively resolved in 2012. So, I remind you that local self-government units also participate in accordance with the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders in addressing the problem of housing care of defenders, so my question in this regard refers specifically to the following. A Međimurje municipality assigned land to the defender, so the building plot for the construction of the house and gave him a deadline for the house to be built within seven years. Here's exactly the seven years that passed this year and this summer the defender showed up in the municipality and said that since he didn't do anything, he didn't even start building a house that he was going to sell. Here's my question: Is he allowed to do it, or what kind of public action should the problem be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54778	Thank you, too. Answer, please, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54779	As for the obligation, the local self-government unit can, of course, care for the victims of the Homeland War if they have certain financial resources. If a gentleman can sell a certain land, it's all a matter of contract. I mean, I guess by contract there's some kind of criminal sanction for that. As for care through the Ministry of Defence of the Victims of the Homeland War, in the case of a request for care, evidence is required, therefore, that a certain user means, the future beneficiary of that housing is not owned, means neither the apartment, nor the parts of the apartment he has enough for the purpose of providing him and his family with housing. We also participate with local self-government units in certain projects and co-financing, meaning the housing of victims in certain areas. This has proved to be a very good project because in this way the units of local self-government can also be taken care of in one building by some of the people they need to function and local communities, for example doctors and the like, and it can be in the same building and it means the victims of the Homeland War, and possibly if there are business spaces they can be for, means as libraries and for some public projects of the local community themselves. So, the co-operation of the Ministry of Defence and the local communities has proven very well, and we will, we already have some projects that go towards that end and we think that local communities need as much as possible, and the ministry will encourage it to cooperate because only by common means can we provide all the victims of the Homeland War that there is still enough left.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54780	Thank you. On behalf of the board, does anyone want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Yeah? Here is my colleague Djakic, the Committee for War Veterans. Right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54781	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. The Council of War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 12th session held on 2.10.2013 the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2012 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 29 August 2013. The Committee held the discussion as a parent body in accordance with Article 91(1) of the basic Regulation. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The applicant's representative also pointed out that last year the Ministry of Defence carried out all obligations under the law in 2012 in the exercise of the rights and Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. According to him, 5 billion 765 million 658 thousand 953 kuna was spent, down by 51 million kuna compared to 2011. The largest share of 4 billion 822 million kuna is or 84.67% have the means to exercise pension insurance rights and the means for achieving permanent rights of 701 thousand 208 kuna or 12.15%. Other rights that participate in small shares in total assets should be allocated to housing of 49 million kunas or 0.87% less funds as well as employment of 46 million,241 thousand kunas or 0,80% less. Funds intended for health insurance rights of €28 million or €0.50% less. Free textbook funds of 25 million kuna or 0.50% less. The funds for free textbooks amounting to 25 million 176 thousand kuna or 0.43% less, and the funds of customs and tax reliefs of 23 million kuna or 0.40% less. Last year, there was a 13141 request on the housing list, and a positive solution was made to 286 requests for an apartment or a residential loan. The amendments and additions to the law at the end of 2012 enabled the public publication of the register of Croatian defenders. The following data from the register are available to the public in electronic form. Name, name of one parent, last name, year and place of birth, total number of days of participation in the Homeland War, membership of the fighting or non-combat sector by number of days, and membership of the MORH or the MUP. Other data from the register can only be published with the written application of the defenders and members of the family of the death-sufficient Croatian defender or missing. On 31 December 2012, there were 502 thousand 678 Croatian defenders in the register. In the past year 32 individual and 2 mass graves were discovered, in all 47 postmortem remains of persons identified... 88 people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the debate followed by the board members, they had no significant objections to the report and stressed that it was exhaustive, correct and accurate. The comments mainly referred to controversial housing, in particular HRVI, with a lower degree of damage to the organism and defenders of volunteers, knowing that at the end of last year there were 13 141 requests on the residence list, the need to secure larger funds intended for this purpose to continue building apartments for victims in locations where local self-government units provided land. It has been noted that in the table where the mass graves of the victims of the Homeland War are listed and the mention of the markings set should be added to some that have been marked for years and which the ministry has financed are Chetnikovac and Voćin. More attention should also be paid to the health care of Croatian defenders as 2,312 defenders died last year. After the debate was held, the committee decided unanimously with 9 votes to propose to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion that a report on the implementation of the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54782	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of HDZ Representatives Club Josip Djakic. Here's a colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54783	Thank you very much. Here you have heard from the deputy lady, and from me from the HDZ club board, will support this report, but there are certain important remarks concerning the participation of the law and especially the one relating to the care of Croatian defenders of HVO or those allegedly phantom defenders who are being led as victims on the Dubrovnik battlefield. in the south battlefield. These are the remarks that take place because of the lawsuits sent to the Ministry and the Croatian Government, and now in response to 1,800 solutions on the annulment of the status of Croatian wartime wartime disabled people, i.e. The status of a disabled Homeland War. There should be very careful not to repeat what happened in previous times so that in administrative proceedings and lawsuits that will be filed before municipal or county courts in proving their status, and because of the possible error of bureaucracy or individuals who have made certain mistakes against those people who have really suffered because they are speaking to me daily and I see them personally, visual views show that they do not have parts of the body, arms, legs, etc. They had to get hurt somewhere, and they can't stay without their receipts. And the next Pension Insurance Act also puts it into effect that their pension is taken from the aspect that they were not Croatian defenders because they are not as in the record. They have orderly confirmations, who betrayed them, and why he betrayed them should probably be questioned. Not just undoing solutions and putting people down. This is what is important, and it is not mentioned in this law, given that in this law the pensions of HVO members and members of their families are spoken in that paragraph relating to 6,815 persons whose pension was recognised on the basis of contracts between the Republic of Croatia and BiH on cooperation in the field of the rights of the victims of war in BiH, who were members of the HVO and members of their families determined by law, namely 6,377 invalidity pensions, which averaged 2,724 kuna and 23 June, reduced by taxes and taxes, and 438 family pensions, which were averaged 3 425 kuna and 57 liras reduced for taxes and taxes. In 2012 231 million 459 thousand 150 kuna were paid for these users. The review of the disability assessment done on 2 346 cases suggests that only in 7 cases did the commission not find it appropriate to confirm the same. You can see from the table that the commission disagrees with the evaluation of Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's experts only in 7 cases. In other cases it was the commission agreed with the evaluation of Croatian Pension Insurance Institute experts but did not agree with the cause of disability. The cause of disability is controversial. And in most cases, the commission agrees with the evaluation of Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's experts. This is about 1,349 revised users. We can therefore conclude that the revision does not have any success as well as a well-known announcement that 200 thousand false defenders will be removed through the Croatian Defence Registry. It is evident that the number of defenders in the register has almost increased by 2000, and that is what is worrying. We are aware that the legal possibility exists, and we are not aware that there have been so many administrative disputes filed. Only those who have acquired legal status in administrative disputes can be entered in the Defence Registry until others can change the law, a law that prohibits or prevents anyone from having the status of a Croatian defender who has not absorbed that right by that deadline. I think there's also this new defense attorney in law I think they're probably right but we should change the law so we're in a legal... What we see is the housing of Croatian defenders in terms of their housing, it is clear that no progress has been made even though the circle of users has been expanded. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law extended the possibility for Croatian volunteers to be those who will be on the list for housing, but we did not provide sufficient resources in the budget or the Ministry of Defence, and neither did the Ministry of Civil Engineering, which is responsible for tendering, as well as for accepting parcels of local self-government units equipped with infrastructure to build the necessary and facilitate the housing of Croatian defenders, means the commonity of a local unit with the Ministry of Construction and the Ministry of Defence can be achieved. In such a way that we can see that care is slow and ineffective, we can only say that 294 apartments or loans that were made at this pace during 2012 46 years are needed to provide Croatian defenders. That's what's inadmissible that needs to change, the way of a fast and quality solution must exist, we've been looking for it for almost two years, hasn't been found yet, and I don't think it's even found as much as I've been informed. The question is whether those parcels with building permits for collective housing, given the projections of the 2014 budget, will we believe that these building permits will fail and will not be applied and put into operation as well as construction and housing in the future due to lack of financial resources. This should be given that these apartments, except for the disabled, are 100% built houses and are all taken care of as well as their car supply, all other disabled people pay for their housing units by the percentage of disability that is released and by the number of children are released. The hardest hit are those with 20% to 40% who are also lower on the housing lists that children have already grown up to and can no longer put as a relief for housing. In this respect, all aspects should be taken into account, meaning the possibility of lending from banks since part of the loan is paid by the defenders themselves in that release parity due to disability and plus members of the family. It's calculated and that's how it can be solved. In this way and at the rate we have used so far we have 46 years in advance not to solve all housing, especially because of the expansion of the number of users that are growing every day and every day is increasingly on the list for housing due to legal possibility. We have said in that report, and now I'm going to repeat, which is a worrying, death of Croatian defenders. 416 Croatian military disabled people died in 2012 and 1896 of Croatian defenders. This aspect should only reduce these budget items for the purposes of Croatian defenders, given that a good part of them dies 65 years ago when they exercise the right to guaranteed state pension. The death of Croatian defenders has been discussed on several stands as well as on parliamentary committees in previous times for healthcare and for veterans, for social care, and it has been concluded that cancerous diseases as well as cardiovascular diseases are more frequent due to stress among Croatian defenders than other populations and citizenship. In this comprehensive report, it is alarming that mortality should be tried to prevent as much as possible and as often as possible by reviewing Croatian defenders and free checks as possible to prevent mortality. I can say that units of local self-government are very involved in housing and that they are those who always find understanding, even in individual cases and requirements when they provide parcels for individual housing, which should also be accompanied by the loans of the ministry although in many cases it is not. The land is obtained, the municipal infrastructure is acquired on the plot but the loan is still waiting for several years and that is the problem that should be solved with the business banks so that the ministry from the return on loans that are now being realised as many of these funds were used for depositing with banks so that as many users as possible can obtain credit and build their housing units or buy the already completed apartments that are on the market and too much given the difficult situation in construction and not buying apartments on the housing market. Here's what to say, these are the problems that are the most difficult, housing care and 10 grand and 9 of those that run like a southern battlefield. These are two problems that we face both as a party and as representatives of associations and as defenders and as fellow fighters and friends, and we need to find an adequate solution for those people who are not by their fault today are subject to solutions that are negative and which prevent them from still having the right to a disability, and by this right when you are not in the records of Croatian defenders, then you no longer have the right to retire. This results from the very answer I received from the defence minister, which clearly states that the new Pension Insurance Act is losing the right to retire. I am therefore afraid that thousands of new lawsuits which will be brought against the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence will cause a legal chaos but also great material damage that may arise as it did after 2003 when 3,5 thousand decommissioned claims in courts were made and won. In 98%, the Croatian state paid both the parents of the dead and the disabled of the Homeland War and those who were disbursed. We see that supplies continue to work that is the least form of assistance to Croatian defenders, I would say that it is social assistance to Croatian defenders called supplies and it is at a level of 1087 kuna. And I think that's what's limited and obstacles and that you can't have land, you can't have a car, you can't have a tractor because any one of these would lose the right. I see 5300 users, 5400 of them on this list are certainly a large number of socially endangered defenders who use this only possible aid that the state is accomplishing, which is that they have these 1087 kunas monthly help. I would say that the criteria should be changed, that they should be allowed to have at least receivings that are adequate so that they can settle basic living conditions which is at least up to 1500 to 2000 kuna, that they have for electricity and water and heating. That's the basic thing to live for. Here, I say the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this report but these remarks that I made are open wounds in the defence population, we need to talk about them, we need to find solutions for them. We cannot leave those who are without body parts down, we cannot leave those who have really defended Croatia's homeland and cannot act as if it were none of our business. We need to find options and solutions. The Croatian state is obliged to its defenders to have them Herceg-Bosnia, were those from Croatia, were they from abroad, and were such, who defended Croatia must have a feeling and must represent their interests and find adequate and legal solutions if we found for these incomplete 2000s who were introduced into the register because of the certificates and I would say that it is at the edge of the law, since the law is still worth it then we must find for these people who did not seek their rights or want it, but have received it adequately with their own suffering and bureaucracy when wrongs do not have to suffer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54784	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. First came by Franco Vidovic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54785	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed colleague Djakic. So these last words of yours would sign without any trouble. So, Croatia really has to take care of all the people who fought for it, even if they came from where they came from and that part is not controversial, I mean to none of us, we're all here to protect the defenders and I don't think that part is really controversial. But precisely around these defenders were mentioned the care of HVO defenders, i.e. the care of the so-called. what you called phantom defenders. I think the bad name is the phantom defender, they're real defenders, they're not phantoms, they're just people who haven't been able to achieve certain rights. So, if we were on the same committee and we were, and then the minister informed us that they were working to solve this case but that there were certain legal doubts about the recognition of their status, etc., but that he would take care of it personally and that if I did not cheat and submit a report on it as members of that committee. So I think that's where we all agree that these people should be allowed to still exercise their rights. And as for the defense registry and his announcements. Well, I remember the debate here in this Croatian Assembly when it was called, that is, it was scary, I won't say it was called with the arrest of defenders, etc. When we cross the border. I've crossed the border several times since then in all kinds of directions, no one has arrested me, I don't know that any Croatian defenders have been arrested. And it has proved to be indeed a list of honest people and that it is good to be published. No one was talking about the 200,000 people to be removed from that list. We were already talking about my commander-in-chief, Dr. Francis Tudjman, who sent the Parliament right after the Storm, I think in '96. the year of the first month in which he delivered a number of 300 and a few thousand people. But no one has ever mentioned any 200 thousand people to be removed from the defense list. And in the end, we see the effect of that, it is that several criminal charges have been filed, several dozen criminal charges for the false status of defenders. Thank you. [[Intruder: It's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54786	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54787	Well, here's a colleague, yes, we sat on the same board and talked about the same things, they call them that, I didn't call them, so the media already calls them phantom defenders. I look at them with different eyes than you probably do. But the minister's answer is actually worrying, who did not participate in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 2. Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, i.e. he did not participate in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 2. Law on the rights of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and members of their families. I asked the question there and I got a written answer. This is the Minister's written reply. So they must seek their legal remedy in order to exercise their right not by their own fault but by their desire for Croatia's freedom. As for the register of Croatian defenders, yes, there were colleagues Caine and others who spoke of 200 thousand false, only 30 applications submitted for possible, we will see how they would end up, how many with a powerful verdict and how many with a liberating that they were false. Of those 501 thousand and 6 were then, there are now many more. And it's illegal. As long as this law is in force, no new defenders could be introduced into the register. And for these new defenders, new shares and all rights stemming from the Law had to be secured. We can talk about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54788	Thank you. And another replica of Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54789	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In addition to everything else you said in your debate, you mentioned the category that stems from the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, the category of supplies and everything you said stands, so it is a thousand and so many kunas, along with the criteria that the user must have. It may not be a matter of this report, however, it is said that the supply category disappears, that it will no longer be in rights, so it will not be as the right of the Croatian defender, that it will move to the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth as a minimum protection of compensation, something like that, with criteria that definitely not one or the greatest percentage of those who enjoy today, and we see that this number has been increased by 2,000 and some people, so the user will not be able to achieve them. So, for those people who are de facto today at some level, it's hard to tell social cases in terms of everyday life, survival and existence, I'm going to give you a little bit more if it's true that it's going to enlarge life's problems in a way that we're going to transfer them to another ministry that through some other legal provisions, regulation, we're going to take care of them. I'm saying maybe it's not about this report, but I think it's a good thing to mention it, better than being brought before the final act, so maybe it'll be better to discuss it in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54790	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In addition to everything else you said in your debate, you mentioned the category that stems from the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, the category of supplies and everything you said stands, so it is a thousand and so many kunas, along with the criteria that the user must have. It may not be a matter of this report, however, it is said that the supply category disappears, that it will no longer be in rights, so it will not be as the right of the Croatian defender, that it will move to the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth as a minimum protection of compensation, something like that, with criteria that definitely not one or the greatest percentage of those who enjoy today, and we see that this number has been increased by 2,000 and some people, so the user will not be able to achieve them. So, for those people who are de facto today at some level, it's hard to tell social cases in terms of everyday life, survival and existence, I'm going to give you a little bit more if it's true that it's going to enlarge life's problems in a way that we're going to transfer them to another ministry that through some other legal provisions, regulation, we're going to take care of them. I'm saying maybe it's not about this report, but I think it's a good thing to mention it, better than being brought before the final act, so maybe it'll be better to discuss it in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54791	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. We'll take this report, I think it's well systemized. It is good that here at the beginning of the report clearly shows that last year's budget for the Republic of Croatia is also a separate part of the budget, so nearly 6 billion for different projects, care for Croatian defenders and members of their families. But when you look at the whole report, when you look at everything that the report actually talks about, and it says when you subtract numbers, when you subtract the analysis tells about all of the lost Croatian youth, that's what the report says. He talks about children who have lost their parents, widows, mothers, fathers of dead Croatian defenders, talking about disabled people, so people who have taken away both youth and perspective, so people who have lost body parts, but often it has been followed by family breakdowns and many other difficulties that we in politics probably haven't really had much to hear. People who have PTSD, a serious disease from which there is no salvation because in fact man is fighting against himself. So all of this is essentially what we need to pay attention to, says this report as well as all other previous reports on the exercise of rights and the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, and this report is one of the arguments in favour of all those who are saying that the lawsuit against Serbia should not be dropped. So when you look at this report and look at everything that the Ministry and the other institutions and what we should all do as ordinary citizens, take care of the neighbor who was a Croatian defender, find the missing, find a way to find the key, and we know where the key is, the key is in Belgrade, and I say today, the key to finding the final and complete truth about the missing is in Belgrade, in the archives of the enemy Yugoslav Army. Therefore, it is only necessary to reach that level of conversation, co-operation and political will to remove that key and unlock that door and resolve it. That is the most painful humanitarian, human, every question in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, on the missing persons list, on a united list of missing persons, everyone disappeared during the Homeland War and certainly every family, every father, every mother, every child, every child has the right to know the final destiny and bury the remains of his loved one. That's our job. So I'm not going to say until the truth of the last is found, but what we're seeing today and what we're witnessing is one of the main arguments that, of course, there's no discussion about withdrawing this lawsuit. The action, of course, or the decision to withdraw or press charges, is being brought by the governments, so the government neither this or any one in the future will believe in this issue. Because when you just concentrate on, for example, in one replica, I was saying, the number of children who lost both parents, so 203 children followed the ministry through this whole period, but when you look at today's situation that even 16 years old, it's seemingly not a big number but it's an obligation for all of us and it's a burden for all of us, even 16 children who could work, who are left without both parents are unemployed. So that's what last year's report said. So we need to gather around it, it should be a place of consensus, it should be a place we won't argue about but find solutions. I also mentioned before the legal obligation, so the law and the existing Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, and I also testified about it as a minister and as the Prime Minister who asked if you will, ordered and requested that Croatian defenders be put first in the employment of public enterprises, so those in the mostly state-owned property are certainly put first. But that provision of the law is always a rule or often not to be unfairly violated. Thus, in everyday life our relationship with Croatian defenders and the fact that they are certainly the most responsible for free independent democratic Croatia is being questioned. When we talked, here we were during the debate about the past point, we often talked about how everyone has to be equal, so that we all have to be equal. They are neither equal nor 100% disabled, nor 80 percent disabled. So, all those who became disabled thanks to the sad fact that they were where they were supposed to be, therefore in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. Look, I'm talking to you, and I hope you won't take me for an evil colleague of Djurović, who mentioned the children's records to the colleges of children of Croatian defenders, dead, missing, etc. The lowest pension, so that's what the report is talking about. 385 Croatian defenders use the institute, but in fact a much larger number of defenders, so those who have not, who have made their pension but who have been of the lowest pension. When we passed that law in 2005 on the rights of Croatian defenders, then we also decided on the minimum pensions institute. So, that defender who, in general regulations, has the conditions to retire, but he doesn't have enough internships, so he hasn't worked enough. He didn't work enough? Why? Because he was working. When he came back, there was no job, no schooling, he couldn't find a job. So the state allows him to go to the lowest pension – women at 60, men at 65. Just like you called it some kind of positive discrimination. But yeah, we decided to do that, and here's thank God no one's ever taken that down anywhere before. We decided to protect those who, here are the men who reach 65 years of life, who couldn't do as they say, couldn't get away because they were such circumstances, because a large number of Croatian defenders when they went to the defense or didn't finish certain schools, or when you look at the structure today, a large number are unqualified. Therefore, the state has given support and it is good that this has not changed and it is good that this institute survives. I would like us all to look at, please, our colleagues, and look at this table, which is a good thing that in this report, after the register of Croatian defenders has been published, a table that tells us how many Croatian defenders are in the register, means they have the status of Croatian defenders how many Croatian defenders with the status of defenders were in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. And when you look at the figures and the number of days they've spent, then you see that most of them, it means more than 81 grand that were between one and two years. But also from 4 to 5 years, 40386. From two to three years 38922. Over five years, 24835. Of course, given the number of days, the year also changes their right to share in the Croatian Defence Fund, as well as all other rights. Of course, especially for volunteers, which is logical and what is normal. So those who were two days certainly don't have the same rights as those who were four years old. And this is important once again highlighted in this debate because we have often clashed in numerous debates especially in political conflicts with prejudices, but also with insufficient knowledge of what the law, which is the rights that defenders exercise under the law and whether this law has favoured anyone, whether someone has been bought and whether the Croatian defender was any one through the rights of the law instrumented. I don't think so. And it's good to look at these numbers because the defenders came in and out of the system during the war. It is also good to look at some information about who has the status of Croatian defender. It's also a nice and interesting subject, but I'm not going to elaborate it any further now. I'll just point out that one person by whom some in the political and media circles have called one law that we've been fighting over for the last three months is that this person has as much as I've learned when the register is published because I as a minister didn't go into the register and I didn't control it, and I wouldn't think of that person having more than 1600 days in the fighting sector. And General Gotovina seems to me 1700 and something more. So these are also interesting facts when you look back and, of course, think about how everything was obtained and why the status of Croatian defenders. Therefore, these are all interesting facts but she remains. So the register is published and as you can see it is not removed from the register 100000 or 50, or 200 Croatian defenders and that's good. And I think we end this story and we don't conflict at any level anymore. At the end of the visit, and I think it's a good opportunity with this report, as the 18th November Memorial Day approaches us on the victim of Vukovar, I will remind you that Mr. Shakespeare and I have just proposed and proposed to the Croatian Parliament who accepted this as the Day of Remembrance of the victim of Vukovar. It's a moment when we all have to stop and I think it's important here from this pay phone to remind Vukovar belongs to all of us. The defenders of Vukovar came from all over Croatia and belong to all of us, do not belong to any political party, belong to any individual, and no one can defend anyone on that day and every other day, but especially to that day they come to Vukovar and bow down to Croatian defenders, Croatian youth and to all those who have laid down their lives in the defense of Vukovar but also to all those who unfortunately ended up in camps, who suffered badly. Anyone who spent a day in the camp deserves mine, and I believe your respect and deep affection. Anyone who's been captured and taken to concentration camps here in the 20th century deserves our due respect, doesn't deserve an insult. No matter how much he gets along with him. So let us try to hold hands and go to Vukovar no matter how much he agrees or disagrees today. Let us bow down and then in the 19th we can continue all these discussions that are often very constructive but often really below each level. So we accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54792	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. Josip Djakic, first replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54793	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Kosor you've well noticed that this table we talked about before about the register and participation in the Homeland War is clearly shown to all MPs now, so I can see how much when, how many women, how many men, how many in the Ministry of Defense, how much in the joint units. But I wanted to say that you figured out the key to Belgrade was the key to missing and being held prisoner. I'd say it's the biggest key and it's huge in Belgrade. And those other little keys are walking around Vukovar, walking around Borov Selo, walking around Glina, in Australia, in Germany, and the worst part is I think that even though I asked the minister that the red warrants for those keys were issued, ordered, and ours at the top of the Croatian state are calling them to mark the anniversary of "Storms" in Knin instead of asking them where is Dr. Shepper, where are those butts? These organizers of the rebellion were the keys to the missing, and only they could be sought but the judiciary was not at a time when we had exercised power today or before that it had put enough effort to figure out and force and bring in all those who knew where they were killing and where they did massacres. To sanction them and punish them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54794	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54795	Thank you very much. Yes, I am more than sure that the main key to resolving the missing issues in the archives of the hostile Yugoslav army in Belgrade is understandable, and of course it is understandable why these archives are reluctant to open to anyone and in any way because of their withdrawal, it would withdraw responsibility. And that's a fact. As for the others, about those who are walking and have committed serious crimes, I think everyone is really obliged to report first of all if anyone knows to report. The fact is that we are talking about the difficult problems and in the context of the difficult decisions that have been made in the past. One of them was the '96. You remember the Abolition Act. So, it's also a fact, it was a law that, as you remember, I believe went for the fact that some of the actions that were under way, judicial proceedings, in court proceedings, I mean, that's when they stop. However, it was part of the policy that went after the team to peacefully re-integrate the Croatian Podunavlje without new lost victims. And that's how it's done. That was indeed the wise policy of President Tudjman and I invite each of you to look, read but you can also see Tudjman's speech of '97. when he came by train of peace to Vukovar. It's a historic speech that actually directs us towards the future. And with Croatian defenders, no doubt Mr Tudjman was one of the most responsible for free, independent and democratic Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54796	Thank you. Next replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54797	Thank you. Well, there are a number of topics I could replicate to you, but given the short time I'd stick to the genocide suit that you mentioned. And I would really agree with you there, in fact, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia paid taxpayers' money to press charges against the Republic of Serbia today, but the same government of the Republic of Croatia will certainly not have the right to withdraw that lawsuit either. It's not just a matter of the prisoners and the missing that's certainly the primary question is the matter of the prisoners and the missing but there's also a question of all of our disabled, all of our victims, who are determined by this ministry, all of the people who have suffered in the war in one way or another. All those war material damages that this country and this people have been through in that war. And that the government would have the right on behalf of any form of political agreement to give itself the right to withdraw that lawsuit that the Republic of Croatia, on behalf of the Croatian people, which puts the government before an international court against the Republic of Serbia for genocide committed on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, would really like to see. I, too, am in real pain by HDSSB representatives when some members of today's government give themselves the right to even bid the issue of withdrawing the genocide suit against the Republic of Serbia for those damages and what was done during the Homeland War. It's really embarrassing even when it comes to what they give themselves the right to bid on that question. The government did, but how many government members died in the war, how many government members died in the war? So the government represents the people, and the nations are killed in the war.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54798	Thank you. We have a colleague Kosor's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54799	Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Djurovic, is not as important to him as the members of the government died in the war. The government has a duty to lead a policy that is in the interest of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Government has a duty and an obligation to take account of its action on the best interests of the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that we and the Republic of Serbia will be neighbours forever, we will always live here as neighbours, and it is very important that precisely because all the issues are better said, I will not say the problems of past issues to clean up, means that we all face history on all sides, and the historical truth is one, and that the Republic of Croatia was the victim of aggression, so the victim of aggression and this enemy former army, which was the 3rd largest military force in Europe at the time, should take this into account and that the war was imposed on us and that we had rebels in the Republic of Serbia, etc. But there must always be casualties at the centre of attention. So major casualties, seized property, stolen, robbed, etc. It's all part of the lawsuit, of course, but the focus must be these irrevocably lost lives. And that is the reason, above all, for historical truth, and as a neighbor, we will be very supportive of both the Republic of Serbia and all our neighbours on their European path. Yes, but that also means meeting the obligations and building a state as a rule of law in the fullest sense of the word. And to the rule of law in the fullest sense of the word comes when you are willing to judge amongst others the regulation of the judiciary of all who are responsible for the serious crimes for the murders above all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54800	Thank you. Next replica Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54801	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Kosor, agree with you that the key to finding the truth about the missing in Belgrade is true and that is the fact that Serbia has not even faced Serbia in the right way today. They are still not ready to admit that on their territory that the concentration camps in which the Croats were killed were brought from the Republic of Serbia and killed in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I also agree that there should be no question at all about the genocide suit before the international court because the withdrawal should absolutely not take place. I don't think we should discuss this specifically. But I would like to say something about a country that Croatia could look up to, which is the state of Israel. Israel and 70 years after World War II were persecuted and found by criminals who truly deserved to be punished for what they did to the nation of Israel. Croatia should also find all those criminals who have killed, who have damaged the Croatian people. Of course, the priority should be the Homeland War and everything that was related to the Homeland War and what preceded it. And another thing, today Croatia really seems to me to be hypocritical about its friends. In March this year Carlos Menem Argentinean president was convicted of illegal arms smuggling to Croatia. Croatia should make it clear that at that time it was an aid and rescue for Croatia if it is indeed true and the fact that Carlos Meni signed with his signature the illegal arming of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia should also say today that Carlos Menem is a friend of Croatia because he helped Croatia with one difficult moment when we are really in an unfair way forced into the embargo at a time when the Serbian army had full weapons of JNA and there we must be honest with our friend.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54802	Time. Thank you. We have a colleague Kosor's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54803	So far, no mention has been mentioned, so I think it is good to mention that we as a state, among other things, face and face the problem of indictments that are from neighbouring country, so in Croatia which was the victim of their aggression, we have been charged against Croatian defenders who participated in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. One of them, as you know, and I mention it because it was an unimaginably difficult moment in the government's 2011 leadership in general, one of them, Mr. Tihomor Purda, was arrested as you know, and ended up in prison in BiH. And as you know, Croatia has made a lot of efforts to be freed. What is symbolic in the case of Purda is that he was among other ordinary people, ordinary Vukovars who defended Vukovar, arrested after the enemy army entered Vukovar and taken to a concentration camp in Serbia. I'm not going to describe the details because it's not pretty and I didn't get Mr. Purde's permission, but we talked about it. Therefore, someone who signs a paper there has been severely tortured in the 20th century, of course, cannot be proof of anything to anyone. This is what we are talking about today, both in this report and in what all future governments should do. These things, however, are not familiar enough. Those facts are not familiar enough. Generally, for example. And of course we have the responsibility of all of us why it is not known enough, why not enough known facts not only about the rape of women but also the rape of men. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54804	Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54805	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Kosor and I noticed the same thing that the predecessors, colleagues used to say. But I would particularly draw attention to the moment you mentioned in your debate, which is the employment of Croatian defenders and members of their families. And certainly in this figure of 340 thousand unemployed is a large number of both Croatian defenders and members of their families. We need to know that a significant number of them have serious health problems as a result of war events. Of course, family members. And so, of course, this announcement of the suspension of supplies that these 1097 kunas, which do not make up a large number in total, are visible from this report. On the other hand, it should be noted that the right to supply also has widows of Croatian wartime wartime disabled unless they are the age of life. And I ask you nicely who will make them at a certain age of the day know what age it would be to hire them. And the third thing that is also to be mentioned in this place are Croatian defenders from rural areas, defenders who are eager to work, to form an exceptional good, family agricultural economy. And now because of their relations with agriculture, in such a way, many have come into insurmountable difficulties. Family farms have failed, many have hired people, and now they also come into one category of indifference and difficulty and, of course, their existence has been threatened. I think it's a question he deserves, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54806	Thank you. We have a colleague Kosor's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54807	Thank you very much. Definitely employment should be a central place in the ministry's work, as well as past ministries. I think we've been focusing more on employment projects since the first development and that the situation would be a little bit better. But you shouldn't look back now, all of these were measures that were well-intentioned towards the defenders. Of course, all employment projects that are being implemented unfortunately are mostly almost exclusively through the ministry have shown excellent results. You can't give anyone a high pension to a man who's young and satisfied, a man has to work, he needs to feel useful. And only such will of course contribute to society. But the fact of employment, I've talked many times today about public enterprises. But when you have information about children who have lost both parents and here's a report looking for a job, so they're not employed, that's what it says, that's that red light that warns us that we have to go both faster and better and more efficiently. As far as widows are concerned, I agree with women who usually lose their jobs, who are more than 45 years old, very difficult or in no way getting a job. And most Croatian widows are here at that age or above that age. So this group of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens deserves our special care.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54808	Thank you. We'll stop working now. I'm setting up a break and we'll continue at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54809	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. It is next to the HNS club and a respected colleague, Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54810	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I should like to say that the HNS Club will support this report because it is very transparent, very detailed, very professionally and processes part by piece and shows in fact how many institutions in the Republic of Croatia are making efforts and how consistently they respect the rights of Croatian defenders prescribed by this law. In the opinion of the CNS, the fact is that there is such a law, it testifies that Croatian society is still making efforts to be an orderly society in which all important things and all the important issues of the functioning of society are legally and formally regulated and formed. There are certain countries that have gone through similar circumstances in the nearer or further past that Croatia was going through in the Homeland War, without making such an effort through the existence and functioning of such a law to regulate the rights of its defenders, people who under certain circumstances protected the territorial integrity and security of citizens. So we think it's good that these things are arranged and when you look at the opening tables to further elaborated detailed tables, this report then you actually see all the coverage of this law, you see how many different situations protect the rights of Croatian defenders by trying to facilitate normal life and integration in Croatian society and how much we're trying to protect those families whose defenders haven't returned home, unfortunately. When looking at the figures in this report, it is in any case imploding the fact that the total amount of expenditure in 2012 is 5 billion 765 million and 658 thousand 953 kuna, which is true, given the overall budget of the Republic of Croatia and given our real financial and economic power, is a very respectable sum. And this is another proof that, regardless of what political options the current government has made, that every government with a duty of dignity and respect, with a duty of defence access, also testifys that this government, regardless of the difficult circumstances in which it operates, has a difficult situation, insists on an ungrateful financial situation on law enforcement. This insistence on the implementation of the laws of the Republic of Croatia would be good for everyone to understand and to realize that there are no more or less valuable, significant laws and there are no laws in the legal system of a regulated country, and for such a country, Croatian defenders are raised in '91, there are no laws that can be put on the side. There are no ladies and gentlemen, refrigerators for the law. The laws are or aren't. If they are, then the problem of their content cannot be solved by the extra-institutional way in which it has been solved and solved by some of us. With all due compassion for what some citizens of our country have been through, solving open wounds and issues are not resolved without respecting the laws. The laws in the Croatian state that I keep arranged are only discussed in one place, and this is about 500 square meters. There are no ladies and gentlemen of second place to discuss the content of the law. Polymically, yes, in public, but their content is determined there. In any case, we at the HNS are satisfied, I stress once again, what this amount of resources is being allocated and as part of this government we will insist that even in the coming years, regardless of the gravity of the situation of the people who, as Mrs. Kosor said, lost one youth on the battlefields, with more or less consequences, thank God I personally belong to those, I hold that I have had the least consequences but there were my friends who had more, much more unfortunately, and those who were most tragically finished. We simply owe it and the HNS will insist on respecting all the laws and especially this law. Someone mentioned today the Croatian Defence Register. Here were important polemics around him, and then he triumphantly concluded that everything I don't know about seven subjects showed that there were laws being played and a certain number of cases appeared that were controversial. I can't figure it out, and we can't be surprised at HNS that someone doesn't realize that an orderly society rests on principles. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is one, only one, only one found himself on the honorable list of Croatian defenders, he did not hurt us. And I personally don't feel hurt. He's the lady and gentlemen who hurt Ovcara while we're at Vukovar. That's the only one who's making fun of him. He's making fun of the Ovcari. Well, then even for a better understanding of it, I'll be so free, maybe someone's going to evaluate it with a claim, so I'll recommend that you don't go with the Ovcara protocol and the cameras. It would be good for each of us to go to the Sheepman alone. I've had that experience, and I can tell you that it's one of the most valuable experiences of my life. You go to Ovcara alone when there is no one to question and realize that positive changes in society and values stem from the truth and that we cannot lie even when it comes to the list of Croatian defenders. Because one day, this list of Croatian defenders may in a historical context have value that the Baška plate today has from our perspective. It will say who were the people who at the fate of the creation of the Croatian state carried out their positive task. And someone in 300 or 500 years will know who those people were. We don't even know today who fought under King Tomislav or who fought under the Jelacica Ban. We write something about them, we sing something about them, but we don't know anything. Croatian defenders will be known. It's a list of honest people, and those who took themselves for granted is the impertinence to walk into that list at least one, two, or three are the people who mocked the victims of the Homeland War. So then I appeal that we no longer politicize on that list without beginning or ending. Things are very clearly shown, permanent cash rights are respected, housing care, pension insurance rights, and that we do not list further rights to people with disabilities, which is very important. Rights concerning children of fallen defenders or children of disabled homeland war. He also cares about the monuments of the Homeland War, about the worthy burial of the defenders, and that is our duty. And this report from year to year since the start of this law which I repeat once again is a positive part of the law of the Republic of Croatia. It's obvious that it's respected. One of his fellow MPs also finally mentioned the Argentine president in the context of the debate on this law, Mr Menem, who suffered legally and was convicted on charges of arms smuggling at the time of the embargo against the Republic of Croatia. If we had done our job seriously then and thought about what we were doing maybe Mr. Menemi wouldn't have been charged, and if we thought about those same hoodies, the assault rifles wouldn't have walked around the military parade on Jarun because someone should have known, someone should have known that they couldn't walk in front of the tribune of all the military ambassadors and attachés and in direct television transmissions, walking weapons purchased under the embargo. So much for being serious, so much for being serious about doing business. So if anyone has a conscience for Men and society then let them question who is responsible for such dilettism and such behavior. Thank you very much. The HNS will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54811	Thank you. We have three replicas. First honorary colleague, Zvonko Milas, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54812	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Baranovic, I agree with you that I really think that we should close the controversy about the register of Croatian defenders and I would not want to think now that my replica is closing, because in the end you will answer me. I'm glad you're going to Ovcara and you've said it all the way you've been through it. So I think precisely because of what you've been through and what you've realized on Ovcara or maybe before, you shouldn't have trampled on human rights in this way, and those who stayed on the Ovcara, and all those who died anywhere in Croatia, eventually these alive. Because in order for someone to be honest and honest, there is no need for his name to be published in the register no matter what his name is, and yet these names exist and it is certain that he will never fall into oblivion, nor is there the possibility of not knowing who he is and how he defended and defended Croatia's homeland tomorrow. So it's just that people or families should have been allowed to say it out loud and clear, look, we are in favour of being on that list or we are not. If you suspect something then choose the name of the one who is not for it, put it in a context called checking, so do with it what you want after you determine what you want to establish. I mean, for one or any number of them who are going to be published tomorrow as people who I'm not going to tell a lie, but as people who don't have a place on the defense list that maybe it wasn't a good way to get rid of it like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54813	And the replica matches Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54814	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Milas. Since I've been expressing my wish and I've been appealing to the list, I'm not going to answer your section of the replica about the list, but I want to do this part about the Sheepman. What I realized on the Ovcara alone with my colleagues, some of them were friends of mine who were in there otherwise, it's that we have to do everything as a society to make such an Ovcara and such Shepherds never happen in these places again. In Vukovar, the crime was committed by primitives, human evil and cruelty. It wasn't Vukovar who destroyed a letter that was an integral part of one culture, even though it was not our national Croatian culture, but the culture of another people with whom we lived in co-existence in these areas for hundreds of years, that killed Cyrillics, killed primitives and evil people, killed people who didn't respect moral nor human norms, normal norms, people who were ready and did not respect the laws of the day. And that's why we put the law enforcement institution on a pedestal in this company of colleagues. And while the law exists, we won't be able to solve the war trauma with a brick hammer smashing over the back of the Croatian police officers of the former plastic table defenders. If we are not mature enough as a nation to understand it and if we are not as Parliament all ready to send a message to the Vukovar defenders, your wounds will be treated in an appropriate way, then we have a very bad perspective in this country. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54815	Second replica, dear colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54816	Thank you very much. A colleague of Baranovic's opened the important issue that we in the Parliament would raise, so where laws are made and final decisions are made, respecting and implementing the law. Of course, the laws that have been passed and which are in force, which have always been adopted by the majority, must be respected and implemented. We all have the right to be dissatisfied with certain laws, but then, of course, we can and must only change them in the procedure provided for, and that is Parliament. So, all the laws that we do not want to apply for different reasons, and this Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers that you mentioned in relation to the status of defenders, the status of disabled people who may have acquired illegalally, they can only be taken away in accordance with the laws. So the defenders no doubt fought for an independent state of Croatia, but a legal state where there are rules on how all three pillars of government work, so both legislative and executive, but also judicial. And it's a good thing you brought it up to Sheepchare. Yes, I agree it would be good, often also to Ovcara and Vukovar in a political context many abuse and those who were neither in Vukovar or little or once or in Ovcara, many who do not know at all how many victims were killed there in Ovcara at the largest mass grave in Vukovar in the Vukovar cemetery. However, the mention of the Ovčara and the memory of Vukovar should bind us to something that you said about being better. So, to be human, to be better and to work hard if nothing else harms one another. It's a big deal. 'Cause the word can pretty much beat a man up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54817	Time. The replica matches Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54818	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Kosor, yes, I mentioned this with the intention of provoking the belief that we should be better and that we should turn to concrete things. Someone mentioned this morning in their statement that the criminals who did, some of the criminals who did crimes, including the Ovcara, are walking freely today. These are topics that need to be discussed. These are the things to be taken for. It's not a letter, nor the fundamental right of a national minority to measure things. The measure of things is that it has been 20 years and that the institutions of the rule of law have not done their job both in the mandate of both these and those of the previous governments in which your party had the main word. Your ex didn't do the job. I apologize. It's not the work of the ladies and gentlemen, it's the measure of the matter. It's not a measure of whether someone's gonna take down one record by night today or do it over the back of four cops. We do not need this as a society, we are sending the wrong message to the world about the Croatian state which has just been created in the torments of Vukovar. We must send a message that we are of quality, that we are arranged, that we are a state of legal certainty, not a state of antagonism that will never be relaxed in this way, and not a state in which we will not as Christians forgive and understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54819	And the third replica, dear Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54820	Thank you very much. My colleague Baranovic, I will talk about the Defence Register because when we talk about defense attorneys, emotions are always there and in this hall, they were like that when the law was changed and it's nothing that isn't human. The effects, however, are not what the government may have expected. Why would I think that? Because we discussed reports on the implementation of this Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and 2009 and 2010 and 2011 etc. That's when I often heard what I was thinking and the basic motive that got me into the publication of the Defense Register. I'm going to read a statement from one of the parliamentary deputies who obviously refused to speak today because she just denied it. And he said, "The report can only be talked about if the actual number of defenders is known. 150 thousand of them have been smuggled in, whether they confess it or not to the burden of the system." It was one of the premises around which she was gathering and even a policy that she felt perhaps there was a lot of meat in it that could be caught by all those who I say whenever the talk of defenders wanted to speak nicely, and what happened? Until the list of defenders 501 thousand was published, when the list of defenders 502 thousand 688 was published, the total failure of all those who saw a policy about which a political notion should be caught. And what do the experiences say? So in the period 2008-2012 it was until the Defence Registry was published also procedures that ended with criminal charges and is equal to the ones that came after this, and we see that the figures are defeated in that segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54821	Replication response, respected Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54822	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Boric, I have appealed to conclude this debate, but it is obviously difficult to resist some temptations. I personally conclude the story of the Croatian registry once again repeating that for me it is a register of pride of the Republic of Croatia and also that if that register serves as a tool in the detection of those who falsely introduced themselves and who falsely acquired that status if we give it 1, 2 or 3 to me it is enough to show by example how and how the rule of law faces such situations and to realize that it is a matter of principle rather than a matter of quantity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54823	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the HDSSB club, esteemed counterpart Drazen Djurovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54824	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. So right away at the beginning, let me say, therefore, as regards this report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2012 our HDSSB club will support this report. This report is on the trail of reports from previous years, and as it was arranged that structurally it was no different than the 2011 reports, neither the topics were virtually nor the fundamental problems of this population have changed more significantly for years. But I'm going to try to give an accent not to repeat myself since last year to try to give some other accent I may have forgotten to mention last year. So the total amount of the ministry's expenses is set out under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, as fellow predecessors have said about 5.76 billion kuna. It should and may be worth mentioning that the largest part of that amount, however, goes to pension insurance rights and around 700 million kunas for permanent cash rights. While for all other rights to the law... it separates about 240 million kunas. So this includes housing and health care and cars and textbooks and employment and customs relief, exhumation, memorials of the cemetery, honoring the dead Croatian defenders for improving the accessibility of facilities, psychosocial assistance, cooperation with associations, markings and the like. So the grotesque of that budget or its far-reaching largest up to 4.8 billion goes to the right of retirement insurance. I will not particularly taxively list which rights are and we are before and today supporting those rights as they stand, as they are formulated towards the circle of users as they are complex. It was always a question of whether they were in line with the financial opportunities of the state but that's how it is. And we think, in fact, that when it comes to pension rights, the basis of this Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War should not even open a special topic. I will look back in view of the fact that in one of the discussions the predecessors of Kosor were paraphrasing the lowest pension here I will only briefly look back at the concept of that lowest pension. So the lowest pension there is one of the pensions that are made according to this law, they are made for those people and women who have been entitled to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, so that they participate in the Homeland War and do not make a pension under the general pension rules of the Republic of Croatia and have acquired an age. This means that people have 65 years of age and 60 years of women, and they do not have 15 years of work experience achieved in the Republic of Croatia and participated in the Homeland War. The average pension for those people they say is on average 2,980 are recognised to be 2,358 kuna to round. 2.358 kuna is really not a large pension, so it is not people who are hurt or who are making a family pension but have somehow participated in it could be a shorter period of some time but should be shorter since there are no years of employment and now they've aged and now we're giving them a pension. Whether that amount is large or small, it's small, it's always 2,000 or 2,500 kuna, it's really little money and it's hard for 2,300 or 2,400 kuna to survive one month. I can't think of a mother who's 35 years old with medium professional training, with a solid salary, and who's done a full-time job for that same amount of retirement. Why was I talking about social justice? Because we can always compare the question of what is socially just and can always ask ourselves whether a solution is just or not. And that's why every discriminatory solution is always questionable justice. If we're not going to be hypocrites. If we're going to be hypocrites, if we're going to want to suck up to certain categories of population regardless of what category of population that was, then we're always going to say that very easily. Yeah, all right. And I'm gonna say about this okay. Not because I want to suck up to anyone, but because I guess these people really don't have any sources of income. And if these people and if the ministry determines that these people really don't have any sources of income in this Republic of Croatia that they obviously didn't work in because if they did, they'd be entitled to pension insurance, then it's okay for those people who aren't wounded and who aren't disabled to have a pension of 2350 or 2360 kuna. But I would call on the ministry also to make it really clear that these are people and those categories of people who really don't have any income in this country. And they don't make any other income. I mean, let's be honest with ourselves. I don't think we really need to call anyone, live up to anyone's laws, and some people do. But let's just be fair to all the categories in this society. And let us bear in mind that the vast majority of pensioners today have 2300 kuna pensions in the Republic of Croatia, the majority of pensioners. And that's why you need to be me thinking pretty cautious when you talk about it or think about it. What this law doesn't have, not the law, but this report, this report never had anything but numbers and quantities that doesn't say anything about quality, about quality issues. It does not deal with, I said it last year and I will repeat this year, this report does not deal with Croatian defenders, this report deals with the exercise of certain material rights for certain categories of Croatian defenders. This report, as well as this ministry, which is headed by today's minister, which is not about the fame and discipline of Croatian defenders, has neither shown ambition nor in his term, nor tried to deal with the qualitative problem of Croatian defenders. It is not a material problem, we have seen this on many occasions, and we all know it, it is the base but the problem of existence, the problem of life, the problem of integration into Croatian society, the problem of participation in Croatian society, the problem of deciding Croatian defenders in Croatian society, the problem if you want the dignity of Croatian defenders in Croatian society. Let the esteemed Deputy Minister tell us which page of the Report deals with this report. And where this Report says what the Croatian Defence Ministry did in 2012 on the quality of life, position, the dignity of Croatian defenders. Except we've got a minister who fights every once in a while with defenders, a scrawny man. It was here on several occasions to mention the Croatian Vukovar Defence Station. So the Croatian Vukovar Defence Station is now making up the victims of the Homeland War, Croatian defenders, disabled, widows, in Croatia's Vukovar, so the people who were killed in this Vukovar. And we have seen how the Croatian Defence Minister communicated on this topic and on this issue. Says they don't need tickets to Vukovar. Watch out. Is that how you talk to a population that usually rises to pedestal when we need it for certain needs? Has the Ministry of Defense found enough sensitivity and identified the problems that today plague Croatian defenders and victims in Croatia's Vukovar? It is obvious that it is not, because if it were today, we would not have such social confrontation as we have on the issue of bilingualism in Croatia's Vukovar. And it's certain that the problem that exists there won't be able to solve with a single hammer, that's certainly not in any way. And they'll be able to always and only deal with the pen and the paper. It's just a question of who's gonna write and what's gonna be written and who's gonna get it all together. We have seen in the course of these events that the Croatian Defence Minister is no integration factor, which should be because he has often boasted that he is the minister of all defences, that he knows all the defenders, that this is the population he has. Like this, which one does he know, which defenders he represents? He represents this Ministry and this amount of money the Ministry has. In itself, the Croatian defence minister does not represent any defenders. And it is visible from the course of events that is happening in Croatia Vukovar that the Croatian Defence Minister, not this integration factor and that person who can establish communication because here is actually wanted, the problem is communication, the problem is talks, the problem is to seek common solutions of all stakeholders how to establish dialogue, not how to maintain positions. We also heard this interesting thesis from one of the predecessors that laws are just and only brought here in these 500 squares. I don't know if any of us are following the Croatian media because we see in them that the laws are passed at meetings when two of the biggest parties of the ruling coalition agree. It is only by this that they are sent to the Croatian Parliament for a decision on it. But here, of course, of course that normically means going differently. Therefore, as in last year's report in the report for this year, I would like to call on the respected deputy minister, Croatian defenders and the Croatian Defence Ministry to start dealing with the problem of Croatian defenders, Croatian victims, them as people, not only as recipients of a particular circle of material rights. Because the policy that Croatian defenders are a person or group who receives a particular circle of material rights is something that you have taken over from your predecessors. It would be good if we could find ways and strength to change that attitude and that policy and to start seeing these people and that community as people and community and then find part of the answer in these reports and about the problems of them as men, women, men, children and communities, and not just about the amount of money that has been delivered to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54825	Now we move on to replicas. First, colleague Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54826	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague, you're talking about the fact that in this law there's no precise idea that these are measures to improve the lives of Croatian defenders. I'd say something about it if it existed, but we didn't mention it. These are active employment policies through which 2993 defenders were helped in 2012. There are also active measures that have been going on for a long time and that have registered over 400 Croatian defenders' cooperatives, 150 thousand for a defence cooperative that gathers defenders must not be a small measure. So we see from this report that in the last year 23 new cooperatives were founded to take these encouraging measures and employ people. Through all those former cooperatives, it must have contributed to the reduction of the number of unemployed Croatian defenders, certainly contributed to the quality and improvement of life, and what you're saying about the defence minister in some things I would agree that sentimentality, sensitivity, community with those who are really suffering that he should also experience from that same middle of Vukovar being together on the side of the majority people, and not just minorities that I still consider to be under Cyrillic rules of crimes in Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54827	Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54828	Thank you. Well, time is relatively short, so there's no chance you might turn to all the items. Yes, active employment policy. As for defense cooperatives, yes, I agree with you, it is one good measure and it would be good to find additional models to further encourage and strengthen defence cooperatives. What it doesn't have, it doesn't actually have the financial effects of how much these cooperatives actually create, how much they produce, how much these new values are created. Cooperatives are something really very stimulating and good for the defense population. These other measures, these numbers stand here, how real they really are, so we're going to believe the report that they really are. It would be well known from those newly employed when they are employed and how many of them are really left to work in these jobs within a year. I hope your numbers match. I think in the defense population, there is insufficient sense of success in these measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54829	Second replica, the esteemed Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54830	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would say that my colleague Djurovic is not having a very successful day today, although he has been justified in his discussions so far, and I am allowing him to have the right to be unilateral. But the task of politics, especially the parliamentary representatives who are representatives of the citizens of the Parliament, is to lead a responsible policy that will find solutions, not lead to new divisions, to new divisions. The fact that counterpart Djurovic in his resignation was particularly biased, the defence minister called. What gives him the right to come to Vukovar? I find it inadmissible as a parliamentary citizen, and primarily as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia that any association, no matter what its name is, headquarters, not headquarters, a canary association, prohibits any arrival in the town of Vukovar. If in this way we are building democracy in the Republic of Croatia that we will give tickets to who can, who can and who will be that person who will miss, I do not think it is the purpose of our policy to lead such a policy and such debate here. Our goal here is to try to find a common solution. If there are misunderstandings, these misunderstandings must be resolved under existing laws. If the laws aren't right, we need to change those laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54831	The replica matches Drazen Djurović
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54832	Here, thank you. So when political opponents find you, colleagues but also political opponents, then it means you're successful. Because if I were to praise you, then you should be worried because it would seem like you're a failure. So, I thank you for your trouble and I feel like I'm commending her. That's when it comes to the relationship between political competitors. As far as I'm concerned, I really didn't say, so it was you who pulled it out of context around the ban, any one of them coming to Vukovar I didn't say that. Because if anyone was banned, you thought of Minister Matic's relationship And the Vukovar Defense Station. [[Intruding Stazic: No throw!]] It's a question of their relationship. Look, the minister's from Vukovar. They say he also participated in the defense there. So, he'd have to do a little better... Let's get on with it. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Intruder Stazic: Will you continue or will you interrupt here?]] I'm just waiting for them to say yes. There's people getting upset. So, I say when political opponents find you, then it means you're on the right track. Of course I'm not ashamed. Why would he be ashamed? What should I be ashamed of? The fact that I took part in the Vukovar defense myself. Which one of you took part? ... And what should I be ashamed of? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So there's nothing to be ashamed of. ... No, I'm not ashamed of the debate, but here. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So, the Vukovar Defence Centre clearly articulates what the Vukovars think, and what the Vukovars think clearly is Minister Matic, whom he says he participated in the defence of Vukovar obviously does not know and understand even though he was born there.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54833	I'm thinking of giving you a warning that for the hero of the Trpin Road you're saying that he allegedly took part in the defense of Vukovar. I won't give you a warning, I'll leave it to your conscience. Third replica, Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54834	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Djurovic, I am also deeply disgusted by your words as a defender. What you're saying really has nothing to do with common sense, so now you replicate whatever you want. So the minister you're talking about has shown that he is indeed the minister of all defences. He also went to Belgrade to pick up Maric and is trying to arrange a release for the man, i.e. a transfer to Croatia's prison. So, with what right do you judge who is and who is not the minister of all Croatian defenders. Mr. Ivić was also the minister of all Croatian defenders. He was my minister when he was a minister. You have no right to do that. Well done with your Vukovar defense, I'm taking your hat off to the floor, but I've been defending Sibenik and some other places. And you have no right to speak to any of us that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54835	Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54836	I don't see exactly why you wouldn't have the right to speak that way. ... I'm already on more than one occasion, and I'm going to do it again and again and I've never had the right to the truth or to lay it now. [[You can't hear it.]] [[/Stazić: No throw! A fellow Vidich, like this. Peace. Peace. A colleague of Vidic's.]] What I'm saying as my opinion. So I'm making my point, my judgment and my opinion, and I don't mean to convince you at all that it's true or not true. So, I don't belong, I don't belong to those who have such pretenses. I present my court of law and present it as a representative at the Croatian Parliament. And yes, you may be angry but my judgment on his work and everything else remains the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54837	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Zeljko Mirkovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54838	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I'm going to try to stick to this report and not cause unwanted tones, but I don't think this report is even substratical to us here today to sort of deal with things that aren't here in the report. A lot has been said today, I say this report is difficult to lead this debate without concrete indicators. So how about the number of those who have the right to certain rights and resources that these rights are supported. I'll try and say I'm more committed to what we haven't heard in today's debate. To begin with, I can only say so much that we members of the SDP at the club, on the Committee of War Veterans, supported this report and also as a club of representatives, we will support it here as well. In 2012, 5 billion 765 million 658 thousand 953 kuna was spent on the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, down from the year 2011. The largest share of 4 billion 822 thousand and 20 kuna or 84.67% is intended for the exercise of pension insurance rights, and the means for achieving permanent rights of 701 million 208 thousand 586 kuna or 12.15%. Other rights that participate in small shares in total assets should be allocated to housing and to the amount of 49 million 702 thousand 853 kuna or 0.87%. Employment funds of 46 million kuna or 0,80%, funds allocated to health insurance rights amounting to 28 million 799 thousand kuna or 0.50%, funds for free textbooks of 25 million 176 thousand 750 kuna or 0.43%, and funds from customs and tax reliefs of 23 million kuna. This is mostly more or less what we heard about these permanent rights, means about the extra charge and helping people supply, increased family disability, family disability increased, etc. So I am not going to repeat myself now and take up valuable time for you, but I will return to the second part where this report on one-time cash aid in 2012 has been reported, where 1,327 requests for one-time cash aid have been received, from which the Commission for one-time cash assistance has positively resolved 769 requests while 558 requests have been denied due to non-compliance with the conditions. In this way, 2 million kunas were paid to the socially endangered families of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War in 2012. Then I'd like to say something about support expenditure for orthopedic disability aids. During 2012, the co-financed procurement for orthopedic aids for 98 Croatian wartime wartime disableds from the Homeland War of the First Group was co-financed. The total amount paid for co-financing of orthopedic and other aids in 2012 amounted to a million and 999 thousand kuna. Then assign a personal car with appropriate adjustments. That's what we heard today in the report at the beginning of the deputy lady, so 93 cars were delivered in the last year, which is the total value of 9 million 195 thousand kuna. Of these, 40 vehicles are adapted to the needs and requirements of HRVI, to which a total of 686 thousand kunas were spent. Then I'd like to say something about helping the children of Croatian defenders. From the Homeland War to the present, a total of 203 children have been followed up with fatalities and prisoners or missing Croatian defenders who lost both parents. In 2012, a total of 87 children without both parents exercised permanent rights under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. 58 with regular schooling, 13 due to the inability to attract children from 15 years of age, and 16 during unemployment for the longest 12 months of regular schooling and 19 children without parental care, where they are based on regular schooling 7 due to their inability to attend 15 years of age and 3 during unemployment for the longest 12 months of their regular schooling. As far as housing is concerned, we heard this today, and there were also words on the board that the funds were not enough and that I would even say in the future if they were able to find more resources as soon as possible to find the most critical ones in the world as possible. So, there were 13 141 requests on the 2012 series. In accordance with the order set out in the report period, 286 applications for the award of an apartment or a residential loan were positively resolved. Then a project to address accessibility to persons with disabilities. In the Republic of Croatia there are legal preconditions for promoting and respecting the rights of disabled persons as well as their involvement and creating equal opportunities for living in the community. In 2012, the ministry co-financed 13 adjustments to 13 units of local and regional self-government and administrations totaling 1 million and 500 thousand kuna. I would also like to tell you here about pension insurance rights where Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families in the Croatian Pensions Insurance Institute are entitled to disability, family and minimum pension and salary compensation rights acquired on the basis of the remaining work capacity. In 2012, expenditure on pensions and pension benefits of Croatian defenders amounted to 4 billion 822 million and 20 thousand 159 kuna. In 2012, the pension was used by an average of 70,000 541 users, and the remuneration in relation to the use of the right to professional rehabilitation was used on average by 5 users per month. The average monthly pension for 2012 reduced by tax and tax was 5 296 kuna. The right to a disability pension in 2012 received an average of 58 thousand 300 users, which was 1.07% more than in 2011, and the expenditure amounted to 3 billion 566 million 455 thousand kuna. The average monthly disability pension for 2012 was 4 962 kunas reduced by tax and tax and increased by 0.80% since the 2011 pension. The right to a family pension from the total number of persons in 2012 received an average of 11 000 856 users, down from 2,02% from 2011, and the expenditure for those pensions amounted to 1 billion and 10 million from 510 thousand kuna. The average monthly family pension in 2012 was 7 thousand 038 kuna, reduced by tax and tax, and increased by 0.48% since the 2011 pension. I would also like to mention here the pensions of HVO members and members of their families. Today, there were talks about those who unfortunately did not exercise that right. I hope they make them come true soon, but I say there are those who do it right. Thus, in 2012 the pension was used by an average of 6815 beneficiaries who were recognised on the basis of a contract between the Republic of Croatia and BiH on the co-operation of the area of war-suffering rights in BiH that were members of the Croatian Council of Defence and members of their families. Then, as regards the rights and health insurance in the reporting period, the status of the institution insurance company on the basis of the properties of the Croatian defenders reached 15 thousand 316 persons, the right to the hospital treatment of Croatian wartime persons and Croatian defenders in 2012 reached 2443 cases, and the total amount of costs for that treatment was one million 708 thousand kuna, meaning the right to orthopedic and other aids that amounted to around EUR 796 thousand in 2012, then the right of Croatian defenders to receive financial compensation for their sick leave, enrollment in educational institutions to finance the costs of training courses for enrolmentment at higher schools achieved 279 persons, the right to pay back the costs of preparatory courses in 2012 amounting to 36 graduates in total of 54. 380 kuna, the right to free textbooks was achieved by a total of 18410 users, and then we have the allocation of shares from 1st January to 31st December, the Agency for the Management of State Property issued 1356 solutions on the allocation of shares without payment to Croatian wartime people and family members of the mortally injured, imprisoned or missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War in the total nominal value of 28 million 627 thousand 067 kuna. On 31 December 2012, a total of 9690 applications for the allocation of shares were not resolved. As regards the employment of Croatian defenders and we heard something about it, unfortunately the structure of unemployed Croatian defenders was registered at the Croatian Employment Service in late December 2012 as 31251 unemployed Croatian defender, which is 8.4% of the total unemployment in Croatia i.e. 3290 persons or 12.2% more than at the same time in 2011. The age structure of unemployed Croatian defenders is the highest number of unemployed over 50 years, 49.2% then from 40 to 49 years 40.6% and the lowest number of unemployed defenders aged up to 39 years or 10.2%. The educational structure of unemployed Croatian defenders was the highest person with completed three-year secondary school for KV and VKV workers of 38.4% then with completed primary school or 29.8% and with a four-year secondary school for occupation and with a gymnasium somewhere 20.6%. Without school and unfinished elementary school there were 1948 defenders with a 6.4% stake until the first degree of the university had 725 defenders or 2.4% and completed college or academy 723 Croatian defenders or 2.4%. We also heard about the active employment policy, but some measures were implemented, which showed some good results. I don't know, they were mentioned and the cooperatives mentioned some other things that have achieved good results over the past period. During 2012 active employment policy measures from the competent HZZZ covered a total of 2993 Croatian defenders. The employment of persons with disabilities from the Homeland War was also taken into account. There's something else I'd say about exhumating the I.D. and burying the victims of the Homeland War. So 32 individual and 2 mass graves with a total of 47 remains were discovered. The remains of 88 people have been identified. In addition, a total of 60 monuments marked 102 places of mass graves were placed in the marking of the place of mass graves. Also for funerals, 11 million 915 thousand 677 kuna was spent in 2012. Unfortunately, 416 Croatian wartime wartime people and 1896 Croatian defenders from the Homeland War died. The psychiatric program is also indicated in this report, providing continued psychosocial, medical assistance to participants and victims of the Homeland War. Efforts to reduce the number of suicides to raise the overall quality of life and create conditions for making the participants and victims of the Homeland War more successful in society. I would like to point out once again that the SDP club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54839	Thank you. The replica was reported by Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54840	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Mirkovic really did this statistical data as much as you listed it was quite difficult to follow at the end, but I was able to remember. But I got stuck one moment stuck in my ear when you said right to supplies I wouldn't want to take your precious time. I think this question really deserves a lot of attention because these 1097 kuna supplies are very significant for the 5567 population, and they don't take a material amount of space, and this intention of abolishing the supply will really lead to an unequal position of a significant number of our colleagues. In accordance with this I would like to say that you mentioned the right to one-time assistance and you instructed statistically, responsiblely I say that there will certainly be a far greater number of those who will seek this right and this one-time assistance, and these funds that are already starting to reduce will not be sufficient with the moment where you have spoken about persons with disabilities. So if you follow the Attorney General's report for people with disabilities that accessibility is one of the main issues for people with disabilities. So in that sense, I want to warn about these things that are very important and important for both defenders and, of course, disabled people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54841	The replica matches Željko Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54842	I am only because of the time and because there has already been a supply speech before, so I skipped it without thinking that this is less important than these other measures, or the rights of Croatian defenders to a lasting one, supply as well as all other applications that are entitled under the law. So, I'm saying, I wasn't handling anything else than I was talking about these supplies today, I just didn't want to spend any more time on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54843	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first person to answer is Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54844	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So, the review of all the rights set out in this Report on the rights of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and members of their families is simply an exact one, so the rights formed in the review sequence through the figures and everything that has been done in the financial sense so for the population that we are talking about. However, this is my second time to discuss the report, so last year and now, I saw something, and I see it last year, and here I see it in this report, so there are statements of costs that are not actually the rights of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. Therefore, the recapitulation lists some of the employment measures, self-employment, implementation of national implementation, psychosocial and health care, cooperation with the home war associations, marking of war events, anniversary etc. So, it's not really, it's not the content of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War. Therefore, this information cannot be an integral part of this report because it gives the wrong picture of the costs during that period and thus says that it has not actually been approached by austerity, reform, rationalisation as it has been said. So it's another story separate from the right that has lasted since the law went into effect, so somewhere if I'm not wrong in the '95s, '06s, but it's not exactly the content of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families. From the content work, I would mention a part of the report concerning the help of children without parental care, so specifically page 26, which I noticed my colleague mentioned others. So I have to ask kids without parental care, kids without both parents, I wonder what kind of help it is if we have 19 kids who are unemployed today. It's not clear to me at all that she can be a child to whom both members are, so both parents are unfortunately dead that in some way we can't find a job for such children. Accordingly, I will also say something about the right to hire children of the dead, missing Croatian defenders. So, we said through the law that, here I will read Article 35 that all authorities of the state administration, judicial authorities, state authorities and other state bodies, units of local, regional, so regional self-government are obliged to give priority to the same conditions of unemployment in the course of the employment of the unspecified or missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War without both parents and the child of the mortal, imprisoned and missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War without parental care. That's where I'll be. The fact is, we have no idea what was done in that part. Therefore, there was a complete lack of report on the participation of the employment of children killed, missing Croatian defenders in the bodies of state care, the administrative bodies of units of local and regional self-government but we do not know specifically whether our ministry therefore cares about everything, about the whole population as the number of new employees in... And how much these children are participating, so from this population that I've been talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For 2012 implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences 5 billion were spent, so 765 million 659 thousand kuna, which is 51.5 million less than the total amount spent in 2011. We see that the biggest reduction of rights is reflected in pension insurance, in children's textbooks. It was further received from 1327 single aid applications, with a positive resolution of 769 until 558 requests were rejected. In connection with home care, then on the 2012 list there are 13141 items and in 2011. 128866 items, which is therefore 275 requests more. And the number of positive solved is smaller by 37. This already speaks enough about the problem and how long it will take for it to be resolved especially in the situation in which Croatia is in economic terms. However, regardless of this, we hope that the next period, the following reports will, therefore, bring some indicators to 2013 in the 14th year which will talk about some kind of progress in this regard. What is really a problem with the ones I listed, that is what my colleagues before me said about the employment or unemployment of Croatian defenders. The fact is that in 2012 we have 3295 persons who are unemployed so more than in 2011 and that the largest share of the unemployed Croatian defenders in Karlovac County, Bjelovar-Biogorje, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Varazdinska and Sisak-Moslavina while the smallest in Međimurje is somehow logically already in itself. So, given the fact that in the education structure of unemployed Croatian defenders, the majority of them are primary or secondary education, and even when we consider the age, my colleague mentioned almost 50% of them between 50 and 60 years of age before me. If we're gonna talk real and open our eyes, I don't think they'll ever find a job or anyone's gonna offer them a job. I don't know what kind of job that job might be or who it's gonna be who's gonna be to them. So what we're going to do with them and what their destiny will be. In the context of this, I will also now return to what counterpart Milinkovic mentioned supplies, so how much knowledge we have of supplies, I have already said in the replica, but I did not get an answer, so here may be the deputy minister of supplies as part of the right disappears. It kind of passes to the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth in terms of minimum protection of compensation. However, seeing the criteria that a person will need to satisfy his own opinion that none of these 5 thousand and something that today are users of supplies will be able to meet those criteria. If we consider the largest number of unemployed ages that is actually an age when a person can get supplies, I just don't know what that will be, social cases we'll create a fear of an absolute category of people who literally won't be able to survive. Certainly we must pay particular attention to this figure that speaks of dead Croatian defenders, regardless of the category, whether it is HRVI or not, but speaking of disabled people, I think it may be important for the health profession or for all of us to see that the highest number of deaths in the category is 20% and 30%, therefore 30% of the damage to the body, so disabled with the lowest percentage of damage. Maybe it'd be nice to run an analysis, try to dig in and see why. I'm not saying it's bad that those who are a greater percentage of disability are smaller, but it's interesting that these are mostly categories of people who aren't exactly retired, a lot of them are unemployed and I'm afraid that there's a way of life and everything they've been going through besides what they've been going through, that it contributes greatly to the fact that they're simply disappearing. And here's to the end, I won't talk about the register, I said enough. I think that Croatian defenders are indisputable for the creation of the state and that you all share that opinion and that we should treat them in such a way, not as privileged, not as anything but simply people who have been through a difficult period of life and that we must make what remains before them easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54845	Thank you. The last one for discussion was registered by counterpart Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54846	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's something I want to say about this 2012 report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers of the Homeland War and members of their families. Someone has said a lot of quantities here today, almost nothing about quality, so really when you look at it without any comment, it's really an example that we in the country when we want to do the exact number, in a decimal, calculate everything we need, and we know how many of us a certain right, how much a certain number of users can cost us in the budget year, and this report is also a witness. Although it looks a little bit about as one accounting report from the Treasury of the State Budget under certain rights, but I say it is good that we can also plan for the next year 2014. When we talk about material rights, they haven't decreased in size, but they've fallen to the amount of money. It was also clear at the beginning of the year. at the end of last year when the 2013 budget was adopted, but also in 2011 when the 2012 budget was adopted In 2012, we had a billion and 178 million kuna in the division of the Ministry of Defence, in 2013, 40 million kunas less, a billion and 138 million kunas, and that number continues to fall. This means that, regardless of perhaps more of the rights that we have received through the amended law, material defenders still get less. But when we look at the implementation of the 2012 budget with a billion and 92 million kuna without pensions, we say that from what we had spent i.e. We didn't spend 86 million kuna. Why hasn't it been spent, perhaps the minister, the deputy, if the funds are already planned, if the rights exist or didn't need to be answered, so we're both too much or we were in need but we haven't done something right. The second topic I wanted to talk about is what has been mentioned here today, and this is certainly the Croatian Defence Registry and everything that followed first on this issue, so it was a very important pre-election promise, and it was approached at the end of 2012 and implemented. We remember those shows. These were really plays, museums of contemporary art. Every minister says I'm so, I'm so, I'm so. We shall declare it to the honorable, to the wicked. If you remember those statements and I think that the most time has been spent in the past not only last year, but also for the past ten years, and that's the fundamental issue they've been trying to share defenses on. That's why I read a statement from one of the Assembly MPs who spoke in the 2011 Report that this report should not even be discussed until we know the real number of Croatian defenders because 1500000 were smuggled into it. Today, he had no need to speak clearly, for the publication of the register itself, but also the results clearly denied him. In this country, as everything goes down every index, we only increased our number of defenders by 1600, right after the announcement. And now how to interpret it in the light of a policy that wants to take care of Croatian defenders. How do these defenders feel when they become the instrument of politics? That's what we're seeing these days. There's a group called some kind of headquarters again. I'm not gonna say that ugly word someone said, and it's not anybody. I don't think that's worthy, no matter who's right. No one has the right to defend themselves, to express their opinion on something because how to interpret the sentence that Cyrillic is in Vukovar the triumph of the Croatian state. That's what a lot of people died for. '91. There's a board on Cyrillic there if I'm not mistaken, we remember. And then it was a triumph for another country, for some other people, and today it's a triumph again. And then we defend the right of Croatian defenders to say that it is not a triumph for them, that it offends their human feelings. And then we talk about quantity, so we have a lot of rights. Did we make them? What have we achieved with the effect of 5 billion and 800 million kuna spent on that population? Is there even a policy of need to perceive this population as a cost? I don't think so. Let's see what we got on the other side. 68 years after World War II, we have 28334 fighting pensions, of which 9325 living let's say living partisans, those who have earned their right to do so because they fought in World War II and 19,000 family pensions. The cost of a billion kuna a year is equal to the budget of the Ministry of Defence without pensions. What kind of messages are they sending them? If Croatian defenders have the right to speak in this society, express their views. I think they have any way they want it. I'm saddened by the fact, and it happened today that an indictment was filed against a member of that headquarters who took down that board. He's been in prison for a year or two. He's aware and said I'm willing to go to prison for his beliefs. But what does politics do? Is there any reason in this society at all, and why we want to run away from any responsibilities that we carry especially the executive power, the Government. Why do we avoid talking about Article 8 of that Constitutional Law that clearly states when conditions are created that will not violate relations between the majority and minority peoples. Why don't we want to interpret it that way? Why do we have to put that on overnight, cause a certain reaction to a particular population? These are questions that will arise after all of our discussions and will last for sure and the next I think for a decade, and especially when we have the fact that a month ago at the address of 10,000 and nine members of the HVO, a solution has been sent to their status as a military disabled because they are not registered in the register of Croatian defenders. And then politics sends its own explanations again. He says it could cost us 60 billion kuna. So who needs stories like that? The minister says each of us's fake defenders is costing a million euros while explaining why we need a defence registry. And instead of taking off all these commitments and these millions of euros, we still get 1600 more Croatian defenders in that register. Is that defeat, then, one policy? Did we accomplish what we wanted? I think this report says that the Croatian defender is exercising his rights. Anyone who has them under a certain portion of that law, that the state may give them less than it has given them before, and that they may be reconciled with it. But to be prepared and obviously the state will react where she thinks she needs to make some policy of her own. When the minister says just for those 10009 that it's not an emergency to take their pensions but to scare them to drop the lawsuit, then we obviously didn't create a mechanism or we don't have enough good communication to solve the problem. So after all this, Croatian defenders can conclude that, I will support this report, that the state gives what it believes should be given according to its rights, that every year it will receive slightly less material rights. But I appeal to everyone that politics leaves them alone and doesn't interfere in the way it does right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54847	Five is a replica to this exhibit. First respected Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54848	Thank you. You said one now at the end of your debate a very nice sentence, you said politics should leave the defenders alone. Politics and that they will not, because politics should provide the defenders with all the rights that belong to them, politics and this Parliament. But it would be good for the defenders to let go of politics and politics. That'd be good. And that's what you're trying to do here today. Therefore, defenders have all the rights that they have as defenders but not those who do not have as defenders. And they have no right as defenders that they only think, or their associations, not defenders, that they only have a right to say about certain questions and that the only thing they think is so credible and only so can it be. They as citizens have equal rights, like any other citizen like me. And I'm a defense attorney, to be clear, but I'm not taking that right any more than I'm a defense attorney, no. As citizens, we all have equal rights and as a defense attorney we have defence rights but no special political rights. As a young man I was in that regime creeping on... when they felt that they had the right to protect everything, on this, on that, etc. I've been chilling over it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So do we need that kind of approach again... again some like... where the defenders will think about everything. They think about this problem, they think about that problem. The defenders should deal with defence issues and receive absolute support for all their rights, especially if they are disabled, etc. They have our protection and right, but not to deny us the rights to deal with general political issues and to think that's all they can talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54849	Replication response, Reverend Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54850	My colleague Jelusic, I don't think the defenders have the right to deal with certain issues, and that's still the policy that you said means. As for theirs, we have seen here today several emotions of our fellow MPs who are also defenders. Why wouldn't they have the right to say that their emotions don't accept Cyrillic in Vukovar? That it is not something that makes their lives better and contributes to the tolerance of the city between the majority and minority population. Why wouldn't they have the right to say that? Then why should the kickings accept and say so well, when you do, do whatever you want, so let the policy then let that executive say here, and we'll do just as we intend. They float down, board up, two meters down, three meters down, eight meters down. I mean, that's terrible. It is proof that there is not enough quality conversation but that someone is very insistent on carrying out what he imagined. Every smart politician, in my opinion, would at one point wonder what it brings me? And there's enough in the law, and I'm still mentioning Article 8, enough space that lasted until 2012, right until recently, so nothing happened. There was a peace. Why are we insisting on that now? And now the defenders are supposed to keep their mouths shut? They don't need to, let them say everything about every phenomenon not just that, about anything. Let them say something about the economic downturn if they're interested, and they need to be interested. They have their own associations within which they socialize, we thank God associations as much as we want, and they exercise their certain rights there. But politics must not be the one to put them exclusively in the service of what is now being done, so it is said behind that headquarters is the HDZ. And no one in HDZ is sitting at that meeting, any one. Then how's that? Is it then in the service of some kind of policy? So I think, again, it's trying to instrumentize them to show that this policy is correct. And it's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54851	Time. Second replica, the esteemed Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54852	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your discussion, you mentioned that defenders at the end like everyone else in this society have the right to articulate their opinions, ultimately their feelings and to say what they think about what is current in Croatian society. Of course, so do we Croatian representatives who have sworn to uphold the laws and protect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand we must be of assistance not only to them but to all those thanks to whom we are in this House today. What does that mean? This means that there has to be communication, that there has to be conversation, that there has to be understanding. And exactly the inaction in that sense, the non-conversation, the lack of communication has just contributed that everything that happens gets its own escalation, the escalation by stripping plates, as they say by violent means where people who downloaded them specifically belong to a family of defenders who doesn't have one today besides another who's dead is called caucasians, hooligans. I don't know if that's even the way to get some things done in society. And as one of our fellow citizens says, and with that I will end up, so they do not beat those plates with hammers for a record but beat 20 years of humiliation, injustice, shame, suffering, sorrow and pain for what happened to them 20 years ago. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54853	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54854	Well, that's why I had a little bit of a need to talk about it, although maybe it shouldn't be too much, but the fact is that it's something that occupys us daily and that we wake up in the morning with news of whether all the records in Vukovar are in place or not. As long as other societies stay with some indices, Daxes, etc. They think about other problems, the market, the value of the shares. Obviously there's some intention, no one else can convince me. Well, we all talk to defenders every day, and we're part of that population. How many of them wonder if I fought for this after all the news? Did we fight for this? We just ask this question of justification when we see what policy results we have and what politics as a group of a vulnerable group for no matter how we say how politics then directs them where it drives them, how they exercise their rights. Yesterday he tells me one I can't get confirmation that my child can intern, I have to call the ministry seven times I even have to go there to be told that I was a member of the 153rd Brigade. I can't confirm that I can put my child on these 1,600 kunas to stand down for a year. Why can't we give it to him? Why can't we do it when concessions are shared because they're not either wrong or something's not on time, so it's taking them three or four months until the season is over, of course they're nervous, they have the right to ask themselves that question, and what's turned out to be what we wanted. But that's no reason for this law to disappear or to stop applying it, but the state has to turn its story to the defenders and not channel them in the direction it does...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54855	The third line is the esteemed Josip Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54856	Thank you very much. Well, at one point you said we wouldn't be done with this story for 10 years. Well, of course we're not gonna be done for 10 years, but for the next 50 years. At one point you mentioned let's say fighter pensions, I thought here today we're talking about the Homeland War and we need to talk but what we're pulling in again let's say antifascism. Well in the preamble of the Constitution we said what antifascism did for this Croatia and what it means. But if you're gonna pull it like that, not just you, the '41 stories not to say and be '91, but what are we going to do now? That's what I'm telling you, so let's just say so myself, I don't know what kind of expression you'd use whenever I come in, then we people say what you're always talking about whose dad is the Ustasha, whose partisan, so we're all tired of it. But you don't give that story out of the naphthaline all the time whenever you get a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54857	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54858	Well, my fellow partisans are in this report writing everything, and they're also in this law if you haven't read it then you haven't read it well. They're inside you, and that's why I've only listed data from the Retirement Service which is true that after 68 years of the end of World War II we have 28334 exactly wrinkled pensions for which the state spends about a billion kuna a year and I said it's equal to the amount it spends annually on the Ministry of Defence without pensions. And nothing is wrong with that, it can also confirm that they are there in this law that they are in this report. And that's the question that's being asked because maybe that's how it's possible after 67 years we have so many people who have that pension. That's why the question arises. And then I read recently that the one who was three years old was also the youngest pensioner who was three years old in '45, and it surprised the president himself of the Union of Anti-Fashist Fighters. How could he have been three years old in '45 and now he's got a martial pension? That's what this is all about, and these are the same questions that someone needs to clear up once and for all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54859	4th Replica and Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54860	Thank you. By listening to this debate, we as a club will support this law enforcement report if it is accepted by the majority people, I do not see that we from the minority Corps have any important objections to this law. But what I wanted to say was to refer to this topic almost constantly through all the debates, which is Cyrillic. We do not, of course, dispute the right of citizens to any individual or associations to express their public democratic opinion on all processes and especially on a complex process created around the introduction of bilingual boards in the city of Vukovar. In any case, this must be the result of some kind of dialogue of democratic dialogue, not of qualified by a more difficult expression of some harsh expression, impatience or dissatisfaction by breaking state assets. The other thing I'm saying is I think there's an important environment here where it all happens. If we have our colleagues who say that the minorities by Cyrillic letter committed crimes, then we have even representatives of the government, or vice president of the government, who publicly says that the Vukovars are forced to live with those who worked on their heads, etc. The question arises whether we have created a normal rational framework for such a kind of dialogue on this serious issue? Do we have such a hard word I remember one writer said killed me by a hard word, I'm afraid this is a difficult word that kills us more and more often in some rational thinking. And the third thing I would say is the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, either we apply it or we change it or we abolish it. For all of this together, we have to have one procedure and a lot of courage.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54861	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54862	Thank you very much. I accept a part of your replica already, and indeed if we can use it as it says again in Article 8, as it says, let us assess whether this contributed to a better relationship whether we have a better situation in Vukovar nine months ago or before those announcements that we will or have now. Well, we don't need to be too smart to figure out if it's contributed. And the other question is, I haven't heard from you one time that you're ready to slow down in that part so let's say let's see if we can do it differently, no. And if you'd done the same kind of engagement at the Department of Housing and Reconstruction then you wouldn't have had that realization then you would have solved the problem of coming back and not the realization of 5% of the 265 million kuna that were to go back for those who had gone and should have returned. That's where you might have made a bigger engagement, and the flaw in this part, then that would have been credible for me. This is how politics is. Someone needs it because when someone does it at night, they obviously have a fat reason. If the rule of law puts up tables at night, then let it be done that way and solved, but in my opinion, the reaction is just as these people are emotionally expressing it and they have every right to it. And the deal, the conversation, it just now started, the post-fest after the event. Maybe if we talked a little while ago, maybe everything would have looked different. But it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54863	The last line is Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54864	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Boric. You were talking about the register of Croatian defenders and the fact that it contained 1672 new Croatian defenders. While on one side 2312 died in 2012 1672 new. I'm really wondering if it's real, if the new certificates have been printed, where they came from, and... Especially singled out on the new register to see who the defenders are now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for this constitutional law and the talk about it, the Chirilice in Vukovar, so I'll read it to make it perfectly clear to everyone again. "The provisions of this constitutional law in Article 8 of specific laws governing the right and freedom of members of national minorities must be interpreted and applied with the purpose of respecting members of national minorities and Croatian peoples for the development of understanding, solidarity, tolerance of dialogue between them.". This is clearly stated if the majority of the Croatian people there can not be neglected, can not be shrewd by constitutional law, can not be offended, can not those who have been abolized and cannot be abolized, if they have committed a crime, the abolism does not mean that those who have bled their hands walk through Vukovar, Borov's village and are not processed. That doesn't give anyone the right in any law. And be aware that we will insist and demand from the state's attorney's office as well, but we will ask for a lawsuit... which is funded by the Government, which deeply offends the moral feelings of every Croat and Croatian man by calling us all Ustashas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You'll also get a lawsuit for making a mistake with the state money in your Serbian news.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54865	Here is a colleague, Boris, who has been announced to you because you insult the Croatian people. Answer that replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54866	As for Mr Djakic, as far as the defence registry is concerned, here is one statement by Minister Matic before the publication, "Publishing the register is a fundamental condition never to question defence rights again, we need to extract the weed from the cereals.". And all the time, and it didn't just last two years or a year, but for a whole decade, that story about overnumerous or false Croatian defenders, it was this weed that needed to be pulled out of the grain, and it started out again, it was a play, a real show for the people, and people were expecting, we had in the first four hours half a million clicks on the register, the servers fell. Where did that end? It ended, according to the data of about 1800 applications, of which 600 and 700 were immediately rejected, meaning unfounded, 1100 in the procedure and 30 criminal charges. Before the register, before the publication, we also had the proceedings for a period of four years of reporting 1,000 people with 6 hundred applications and then there were 5 criminal applications. We will have to conclude in the end that, after the publication of the register, this government has managed to find four false defenders if all procedures go right, means four. And we're listening to explanations that it's enough and one to cast a shadow at all. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54867	The closing word belongs to Deputy Secretary of Defense Mrs. Vesni Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54868	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the honourable MPs and the honourable MPs. This debate, which was very constructive, highlighted the principle of legality and the principle of legal certainty. Therefore, this report shows that the Ministry of Defence and all other public legal bodies have implemented the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families in accordance with the law. So nothing went beyond the law. Even this article 42, which speaks of declaring a zero solution to those Croatian wartime wartime invalids who have failed to achieve it, means in accordance with their participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. 10009 solutions that are not at the expense of therefore recognised wartime military disabled former members of the Croatian Council of Defense will be declared invalid. They're not at the expense of permanent rights, so they don't lose anything with that declaration. Their pension rights are not caused by these decisions on the status of a wartime military invalid since those pension rights were established in '96, '97. the year when the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers of the Homeland War and members of their families was valid, which did not require recognition of the status of a wartime military invalid in order to achieve a disability pension. As far as supplies are concerned, therefore the guaranteed minimum fee to be introduced next year will also apply to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. How the defence ministry will protect the social security of those Croatian defenders who, possibly because of censorship, will not exercise the right to a guaranteed minimum fee. We have already provided, or have sufficient resources for one-time cash compensation. We will change the rules on one-time cash compensation so that we can ensure social security and such Croatian defenders. It was said through this debate that qualitative data prevailed in the report and lacked quality. However, some conclusions can be drawn from the figures. Article 36 of the amending law requires the Ministry to implement the following programmes and projects: National programme of psychosocial and health care, Programme for the treatment of Croatian defenders, HRVI, Life-quality improvement programme, problems of professional training and employment of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, accessibility resolution project and the like. So the report also shows all these programmes implemented by the Croatian Defence Ministry in order to protect the dignity of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and promote the value of the Homeland War, as well as protect their social security and in some way protect the health of Croatian defenders. When you look at the report, there were 44972 intervention centres for psychosocial assistance, so they specifically visited the Croatian defender from the Homeland War, talked to him, gave him psychosocial assistance, instructed him if he needed to solve something in the bodies of public administration and so on. They put someone in a health care facility if necessary. So it can't be said that there are no qualitative data from the report because they can just be read from the figures. The Ministry of Defence also works on the health status of Croatian defenders and after research on Croatian defenders' improvement is carried out every year for systematic checks and those of the most vulnerable groups of Croatian defenders. This year, we will send for a systematic review of 415 CROMACs that have acquired this status from the foundation of captivity. As for receiving Croatian defenders, communicating with them, the Ministry of Defence may be the most open ministry in this government. The defence minister has an open line every week with Croatian defenders who can talk to them, daily receives Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, and I was also personally present at the Ministry of Defence and in Vukovar when he spoke with members of the Vukovar Defence Staff. So, as far as the Croatian defenders are concerned, I think the Ministry of Defense is doing it really in accordance with the law and there's nothing to complain about. The register of Croatian defenders was not published as you know that it would determine who obtained this status as a Croatian defender in an illegal manner, but the purpose of the publication of the register was to protect the integrity of the Homeland War and promote the honour and reputation of Croatian defenders. If so, and therefore daily and we are receiving complaints that a certain defender has acquired the status of Croatian defenders against the law, there is a hodogram of conduct, it is also referred to the Ministry of Police and the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, in order to eventually see whether there are certificates issued in an illegal manner and whether this Croatian defender or acquired the status of Croatian defender or the status of HRVI in an illegal manner. Only in the renewed procedure if the illegality of certain records, confirmations can be established and such a solution can be abolished. The Ministry of Defence has been working most recently on these self-employment projects, the employment of Croatian defenders, the National Psychological and Health Assistance Programme, promoting cooperatives that are one of the most positive stories in the Ministry of Defence because the actual recognition of HRVI status is already a closed circle, as well as recognition of the status of members of the family of the deadly Croatian defenders, so that there are actually few users who can enter the system because the request could be submitted for recognition of disease-based status until the end of 2005 so that we may have status recognised after the rulings of the administrative court. As far as HRVI status is concerned, they were also able to submit requests by the end of 2005 so that the circle was closed. So we will continue to work on promoting the value of the Homeland War, promoting honor and reputation of the Homeland War, psychosocial and health assistance of Croatian defenders, and in due course if we manage to secure funds from the European Union we are working on intensively, we will also set up veterinary centres in areas of special state care so that it will be one project and employment of the population from that area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54869	We've registered three replicas. First, the esteemed Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54870	Thank you. Mrs. Nadj, we've known each other for many years, and I'm going to ask a quick question just to be clear with myself. You said that a single aid regulation would be amended, if I understood correctly and that the funds would be around that way, so the supply as a category disappears and would thus allow people who were on the supply to continue to participate in order to maintain some sort of material care in this regard. Does this mean that the supply as a category disappears to change the law, i.e. whether it means that if these people get a change in the regulation, I don't know what it's going to call for that help whether it's going to mean that it's going to be protected by law, or whether it's going to depend on not knowing the well-being of any government, or whether it's going to separate part of the money from the budget or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54871	The answer to Mrs. Nadj's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54872	So the minimum fee is still guaranteed, will be from next year, but no censorship has yet been established. So, if the censorship is different, or more unfavourable for Croatian defenders, and they will not be able to achieve guaranteed minimum compensation, we will bridge it with one-time cash aid. Therefore, the single-money aid regulation will change in a way that precisely those Croatian defenders who will not be able to achieve it if the censorship is more unfavourable for them will be able to achieve that one-time cash aid. Thus, we will protect the social security of Croatian defenders. We've had so far in supply as well as property censorship and income censorship. This will guarantee a minimum fee but some simulations even Croatian defenders who have more members of the household could also receive a larger guaranteed minimum fee. I mean, that's what we'll see when we see what a census is going to be. In any case, it means the social security of Croatian defenders, who would eventually fall out because of the censorship, we will protect them with one-time cash aid.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54873	The second line is Vice-President of the House Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54874	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Deputy Secretary of Defense. Well, on the replica, I was actually encouraged by something that I think is important to read from this report, both for all of us here and for the Croatian public who, of course, is not here or present because there is no more direct transmission, and there are no journalists. However, I think it is important to say one more time two important data from this report. One, there was a lot of talk in the public about a huge number of false defenders, and it was such a mantra that had been going through the media for months and even longer, that it would actually be the result that out of 501 thousand six defenders before, so this increase in the occasion of publication turned out to be actually only 30 applications, criminal charges, so because of potential false defenders. So over half a million thirty. And yet another piece of mantra was, swept through the media, it was said incredibly about the huge amount of fake Homeland War people who had gotten that status in these and those kinds of ways, etc. And yet the data suggests from this report that when a 2189 revision was actually made, in only 7 cases, the commission was not in agreement with the evaluation of Croatian Pension Insurance Institute experts, i.e. translated into plain language, a certain doubt was raised whether it was indeed as originally determined. Therefore, it is only important to say the figures to make it clear how much that media noise was really just noise and emptyness, not truth and data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54875	There's no press because they're probably preparing a report saying we're not here. But let's hear the reply to the replica of Deputy Minister Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54876	As for the Committee for the Review of Disability Assessment, therefore this commission does not revise the assessment of the disability of Croatian military disabled people in the way you understood it. So, when an authorised expert determines that disability is related to the Homeland War, he then submits his findings to the Committee for the Review of Disabilities Assessment appointed by the members of the Committee by the Defence Minister. Therefore, the commission may either agree to this finding or may return it to an authorised expert. Therefore, the Committee for the Review of Disability Assessment cannot determine the illegality of any status in this regard. The fact that there were only 30 applications taken into account and which will be processed will know that there were actually no elements for criminal charges. If there were no elements as we have concluded that we are the rule of law, we cannot go into renewal. The renewal of proceedings may take place after three years only when we have a valid solution to the criminal offence. Therefore, there is a statute of limitations, and we need to make a valid decision that someone has committed a crime or that it is a false document or a false statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54877	The third line is the esteemed Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54878	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, ma'am, you've been talking about protecting the health of Croatian defenders and I'm the first intercessor who certainly wants this protection to be as good as possible, because I have been personally professionally testifying to the fact that the health of Croatian defenders has been violated. You spoke statistics in systematic examinations which, of course, can't do us any good because every year, the number of malignancies with the underlying ones is higher every year. But that's why I want to warn you for one moment. If we go from a fundamental definition of health, I will repeat again even though I am sometimes bored that it is a complete mental and physical social well-being, that this experimentation of yours first with supplies and these social rights, raising censorships either in one way or in such a way that it certainly contributes to the social uncertainty of defenders and, of course, this is a disease. Don't worry that these supplies aren't large in the light of the wild cost, at high prices, they certainly won't be. This is all I am reading my intention to reduce the number of users of these supplies. I would like to say again in this very difficult situation in this place is the Croatian defenders, whom many in rural areas, in rural areas which have been extremely affected by the health, who have come, formed their family farms, agriculture has both broken down and subsequently become ill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54879	And this replica corresponds to Deputy Minister Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54880	I agree that the amount of supplies is not large, 1097 kuna and 58 limes is not a large amount. But the guaranteed minimum fee will be for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so it will be unique for everyone. Croatian defenders are not an island in this country, and as I said with a one-time cash, we will help protect anyone who cannot achieve a guaranteed minimum fee. Some will receive a greater even guaranteed minimum fee after these simulations that we have conducted or in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, some will receive even more guaranteed minimum compensation if they have more members of the household than they have been provided. So I think that the social security of Croatian defenders will not be compromised, especially in rural areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54881	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on this agenda point, and this report will then be voted upon when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54882	Report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2012. The debate on the report is closed. In line with the proposal of the War Veterans Committee as a home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2012. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted unanimously by 116 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54883	We would now move to the next point, which is - Report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War 2012; Reporter is the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War based on Article 9. Law on the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. You've received the material. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received reports from those committees at the session. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Here you go, doc. Ante Nazor, Director of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54884	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, Madam Deputy Minister. There is no need to read the entire report, I would just like to point to some of the most accurate ones in this report. Of course, as every year, we continued to collect and arrange material with publishing activity. What's the paper this year is the three employees of the center doctorate. The topics are peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Podunov, from counterpart Ana Holjevac Tukovic, and counterpart Slaven Ružić and counterpart Janja Sekula were doctored on the issue of Republika Srpska, i.e. Western Slavonia, which was under occupation and the government of Republika Srpska. This year, i.e. last year, the centre printed new 7 books, two of which are in English and one catalogue. We have prepared five exhibitions and have enriched our library for new books so that the library center, which is very important now has more than 1050 titles of books related to the topic of the Homeland War. Last year we scanned 700 thousand pages of documents, which is very important in order to protect the material and make it available to the public and that it can then be handled more easily. Of course we also worked on gathering documents for the defence of Croatian generals in The Hague. As last year, I spoke after the first-degree verdict to General Gotovina and Markac, and this year I am speaking after the first-degree verdict to six Croats from BiH and as the director of the institution dealing with the collection of materials and research of this problem cannot say a few words about it. I have already publicly said that I am ashamed of every crime committed by members of the Croatian forces against Bosniaks, Muslims or Serbs in general. Neither the crimes of members of the BiH Army or of the Serb forces against Croats can reduce the responsibility of individuals or groups of crimes they have committed. At the same time, I am proud of the vast majority of Croats who have given their hand and helped Bosniaks and Muslims at the most difficult times in the war in BiH. I'm proud of my fellow countrymen who helped and gave them refuge, all those who treated them in those moments. What I want to say as a scientist, and given the facts, I cannot accept the thesis that Croatia is an aggressor to BiH. On the contrary, when you look at the documents, when you look at chronology, the question arises what would have happened to BiH if it hadn't been for the Croats and if it hadn't been for Croatia? That's a question to ask. When I talk about it, I would like to stress that by defending their homes in the internationally recognised state of BiH, Croats in BiH and members of the HVO have defended both the integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. If the enemy forces had passed the Lithuanian battlefield, if they had breached the Croatian defence line towards Neum they would have occupied not only part of BiH but also the south of Croatia and I must stress it. Or if the forces of the BiH Army in Operation Neretva 93 had come to Neum in that space, there would no longer be Croats and the question is what would happen to southern Croatia. These are things we must always stress when we talk about everything that has happened in BiH. What I do point out is because in public the wrong picture is created that our centre works on the list of dead, missing Croatian citizens, so not only Croats, but also all others who were on free territory, either on occupied territory of the Republic of Croatia. Our center actually took over the databases that state bodies, state institutions worked before the center was established. For your information in the database that speaks of the deceased or killed persons on the free territory of the Republic of Croatia, the name and last name of 12 thousand 444 persons is entered. It's just that part of the data is now in the update phase so we'll probably be that number is going to be something different, but not significantly different. The occupied area of the Republic of Croatia is therefore mainly about persons of Serbian nationality we have in the database 6 025 people. We know the ways in which they died, the circumstances in which they died, the status in which they were at the moment of their death, and we're still working on it. It's a simple obligation to the victims, and we'll solve those databases. It's hard to tell when, but during this year, I believe that at least the defense database will be resolved by the end, and then the civilian victims and this rest will probably be solved for the next year. During last year we participated directly as lecturers, as speakers at 97 promotions, the stands, exhibitions, so we were very active. What is very important to us now and what I did not mention in the report on the work is the question of the Croatians from Vojvodina and their suffering during the Homeland War because there is little knowledge about it in the Croatian public. The same way we participated, and by the end of the process, the realisation has already started to act in a similar centre as ours in Croatia in Mostar for the Croats from BiH. I think it is important because a lot of misinformation is a lot of what is unknown and I think that Croats in BiH as well as other peoples in BiH must have one such scientific research centre, its archive, and I think then the truth about the BiH events will be much clearer. Here I would like to thank Minister Matic, who has given us his hand and who has helped us to bring this centre to life but I believe that Croatia should continue to pay full attention to it so that he can actually live. As far as software activity is concerned, we share the fate of other archives and with what we have obtained for this year we can bring this program to an end. I am sorry that at the beginning of the year our centre was released from one level in some symbolic way we were no longer at the level where we were named in the conversation with Mr. Šipus and Ms. Minister's assistant promised to return it, it was written and done so that I believe that everything will return to the things that were at the beginning of the year because it is very important for simple message that the importance of the Homeland War for the modern Republic is very large and that this is one of the special periods in Croatian history. I thank you for your support so far, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the old board of directors or members of the old board of directors with whom we have worked for 8 years and who have been helping me and with their suggestions have contributed to the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War doing as it has done so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54885	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on this exhibit. She is the first to be the respected representative of Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54886	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, your last sentences, Mr. Nazor, encourages us that some things will still be properly evaluated, so we hope that what we have promised the ministry will come to pass, and there is also a representative of the ministry. But I congratulate you on your courage to be busy with the truth, because what you do is indeed commendable. Even your media performances also have a significant echo in defending the truth and everything that has happened and, of course, it is unacceptable to say at all that the Republic of Croatia has committed aggression against neighbouring BiH because it is simply not true, even in light of the events of '91 could be said exactly the opposite. BiH has been used as territory to attack Croatia. The most recent example is a concrete attack on Dubrovnik. When the village of Flat Place was leveled, the part that is part of BiH was then the political leaders from BiH said it was not their war and that they were not interested, and the village of Ravna was leveled because the Croats lived in it 100% of the Croats was leveled to make it easier to reach positions with which they would attack further Slano and block the city of Dubrovnik, etc. It is very well known to you but perhaps unfortunately the wider Croatian public is not so much because it is about detailed points of attack on Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik area. After that, both Slani and Dubrovnik coast were robbed, on the other hand Konavle by Montenegrin troops, etc. So it is an absolutely unacceptable thesis that unfortunately some high-ranking politicians in the Republic of Croatia have staged, so we can say exactly who placed it, the current foreign minister, Mrs Vesna Pusic, that Croatia has made an aggression on BiH. Therefore, your role in this Memorial-documentation centre is extremely important in order to truly defend the truth about what happened during the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54887	Thank you very much. I'm just asking that we stick to the weather. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54888	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here we haven't talked about it, but like my colleague Matusic, I also join what you said, so I share your thoughts about the war in BiH, however, not to speak but simply to stress the importance of how important it is in general documentation from the Homeland War is especially because of controversy in the war in BiH, therefore because of all the events that were there, although it is clear that because of the arrangements, the availability of the building, etc. It will take some time and years to get a clear and completely objective picture of everything. And in addition to that, you listed a few details as well as my colleague Matušić, I will also say that the vote by the Croats is precisely for a referendum on BiH independence on 29.2.2009. was crucial in general for independence, that it was 7.4. Croatia among the first to recognise BiH as an independent state, that the RS troops participated in the defence and release of 5 thousand kilometres around Bihac where it could have happened if it hadn't been for this new Srebrenica and that I'm not talking about refugees and all those events when they came to Croatia, etc. So this should be repeated, spoken objectively, reasoned so that all those who come after us will have the truth about what happened in the 1990s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54889	Thank you very much. And now we'd like to move on to the debate, before the Committee's rapporteurs take their word? It is. On behalf of the Committee on War Veterans, honourable representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54890	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian War Veterans Committee at its 12th session held on 2 October 2013 discussed the report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War 2012 delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War by an act of 19 July 2013. The Committee held the discussion as a parent body in accordance with Article 91(1) of the basic Regulation. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the act in question. Introductoryly, the director of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War presented the main features of the Centre's work in the past year. The Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War was founded in 2004 as a public scientific institution, a specialized archive with the task of collecting the collection, storage and professional and scientific research of materials from the Homeland War. In 2012, the centre continued to work on collecting and protecting archive materials, publishing activities and cultural education work. It continued to invest in the training of its employees, which is a prerequisite for talking about the Homeland War and writing professionally and reasonedly. And a few English works have been done. The total revenue of the centre in 2012 amounted to 3 million 548 thousand 135 kuna and is higher than the revenue of 2011 thanks to the higher own revenues of the centre. The expenditure for the observed year is 3 million 416 thousand 934 kuna. And they are smaller by 182 thousand 370 kuna compared to the 2011 expenditures. The total result of the business centre in 2012 is positive and is 439 thousand 295 kuna. Along with the transferred surplus income and receipts. The members of the committee in the debate stressed that in a short time with relatively few resources and people had been done a lot to collect, systematise relevant data and documents from the Homeland War. It is pointed out that the issues of the Homeland War should have a scientific and documented approach with all the causes, causes and consequences. The establishment of a memorial-documentation centre in Mostar was supported and the need for material and financial assistance was highlighted by the Republic of Croatia. Issues from the Homeland War should be attended on national television programmes both played and documented. Easier availability of materials for the staff of the centre should be regulated. And after the debate was held, the Committee decided unanimously with 9 votes to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Assembly which accepts the 2012 report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54891	Thank you very much. Then we'd move on to the debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the SDP Club will also be spoke of by distinguished representative Josip Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54892	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, Deputy Minister, the Honorable Director, colleagues and colleagues. No matter what the principal tried to make it short, it should be. So his report is very exhaustive, only the financial report is about 100 pages away, which actually shows the seriousness that this center is taking, and that's the way to write the report. Well, here's when I mentioned the financial report, to start with the financial report, a colleague named Djakic introduced you to incomes and expenditures. It is here to be commended or to say that it is good that the institution does not expect only donations, donations, contributions from the state but also to make its own revenues. That this year has reduced its expenditures and thanks to that, it is a positive business for its own revenues and transferred profits. Therefore, in these difficult times with the same capacity, it can be saved and with a reasonable business policy, especially in the part of the achievement of its own income, it can be successfully and positively done. However, the idea of this centre is normally not just about financial business, but I repeat, it is nice to have these institutions and to take care of it. Unfortunately, even when reading this 2013 report, the impression cannot be taken when looking at the time sequence of the establishment of this institution, the founding law was passed only in 2004, the appointment of a VD director was in 2005, the beginnings of work were in 2006 and some more serious work since 2009. It is evident that the work of this institution is delayed in view of its importance in the promotion. I especially stress here the scientific truths about the Homeland War. That's why it was due shortly after the war to start this institution because 10 or 11 years is still too long. And as you can see from these replicas that were sent to Mr. Principal, these questions might have been raised if we were going somewhere in '97, '98. Perhaps they would not be placed now but would be explained, scientifically processed and would therefore be naked facts, i.e. facts. And I'm saying that this is too long primarily because of the very meaning of the Homeland War because after 10 years after the war, I start to work more seriously on the subject I say it is quite late especially because native, that is, the perception of the war in the Republic of Croatia is important, so the very volunteer of the Homeland War itself and citizens are always interested and sensitised when stories are told about the events from 1991 to 1995. It is obvious, too, that I am pleased that the centre is recognised as an important scientific institution for the study of the Homeland War and, as such, primarily through archival and publishing activity, an important factor in interpreting the meaning and role of the Homeland War both in our country and abroad. I particularly welcome the publication of documents and memorial buildings in foreign languages. It is also evident from this report and from last year that in a short time with relatively few human resources, I think there are 19 employees, done a lot to collect and systematize relevant data and documents from the Homeland War. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to give you an example that's in the report. In 2012 the total was digitized, so 713 thousand 825 pages were scanned, which is 458 thousand pages higher than during 2011. So on average, he scanned 1955 pages a day, 2855 pages a day and a half regardless of the difficult financial situation, I hope that this trend will continue in 2013. I would also like to extend the publishing activity here from the cycle of the Republic of Croatia Homeland War. The 11th and 12th books were printed in 2012 and 13th and 14. This is about documents from an archive building called the so-called archive building. Republika Srpska Krajina. Why does it matter? It is important because this archival structure in many ways will shed light on the facts and doubts about who started the war in Croatia, which were the intentions of the aggressor and how the war ended. In this way I am convinced that the foundation of the Homeland War will have a scientific and documentary approach with all the causes and causes and positions that are always necessary and necessary when spreading the truth about the same. ...I'm going to step away from this scientific approach, namely we're witnessing that on every newsstand where we buy the daily press we'd say a real flood of books or books that look back on issues from the Homeland War. It's about my truth about something, my vision, my battles, so there's a variety of topics and events that, with their approach to the subject, are mostly personal visions, often uncritical. A review from various angles, but almost always the point of view of their authors who still require science, so to speak a critical parchment that would point to the inexplicable and incorrect data in them. From personal experience, I've been following this stuff a little bit right now, you've only got one relevant magazine, I'm not going to advertise it here, which comes out once a month, and it deals more seriously with the issues of the Homeland War. Here is Mr. Nazor and his associates taking part in topics from that magazine, and I would particularly like to apostrophe the role of HRT here because I believe that the issues of the Homeland War deserve a much better treatment and that is what it says in that received time. So it's not going, like Friday or Tuesday night after the journal. I'm not gonna talk about New TV and RTL because I don't pay the subscription so I don't care about their series, it's a taste thing. It's a matter of taste, but we can insist, here and we suggest here from the constituency booths that they get a little more involved and there's more of the Homeland War on HRT in prime time without talking about documentaries and movies. I feel like we're missing it. I hope, then, that with increased engagement, we will still make up for lost time. I therefore support the request to increase the number of employees necessary, and given the size of the work, I am not therefore professional enough to assess how many are needed. I regret that this year the report does not state how many of these are needed in terms of the size of the work, so we are kind of discussing it. And through this report it is evident that the centre is doing both studio and important work, that there are great efforts... books and documents related to the Homeland War, and that the centre also actively participates in the part of communication with external users. 181 requests have been processed making legal beings of natural persons. Especially happy that we helped, helped or assisted in the defence of Croatian generals in The Hague and individual Croatian generals from BiH before the International Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. Here I support this and in this part this establishment of a centre in Mostar because in this way we will not only shed light on some facts relating to the war in BiH but also help to shed light on the truth and on our own Homeland War. So despite the apparent delay in the start of work, a huge and commendable job has been done, and therefore the SDP club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54893	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. She is the first to be respected representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54894	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what we heard on behalf of a respected colleague's club, and I'm glad he noticed that the Homeland War on HTV is weak or unrepresented. It's as if there's less room for events than for glorious days behind us, days of relief operations, as well as days of suffering. Recently, there was a memorial in Kusonjam, not a word, not a announcement, not a trace in the Dnevnik or on the show, while previous years were always shown a bar segment of this masculine act of planting an explosive device in Pasonam in Pakrac, of which 3 died, 18 seriously wounded, and before that 20 massacred and killed in '91. A year. Croatian television as if it wasn't public television. I'd understand if it was commercial or some other television. There are all available materials in the documentation center, and there are also in its archives. Why don't they use them, I don't know. Is it really necessary to darken the pages of both our hard and sad, but also the glorious past? I'm glad to hear it from you that you noticed and saw that something is going wrong on Croatian TV.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54895	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Josip Bencic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54896	Dude, I said he didn't have enough, and what he's got isn't in the right time. It was mine, but I'm saying it's all tied up and maybe with the work of this center. I especially stress that late beginning. But you're right about this part not having enough. You're right about that. And I'm going to say it one more time to make it even better, so that's what these documentaries are especially in our so-called. Received by it, so on Monday, Tuesday already as television fits but in the evening. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54897	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54898	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague, I must say I agree with the whole part of your exposure on behalf of the SDP club. It also asked me to rephrase this to you about Croatian radio television, but actually to agree with you. In addition to saying that there are not enough of these contents, I must also tell my colleague that we too bear responsibility for not discussing it at the right time in the right place. Because the respected colleague and after this addition to the agenda when we discuss valuable 2012 reports, reports from the Croatian Radio Television and the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council that need such suggestions as you said better to make more of such content in potentially better terms with quality partners is still 60 and 61 places. And not for 2012, but for 2011, and for 2012, there is no sign of these same Croatian broadcasting bodies, so it is very good for you and I to agree that this is very good. However, there is no here, we do not see Mr. Vice-President in the Croatian Parliament exactly those who would give us these suggestions as a valuable colleague could. And because we insist every time we supplement the agenda nicely to the point that they're contagious, we push 20 more places down, so they've never been able to climb over 50 points of the agenda, and they've been on the agenda for a year. And as long as that's the case, as long as we're gonna appeal, it just won't be the right address to direct it. That's what I wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54899	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Josip Bencic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54900	Dear colleague, normally let's say that you agree that you have no objections to the report, and even on the Committee on War Veterans, they were all unanimous, unisoned according to this report and there is no big policy here, any big debate. But please, here's your part, this part where you're talking about the points that HRT is going to be on the agenda, but I still see some way that we're leaving the topic again, that we're leaving the topic as we've been leaving and in these first two reports, so let's just give it a little focus on this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54901	And the last replica is the respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54902	Dear fellow Bencic, I was offered your good analysis of the financial report. Indeed, it is rare that an institution delivers a report of this quality to the Parliament. You also detected some problems. And the big problem is that the HTV doesn't have enough, you said there aren't enough documentaries and movies, but there's no truth either, and the truth is what little films were made certainly didn't use the center's documentation, but it's more based on arbitrary interpretation of historical events and the counterfeiting of even historical events, even mocking the Homeland War. It lacks the seriousness of HTV when it comes to the Homeland War. But fortunately we also have young intellectuals, responsible and capable, loyal, dedicated to science and scientific methodology and truth like Dr. A view on which we can build both Croatia's future and Croatian optimism. Because we're sick of quasi intellectuals with shiny shoes and suits, who are dedicated only to bonuses, and I can only congratulate you on your assessment of this report, and add that we can be grateful that at the head of this center is dr. That's a good Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54903	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, the next word will be taken by the esteemed representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54904	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Director of the Centre. So I will start by saying that without thinking as last year, the Croatian People's Party club will be pleased to show its satisfaction and accept the proposed report on the work of the centre. We also do not hide the satisfaction that our comments that have been suggested in the 2011 report that the centre has accepted, which means that we in the club have thought well about important segments of the centre's work in its research scientific work. I wouldn't be too long here with the way it's organized, the way it is. The government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Culture, is known to have established a Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre with 19 employees. What we in the Croatian People's Party Club particularly welcome is that the director has made sure that among these 19 employees and one person with physical disabilities, this is also part of the application of the law of the Republic of Croatia that persons with physical damage have a place in society and that they can make a good contribution. Here I would say on behalf of our club that we are particularly pleased that the work of the Documentation Centre is accepted in the public of the Republic of Croatia and that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia is aware of the exceptional importance of what this centre means for the future, for the past of the Republic of Croatia and for the truth, it has been happening in the Republic of Croatia since '91. '95. A year. What is important always to note is that the Documentation Centre is a public-science institution that collects, preserves, investigates and presents the construction of the Homeland War to the public. I believe that with the way so far run by the director of the centre, Mr. Vladimir Nazor can be any citizen of the Republic of Croatia. ... Oh, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ante Nazor. If you weren't from Djakov yet. Well, he's still a capacity person. Here, I say an apology when you have a familiar last name then it may happen to change your name. Here we go again, Mr. Doc. Dr. Ante Nazor, who happily draws origin from the same city that I am from, will probably be easier to forgive if I misread it. What we as a club particularly point out is that it is important in researching events and collecting buildings in this always have an exceptional objectivity and these are one of the most important conditions of writing and interpretation of history. We are pleased that this centre has shown a high dose of scientific professional work in its work since 2006. That it is an institution, that it is an institution in the Republic of Croatia whose position is held, whose research is appreciated and our wish is to keep this centre at such a high level and beyond. Because I would always like to and appeal to this high-quality work of this scientific research centre remain at this level that you are not allowed to with any poor judgment or involvement in any work to destroy the integrity of this significant institution. Because you know, you can have 100 excellent scientific papers, 1 paper can be ruined. So please and I want you to keep that level as high as boredom with quality equipment and training to have three doctors of science. This period covered by this Documentation Centre is certainly the most important period of the Republic of '91-95, meaning Homeland War. What we were saying at the 2011 Report we always wanted to introduce into the '91 event. So we asked that the history of the late '80s and the 1990s be explored to essentially see the right reasons and the way of aggression on the Republic of Croatia. They've accepted it in the center, and we're also more than happy with it. What is also good, and here I was glad that the director of the centre in his introduction said that as a scientist and as director of the centre for every crime that someone committed on behalf of Croatia to make an apology. I think it's the right way to approach this problem because we as a people, as citizens of the Republic of Croatia, have to be aware that certain things have happened that have not been to the pride of the Republic of Croatia, but facing the truth doesn't mean a step back, it means a step forward. I think we must face all of our past, which is primarily more than successful. And what I would say is that about the Homeland War especially when it comes from the center of any research work that always stays at this level professionally justified and primarily affirmative about the Homeland War. What we also consider to be the selection of the doctoral dissertation of Ms. Ana Holjevac Tukovic is the process of peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Podunovre. This is what we believe in the HNS club that, with all those pearls of the Homeland War, the great victory of the Croatian Army, we believe that this is one of the greatest victories of the Croatian people peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Danube and I think that in part of the doctoral dissertation of Mrs. Tukovic, I think this material should be made available to the general public as soon as possible. What we also think in the HNS club is that it is good that it is still important to visit all the sites of important events from the Homeland War, make direct and enormous contacts with the participants of these events. Normal scientists, researchers from all these conversations will draw out what's most important and what's best and we'll have a real record of it all. If I hadn't now touched on all the topics that were the reason for writing books I would have touched here, perhaps in my opinion, once and for a little emphasis on the issues of the Homeland War, that is the contribution of the media and journalists to the creation of the Croatian state. I think 21 journalists in the Croatian Homeland War lost their lives because of their exact writing, because of the real information, and those people who lost their lives were almost in those most important places. Why do I mention this part of the press? Just what you published by Russian journalist Mukashev's "Black Map" I think that this is a good choice and that you, as a scientific professional, can be identified from certain information on the subject that is important for the establishment of the truth about the Homeland War. I think it was a full hit and it was the right thing to do. Here you wouldn't talk about these numbers that are related to the number of books, the number of money. What we believe in the club HNS was certainly a major contribution to the Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War on judicial proceedings where you managed to facilitate the defence of Croatian generals based on your collection of buildings. What we also consider important is that the greatest contribution to the creation of the Croatian state is that Croatian citizens and Croatian soldiers have given it, but we must never forget as a majority people that have given significant support to this contribution and members of the minority in the Homeland War. I think that this topic should also be talked about in an affirmative way, and that their contribution is really immeasurable because when we look at the total share of the population in the Republic of Croatia if I'm not wrong somewhere around 7% are members of others, and this is all a majority Croatian people. So that all of those members of the Slovaks, Hungarians, Czechs, Serbs, Italians, Roma, Bosniaks, not to mention Albanians, I think that they have all made a significant contribution and that we as a majority people must certainly thank them all in a long way to put this in a particular document to be published. What we think is certainly important in presenting and showing the Homeland War that the Homeland War cannot be represented in the same way and depicting the age of children up to 4th grade, 8th grade, high school students, and I think that this certainly documentation centre, with the help of science, certainly adapts these events that they are still too young to find that interesting and that with a positive impression they experience the Homeland War. Because children who come are different, they are more sensitive in their own way and do not have to experience the Homeland War equally. It is our task, the task of the Documentation Centre to introduce them into the best way to value and appreciate both the Homeland War and Croatian and defenders and everything. Here I will finally say that I am pleased to say that the HNS Club will fully accept this report and wish the director not Vladimir but Anti Nazor that he manages this centre as successfully as he has so far. In the end, I would say that whenever we talk about the population of defenders from the Homeland War, all political parties, and especially us in the Assembly, must have a special responsibility that with discussions as they were today at the first two points, be assured that we will experience all contempt with the defenders that they do not expect from the Croatian Parliament. So as a member of the Parliament and your colleague, I would ask you that we always have a view that when we talk about these topics, we talk very responsibly and we don't argue with things that aren't necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54905	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54906	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague, you pointed out in your presentation that really the task of the centre is the question of interpretation of history especially from '91 to '95 of our Homeland War, we really should be very proud of it. And we don't have to apologize to anyone for that. And what would point out is that we should point out and that true interpretation of history is why there is the task of the centre because here tonight and in our Assembly we also had the challenge of many allegations, unfortunately that some defender was something that was right and it was wrong. Because especially since you emphasized that history is what we must be proud of, and if we do not draw some conclusions from that history, then it is our own fault if it happens again. And the present is also what it is, we can't be too happy with it, but the future is what we have to take care of. And the future is what you yourself have told that truth and that part of the interpretation of history and our pride should be passed on to the youngest. They must from the beginning in that part interpret and know what is true. And here in that report I've seen quite well that maybe too little is both the workshop and the stands and the school exposure, maybe too little and it would really be necessary in that part to adapt to what you said we all have in all the cities. As mayor, I see... the dead in the cemetery where we have a lot of defenders who were primarily on the front lines of Vukovar who have already made several statements of their truth, their version and their content of our Homeland War. Here, maybe we should work on that more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54907	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Ivica Mandic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54908	Thank you very much. My colleague, I think you've followed well, I'll just say in response to your replica there may be no direct link to the development of democracy, but I think with the quality work of the Homeland War Documentation Centre will certainly improve and will be a significant contribution to the development of democracy. Exactly, I said that we as a people have a glorious history but certainly in that part of history we have parts that we have to... because if a man faces what someone bad did to his it doesn't mean that he's defeated. I think it's according to all the laws when a man realizes he's made a mistake. I think he's immediately forgiven. I think the center should be supported in any case, it should be tailored to ways of presenting as I said to the ages, and as far as I know, there are stands one, two, three, but they have to be appropriate to age.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54909	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54910	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, my colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Deputy Minister, Your Honor. Here, in fact, it was nice to hear previous speakers in a way positively view the work of the center, the work of experts at that center, the work of the director. I will also go with thanks to the old board of directors as the director pointed out. I think it's very important, I think it's a very, very administrative council that has been for many years and in some ways given direction and supported the director and his experts, also responsible for these results. And I think it's important to point out. And in some ways set standards for newly appointed board members to try to maintain these standards. For this purpose, all the things that HNS and SDP colleagues said would really have one institution that deals with the topic of the Homeland War, collecting buildings, research and in true conclusions then presented these values of the Homeland War and, in some ways, if we will and defend the interests of the Republic of Croatia, which must most certainly be protected by interest. Since a lot of this has been said here, activities in the collection of construction and research activities and publishing activities and international cooperation and activities towards a similar centre that is being launched, as the director in Mostar said. And the issue of collecting buildings related to court proceedings in The Hague is just saying that this is not in the classical sense of a purely historical institution. Because their activity has therefore, at this very moment, very current repercussion. I am quite certain that activities related to the collection of buildings related to the trial of six commanders from Bosnia and Herzegovina will also in some way be an integral part of the centre. Almost a hundred events where the center was, where the center was active. And in some ways we don't have what our colleagues said about the very transparent financial report we don't have that much to add. But why are we, among other things, discussing this... Report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not only are we to commend, although we should also commend the institution and the director, but in a way that, on the basis of the report, we may also be able to discuss steps further and in which direction we are strategically developing this activity and the center of the Homeland War as such. It was mentioned here that the wake-up center was somewhere around 3.5 million kuna. And it has been said that the centre as well as other cultural institutions have a certain part of the funds that has been reduced compared to the year before or a year before. And that the center shares the fate of those institutions. The fact is that it would be good for both colleagues from HNS and SDP when we have a budget to take a good look at the budget of the Ministry of Culture, so let's say that the independent cultural scene has twice as much, almost double the funds from the center of the Homeland War. That grants to non-profit media when the sums are almost double. It's a political stance. I believe then that we will all find the strength together to be so uniform in protecting the activities of this center as we did today when we accepted the report. It would also be good to think strategically about how the centre should act further. Whether new spaces are needed to store buildings, whether new adequate spaces are needed, which is definitely related to building a central archive in Kerestinco. And what might be an additional impulse to work on historical truth and the defence of the truth of the Republic of Croatia, and yet that is one wish mentioned in this Croatian Assembly and others, in some other places, preferably in the Republic of Croatia and under the auspices of the centre, documents from the international tribunal in The Hague are stored. And that's connected to building a new archive storage facility. You all here know very well what the possibility of any manipulation of such materials is, God forbid. And we believe that it would be in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to be responsible for the preservation of that building. We also believe that this regulation relating to the position of institutions in culture by type of first and second, the third species will be corrected. Because there were five institutions in the culture that were classified as the first kind, it's very important, not only because of some coefficients that don't have to be respected, but it's terribly important as a political message. And it's very awkward and it raises certain questions, doubts and doubts if the museum's documentation centre of the Homeland War comes first in the first row, and then suddenly it's listed amongst the institutions of the so-called. Third species, unnecessary. And we believe that the ministry is going to review this on the basis of this debate. When we speak the same way we should, it is certainly in the new circumstances of joining the European Union that the possibility of more express international cooperation is being opened. I believe that with this and new scientific work and with the new expert to say the competence of the centre there are opportunities for international projects and for networking with related institutions in the European Union as well as beyond. And I think that in the future, the centre will be able to do even more intensively and even better analyze the materials collected and place them to say so, perhaps to the international professional public. Because if we say that our citizens may not be familiar enough, then you can think of what it is with the citizens of the European Union. It is absolutely certain that all of this should be found, those hints may be some, perhaps some, perhaps not, and in a strategy of cultural development where certainly this institution must not be left out. It's very bad, too, with the institution being left out of the so-called so-called. The first types of cultural institutions that could be heard in the towers that the facility, that the centre would be Fusiond with the military..., i.e. connected with the military.... That would be very bad, and that is why I cited this example of collecting documentation to assist Croatian generals in The Hague. So it's not just material that we can only classify under history because it has direct reflections on what's happening right now. No matter what people do there who study it according to historical principles, the historical methodology, what this material is stored according to the rules of the archival profession, is nevertheless a very small distance, and we cannot treat it until the end as just a historical institution. In this sense, HDZ will accept this year's report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2012, and what colleagues from the SDP and colleagues from the HNS said about HRT will not speak at this time because simply these criticisms would not go to the right address and we do not intend to place it on the soul, but we are eager to expect the ladies and gentlemen of the HRT to finally show themselves in this House if they arrive from the great reforms they are carrying out and to finally discuss these reports and, I suppose, as parliamentary representatives of all parties because we were the unis this time, we are still suggesting some things that should be shown on public television differently. We believe in it, if nothing then that both professional and reasoned and commendable work of the centre will encourage it, if not our words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54911	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Ante Babic, excuse me two replicas, but the first one is her distinguished representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54912	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is my colleague Mesic, speaking of the work of the Croatian Memorial Center of Homeland War, you spoke among other things why he is responsible, I would agree, of course, with you. And then in the end, you talked about publishing, and I wish you'd mentioned this last seventh book, which was published by the center, and it's actually about the book "The Ring of Peace and Motherly Love", by the author Slavica Bilić, and also by the president of the Bedema of Love, the first anti-war movement of mothers and mothers who took their children out of the midst of the aggressor Yugoslav People's Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54913	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Jasen Mesic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54914	I accept my colleague, here about time and somehow with this debate, I was able to mention it and thank you for reminding me of it, the more I found myself in this historic time as one of the servicemen of the military period who was not, who remained blocked in some areas and, of course, that topic is interesting and shows action, if you want to have a civil and civil society at some time off, and in this way I believe that what you said is also worth additionally prominent and mentioning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54915	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54916	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the thing, most of all, I agree with my colleague Mesic's debate, but I would stay with him that the Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War is primarily a public scientific institution. I wouldn't put her in any context of any court action. What was good, that the Documentation Centre did its job well and that it did quality work and..., that part of the materials collected and arguments found at the Documentation Centre helped defend the generals, that's good. And why that's good, because the Documentation Center has access to the Homeland War from historical, scientific and research, it collects the building and systematizes it. Since they made good progress, that part of the building could be systematized, it was easy to find materials that contributed to the defence of Croatian generals indictees. I think that these values of a public scientific institution should continue to be built on the future of the Homeland War Documentation Centre because the work they have done so far has shown that they are doing quality, professional, scientific and that the International Court in The Hague has accepted their argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54917	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Jasen Mesic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54918	Dear colleague, it's absolutely not all that you've said. So I just underlined what you're saying in the context of a regulation that the centre was classified from the first kind of cultural institutions to the third. So everything on the trail of what you're saying is gonna fix it for us. Right? And that's what I said in the context of comments that speak of a possible connection between this center and the Military History Museum. And I was just saying that it wouldn't be good because the center still has a different methodology of work in a certain way, just the one you mentioned, there's absolutely no dispute unlike the museum. Exactly because I agree with you that this is the way to go about it. That's why I said it as an argument to preserve autonomy if you want these institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54919	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives' Club, the word will be taken by the respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54920	Here is Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Mr. Nazor, the Honorable Deputy Minister of Culture, as we learned yesterday from respected academics, MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, the remaining in this afternoon's debate and the Club of Representatives of the HDSSB will certainly join all of these praises which the presidents have presented on the work of the Croatian Memorial-documentary Centre of the Homeland War and in what the work of the Memorial-documentation centre is, in all these aspects which have already been cited, so that I do not repeat now, but also the personality and public appearance, the public appearance of the Director of the Memorial-documentation centre itself, in fact, contributed significantly to the greater frequency not only of the Homeland War but also of certain truths and the fact of the Homeland War which are very often and unfortunately, unfortunately, and in Croatia, very often, very often, very difficultly speaking, to say to the contrary and internally speaking. This summer we met through one of the committees, at least I met and later at the plenary session with a proposal from the Government that was converted into a decision, and the decision was later voted in the Croatian Parliament on the change of the composition of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre, so the Governing Council, by the way, was then asked whether these people were doing badly. No, so these people were doing great. Academic Sanjek was doing great, but everything was wonderful, he said, weary of the material, people got tired even though they claimed they were not tired at all and that there was a need to replace them. And so this summer, of course by the will of the majority in the Croatian Parliament, changed 5 of the 7 members of the Governing Council including the President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. A young solid scientist from the 36-year-old Faculty of Philosophy was appointed president this summer. So the voltage actually really works. We were really wondering then why a young scientist who actually needs to be in some kind of executive work would put him in the position of President of a Board of Directors of this kind. Otherwise, the most connected with your work on the document, that gentleman. As far as our stance on the Homeland War is concerned, we do not agree with most of the views the document has promoted on the Homeland War and on the events that followed after the Homeland War. Also, the administrative councils are still people of 36, 38 years of age. We also had a big comment on the appointment, on the proposal and later appointment of Mr Cedomir Višnić to the Administrative Council. It is a gentleman, I think it was a proposal from the Ministry of Culture to the assistant minister who is 53 years old, but who, by his public work and public action, our opinion was not a person who was suitable for meeting in the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. One news that's not so old, an interview 7.1 this year for... It goes like this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So a quote: "If the situation in the former Yugoslavia was generally assessed, the topic would easily be covered by the easy-to-be people's saying "it is not known where it is worse". After all, one of the worst is in Croatia. Croatia has indeed solved the Serbian issue." So, it's a quote from that gentleman from January this year to the media. It is also a gentleman who is therefore the president of the Serbian Cultural Society Education on what, it is ok. However, the man who placed Ivo Vojnovic in Serbian literature, among Serbian writers, who has serious problems from the Serb community over one book's plagiarization charges, one paper, and who, in fact, with his views that are not affirmative of the Homeland War, we felt that there were serious obstacles to the appointment. We still believe that and we believe that this was not a good human being's decision. When it comes to the work of the centre itself and also to what Mr. Nazor said is very important, and this is the case with us both in public speech and in political speech, especially when our politicians, regardless of what rank it was, go beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia, when it comes to the Homeland War then behind every sentence comes but. We, too, use it very often in the Croatian Assembly, but. So, but "Storm" was a great winning relief action but, the Homeland War was great, it lasted for years, we managed to defend Croatia but. The flash was fast, effective but. So, this one but follows every public speech about the Homeland War especially when it comes out of these topics that are directly referred to the Homeland War. Or when it comes to the participation of the Croatian army in the war in BiH, that is, but it comes one after another, not one. And I think you mentioned the contribution and importance of participating in BiH's defence against major Serb aggression. However, the thesis, I think, is largely not present in public speech, but rather the issue of the aggressive action of the Croatian military in BiH has been going on for almost 20 years and is constantly going on and on and on and on and on again and again. And regardless of the scientific facts and evidence that are constantly being collected and which undoubtedly speak of the fact that the Croatian military participated in the defence of the Republic of BiH against large-scale aggression and that actions in one part of BiH were part of the operation from the release of the Republic of Croatia and that bilaterally valid contracts have been concluded there nevertheless over and over again from one virtually one and the same circles over and over again, but that slowly over these years has been trying to be turned into various lawsuits, charges, indictments, various mortgages and the like, which were actually put on the burden in the first row of the Croatian state. Also, when it comes to action "Storm" always after the order of praises comes order but it happened, some events happened. Some events occurred in every war. There has been no war yet where there have been no events like it is not present today in all the wars of this world and in the public speech of our president of the present and his predecessor again, but we meet again. And that's why I'm inviting you on behalf of our club to actually continue as you've done so far, in a credible systematic way, to collect documents that speak of facts, witnesses, events and everything that is related to the Homeland War. We were also witnessing that it was reckless and, in fact, by forcing the majority again, that the Office for the Research of Communist Crimes was abolished. That office is attached to the Department of Defense. In this context, I think it would have been happier if that office had been somehow attached to this center so that the activity of the centre might have been expanded. In any case, much more autonomy would be guaranteed than the Communist Crimes Research Office today has as some sub-division within the Croatian Defence Ministry. Therefore, at the end of the final session, the HDSSB Representatives Club supports this report in any case, welcomes your work and invites you to continue this work in the same way with the same quality and responsibility in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54921	Thank you very much. Now we'd move on to individual debates. She'll be the first to be the distinguished representative of Tink Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54922	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Nazor. So I'm really going to try to say a few words as briefly as possible about the work of the center for reasons that all my predecessors have said everything more or less and about the way I see it and how I think it is. What I will point out at the outset, exactly what my colleague Djurovic had just finished with, I will once again express my support for you and give my wholehearted support to the very part that relates to the events through the war in BiH. So that's exactly the part because of controversy, because of everything that's been happening, because they can't and shouldn't have any free shooters unargued by subjective flatulence and not to use what kind of worse approach to say what, how and when it happens and why in BiH. So, the definitive fact is, this could also be seen during last year's report as here and now where we see that the consensus report will accept that the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre has indeed become or has long been the most important scientific institution dealing with the issues of the Homeland War. The strategic approach itself enables the collection, collection of materials, is to develop employees in scientists who will give priority to the development of the Homeland War on what they do write and speak professionally and reasonedly and through their scientific development to those very historical choices that I say will absolutely truly offer explanations and present everything that has happened. Of course... professional literature as well as other forms and other activities that will bring a more complete and clear picture of the Homeland War. The centre is working intensively to collect an archive building that is kept as we have seen or read in a storage facility in Kerestinco under appropriate conditions. The purpose is to protect and prevent further damage, further working on digitising the building to preserve it during the time it comes. All this requires absolutely great resources and I'd say human resources are a lot more or more people than the center has today. That is why there is probably a better economic situation in Croatia, but I think we could highlight it as one priority or a great priority in considering everything that will apply to the work of the centre in the next budget. The rich publishing activity of the center with recommendations that these editions should be in foreign languages, here are just a few examples, so according to recommendations that this should be in a foreign language, the centre published a photomonography of Zvonimir Tanocko Vinkovci in the Homeland War, a further scientific study by Mirko Valentića "Ware Games Croatia" so 1991-1995, etc. Books were collected, exchanges purchased, participation in over 100 different scientific gatherings, exhibitions and everything else, so the activity of the centre is truly non-transparent, and for the purpose of collecting and reasoned or objective access to everything that happened in the Homeland War. Of course, I'm not going to say "thank you" to Mr. Nazor himself, who, through his public appearance, gave the center a special level with his scientific approach to everything he talked about through different kinds of things, whether it was television shows, stands or some kind of interviews in the printed media, so he's this locomotive that gives it all a special stunt. What I will briefly look back on is what my colleague Djurović was also talking about, I am also taking the opportunity to thank you for my work at the Memorial Centre so far, and I must say that I was also very surprised by the way the council was resolved by not entering at all professionalism or any part of the biography of people who are members today and who are leading this council for the reason that the Memorial centre gets for its work through consensus of praise, etc. and probably that council that gave some of its pain to the successful work of the center by then. And the explanation given to us that the council is changing for a reason of refreshment, so I think that's really ridiculous. Anything else could have been mentioned but provided us with documentation on new members where one of the members on the A4 page in three sentences where I don't even think he has his name and last name becomes a member of the council was mentioned by his colleague Đurović. Well, I think it's not just the demeaning of us as board members, but it's the Parliament and everyone here starting from the president to the last parliamentary representative on the principle of what we're trying to do and explain it to anyone else anyway. It's going to be the way we want it to be. Well, I don't have to be honest about politics very long, and I still don't think it goes into my head that politics can really, at all levels and in all possible situations, bring some things that are successful, which are, for example, just to lead them to absurdity. So he would appeal if nothing else, in the end and the Memorial center was brought into a situation alone and even I mean fellow Nazor by talking to him etc. But I don't owe it. I think that success must be a criterion, and everything else has to stay aside when it comes to the Homeland War on the work of the Memorial Centre, and here we finally thank Mr. Nazor once again for his commitment and his employees, and I heartily support their work, and I want them to continue in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54923	Thank you very much. The last individual debate is the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Nekic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54924	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, Director, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is really my pleasure after these discussions today where it fell on me perhaps too many other words, perhaps some and inappropriately inappropriate to talk about this topic that we all agree on. On this occasion I really want to give support and support to the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre and its contribution to the discovery of the truth about the events of the Homeland War. The importance of forming and working a center is reflected in the fact that a large number of people have no real information about the Homeland War but only the information that spreads various media and the way it suits them that often does not have too much to do with the truth and concrete facts. And the particular problem is that the younger generations and I belong to that generation know very little about the Homeland War in the way the media has presented it to them, as I have already said. And that is exactly how one false image is created and a false impression of aggression committed in the Republic of Croatia. The importance of the centre is seen in what the centre collects, unites, arranges and protects all documentation and all data created in the Homeland War and related to war, which is of great importance because everyone who wishes can really get concrete and real information from one hand about events related to the Homeland War. Today we heard and there was a speech about the year of the establishment of the center itself, so it could have happened sooner. For good purposes, however, it is never too late, and it is now evident that the center has justified its design. Therefore, the truth about the homeland war would certainly be more complete and credible if the media were more used in public by the centre itself and its archives. I would also like to emphasise the fact that the centre has devoted much of its work to war topics on which the Croatian public knows nothing or very little. I'll give you just one example, so these are topics such as exorcism, suffering and murder of Croats from other countries of the former Yugoslavia. In particular, I would like to commend the work of the archive material department, which, with regular activity, processes daily, explores accepted requirements from various institutions and thus contributes to the discovery of the truth about the Homeland War, collection and protection of archive materials. Furthermore, what is especially commendable, so the department collected documents related to the defence of our generals, worked on preparation, collection and selection of various documents from the Homeland War, on the selection of memoirs as well as on cultural, educational and publishing activities. It should be emphasized, and this is what my colleagues mentioned before me, so in relatively little time with limited resources has been done very much. It is especially commendable that the centre continued to invest in the training of its employees, which I believe is of the utmost importance that the Homeland War is spoken of and written professionally and reasoned. It is important to say that the issues of the Homeland War should naturally have a scientific and documentary approach, and not a flat-rate approach, and certainly the employees and employees of the Centre. What is important to say is that the employees of the centre need to regulate the easier availability of materials related to the Homeland War and thus ensure that they show the facts themselves in the right light and in the light that it deserves. In the end, I would like to say that the centre makes a remarkable contribution to the discovery of the truth about the Homeland War, about bringing facts and creating an objective and complete picture of aggression in the Republic of Croatia. And for that reason, of course, I support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54925	Thank you very much. Would you like to say the esteemed Dr. Nazor's closing statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54926	I thank you for your kind words. Here, in short, I know there's already patience at the end. A fellow respected representative said something very important, which we pointed out last time in the report on the work of the centre in the end, that is the media picture. And here it's mentioned that the center was late founded, it doesn't change anymore, it's true. We're 10 years late, no doubt. However, just public television, I don't want to get involved in the work of television, but the fact is that many controversy about the Homeland War has been imposed in media space. Is there anything simpler than putting these controversys to the public in a way that what is controversially debated in prime terms for an hour and a half, two, with people who are, means yes and against. It's so simple, let's see who's waving the papers and who's waving the empty words or the supposed words, it's supposed to happen. It's so simple that there's nothing simpler, but it's just not there. And last year I asked the Parliament to try to change something in that sense, because it's so simple, there are scientists who deal with certain periods and know the problem and can talk about it. Methodology is simple, cause, chronology, only then can we talk about the consequences. The criteria must be the same when it comes to history as science for the whole 20th century if we want to be credible, we can't treat the events of '41, '45, the other way from '91, '95. And we keep saying that. That's the attitude of credibility. These criteria must be equal and the methodology must be respected and let's just start with that. Why are the documents more scanned this year than last year? We have two interns working exclusively on it. We've taken advantage of these opportunities. Financial report, I must thank my colleagues who work in the service of financial and legal, each works in each of these services and carries all the burdens and legal problems and financial problems of the centre. For all the things that you've praised the center, these are relatively young employees, along with us a few older ones. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow senior archivist, Mati Rupic, who has been very helpful in his experience to young people who work in the centre to acquire these knowledge from archival activity, and they are all historians and this is an education according to a doctorate in history something quite normal and desirable for one such institution. We now have four doctors of science, currently six other colleagues at school, and we believe that soon the centre will be even richer with it. The field class is mentioned here, it's inevitable. You can't feel or understand everything these boys and girls have been going through if you don't pass Velebit, if you don't pass Maglai, Dinara, cross the defense line of the Vukovar line we're talking about so much now. You need to be on site and you need to hear the people who were there. I admit, my perception of the event in BiH was quite different when I read only newspapers, some of the newspapers, from what I have today when we have huge HVO material and when we went practically to BiH from Sava, Orasja via Central Bosnia to Mostar and heard people talking there. It's an experience that's irreparable. School fairs. We're not offering anyone, but we haven't turned down a single call to school and I can tell whoever called us calls again, especially now that it's about the Vukovar occupation. We're too busy here right now teaching in schools. The strategic objectives in our strategy, which is insisted by the Ministry of Culture and the Government, have been outlined in the long term how we plan to act. There is certainly international cooperation that has been discussed, and there are storage facilities that are equally torturing our centre as other archives in Croatia, but this is one situation that will be resolved gradually. It is important that we now have conditions and opportunities to work and that we are currently enabled to do so. As for the materials from The Hague, together with the Croatian State Archives, we can do it, not ourselves, but together with the Croatian State Archives, which has professional people and who have experience, but yet this unfortunate space will be imposed as a problem only that is another question that we do not decide here in Croatia. The ultimate goal of this center is the lexicon of the Homeland War, but to that end, it's a long way to go. First of all, it is difficult for me to talk about anything while the huge amount of material is broken, and the material is the basis on which we will draw conclusions both in the central military archive and in our centre are still coming years and years of work to settle this material. Unfortunately, you're all right when you mention it, it's too late. We're trying to make up as much as possible. These young people, indeed as director, can only express their words of praise, it is no problem to stay overtime, nor to come to work on Saturdays if it is necessary and to carry, along with this kind of enthusiasm and scientific approach, I believe that even the final results will not go away. And finally, thanks to our colleagues and colleagues doctored us, we have met the conditions for a research department that is also part of the centre, and we are going through this research department to achieve this international co-operation. And this year, two of our employees were in Rotterdam at an international conference, it's true that it's costing us all a lot, but it's necessary to get those international relations of friendship, experience, and here's the goal we're going to continue. As for the person with the disability we hired, I thank the Ministry of Culture for the understanding that allowed this person to be employed. Indeed, the person who does his job is extremely quality and diligent and responsible and I think it contributes a lot because it is both creative and I think it has entrenched both our space and colleagues who work with a fellow concerned. Here's thank you again for your support and for your kind words and so much for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54927	Thank you very much. We would therefore conclude the debate on this point and, of course, the vote on the report will be when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54928	Report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2012. The debate on the report is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War 2012 is accepted. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted unanimously by 116 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54929	And now we'd move on to the next item of the agenda. This is - The Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2012 The Croatian National Bank submitted this report on the basis of Article 62. The law on the Croatian National Bank. You've received the proposal in boxes. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Vice Governor Mr. Relja Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54930	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good evening. Since the crisis after strong contraction and investment consumption in early 2009 the Croatian economy has been very difficult to recover. Croatian GDP in '12. The year fell realistically by 2%, and it was also the fourth year in a row in which economic activity fell or stagnated so that compared to the 2008 business cycle, the decline was close to 10% cumulative. The far strongest negative impact on this decline in the last year gave further contractions of personal consumption -1.8% and a continuation of a strong 0.9% drop in investment. Personal consumption decreased as the population's income was falling. All the elements that make it have been recorded by negative movements, number of employees, unemployment rates, average monthly gross earnings in real terms, mass net wages and nominal and real, reduced real transfers to the population and other net incomes, the population has been disbursed, so on. consumer optimism was low. Investments have also fallen for the fourth year in a row due to the negative effect of domestic aggregate demand, due to high risks and uncertainty, environmental conditions, in the European Union countries and in general worldwide. They decreased because stronger public sector investments were otherwise announced, partly due to the situation in fiscus. But the biggest problem is that, in conditions where fiscal policy cannot objectively be encouraged to the desired extent, there is no room for such action for more significant private investment. First of all, it would be good if it were foreign direct investment in the production of investors coming here with production but also with a secure market for these products in the EU and beyond. Because that would be the fastest, and that would be the fastest way to start employment, hence, and personal consumption, of course, exports themselves, thereby in the end of the line of GDP growth. The reasons for the absence of such investments are obviously in all those elements that make Croatia so low in various international business and investment climate lists, as well as in rating agencies. We don't have to repeat them here. Unlike consumption and investment, the third main component of GDP, the external sector generated a weak positive contribution to GDP growth, but primarily due to the decline in imports, and this is again linked to the situation in domestic investment demand and the elements of domestic consumption. So after many years, after the war, Croatia came out of the zone for the first time sometimes a very deep deficit of the current balance of payments account and stepped into the surplus zone. Unfortunately, this is far less the result of an increase in the international competitiveness of the economy and export performances, and above all this is due to the contraction of imports, i.e. the consequences of the crisis itself and the interruption of an unsustainable model of GDP growth. When, in such conditions, we talk macro-economically about monetary policy in 2012, its character bearing in mind and its basic law established task can be repeated in fact by what we have repeated and talked about several previous years. The monetary policy has been countercyclical all this time, which means before the crisis, but since the crisis broke out, it has been extremely adventurous and the Central Bank has created and ensured a high liquidity system. Since then, high liquidity has been maintained in the CNB banking system, which includes surpluses that run up to tens of billions of kuna in certain periods. We repeat this primarily because it was a basic commitment and a consciously guided feature of monetary policy, and so it was in 2012 which is the subject of this report. But it also makes repeated objections to the alleged restrictiveness of monetary policy, which allegedly does not take account of the situation in the economy as is done by the US Fed or the European Central Bank. It is possible that such an understanding of our monetary policy may occur because the monetary central bank did not use the same measures used by the Fed and ISB in its management, but these comparisons are not possible simply because the CNB operates under different conditions. Our kuna is not a world reserve currency like the dollar and the euro. The central banks of the issuers of these currencies actually have one special privilege in the conduct of monetary policy and therefore have different instruments at their disposal and do not have restrictions on Croatia's central bank and Croatian monetary policy. But the end result is the same, the end result is similar. It is an abundance of cheap money from the Central Bank and very low interest rates on the money market. Despite this financial abundance, however, I would call it one of the fundamental issues that EU countries and others have been dealing with for several years is that this high liquidity can be found and the path to economic operators needs to be found. Because in many other countries, including the US and the euro area countries and the UK and others, regardless of the exclusive monetary policy that the central banks of all these countries run, politics so-called. For the past few years, quantitative yields have been close to zero or even negative. The reasons are two-sided. On the one hand, it is the reluctance of banks to borrow due to the increased credit risk of curbing economic stagnation and crisis and the need for recapitalisation, and on the other hand perhaps even more in the reduced demand for loans. In fact, the detachment of the economic operators and the population themselves. Here I will add one of our Croatian significant elements that affects the ability of businesses to take new loans, which is an extremely low capitalisation of Croatian companies and the lack of free property that could be a suitable collateral. Therefore, as I said to the CNB and in the twelfth, it created a favourable climate to launch credit growth to the total liquidity level in the banking system but also directly addressed to additional specific measures other reasons of reduced supply and demand for loans such as non-compliance with risks, credit prices and other conditions. In agreement with HBOR, the Ministry of Finance and Business Banks was launched a new lending incentive programme that was based on 2010 and 2011 models A and A+ based on a trade credit to HBOR banks, whose funding was provided by additional primary money emissions by the CNB by lowering the reserve rate of 1.5 percentage points and thus cost 0 % interest by the funds de facto banks. This freed a new liquidity of 4.2 billion kuna and 119m euros. The lending programme was further encouraged by the expansion of the volume of liquid foreign claims of 50% of the bank's loans given under the programme. Furthermore, a decision on minimum foreign currency liquidity has been facilitated by including the euro vault records of the Ministry of Finance in a foreign exchange claim of 764m euros. The provisions of the supervisory regulation related to the management... of risks which mitigate the requirements for maintaining the minimum liquidity coefficient have also been amended. It was actually our version of a series of similar attempts in other countries like the famous Funding for Landing Program of the Bank of England. The programme provided loans to end-users at interest rates significantly below market rates with a total weighted average interest rate of 3.7% for end-users. Due to high liquidity, the bank has significantly reduced its financing on the money market. The contributions to the finance ministry's vault records also fell to its lowest level at the end of the year for all maturity and for all currencies. The long-term good liquidity of the financial system also contributed to a slight reduction of active interest rates in the banks in '12. For a year, passive interest rates remained at about the same levels. However, the recovery of credit aggregates has lagged, and the net domestic assets of the monetary system have decreased significantly. In its structure, mildly the plasmas of the non-banking sector decreased while the government's plasmas continued to grow, even by 8.9%. Thus, domestic banks' exposure to the central state continued to increase, and their exposure to the country increased by 4 percentage points per year in total placements. As the net domestic assets decreased on the other hand, the net foreign assets of the monetary system increased strongly, and its growth was almost entirely the result of a reduction in the foreign debt of the commercial banks themselves, primarily by their majority foreign owners. The total result of such movements of the net domestic assets and net foreign assets is the increase of the total liquid assets in the banking system, i.e. that so-called ‘banking system’. M4 by 7.9 billion kuna or 33.3% with quasi money increasing significantly more and faster than monetary mass. But these indicators show that with the decline, the real decline in GDP of 2% and low inflation de facto monetary policy did not have the characteristics of restrictiveness. When we talk about the primary task of the Central Bank, which is inflation, inflation control, it should be said that consumer price inflation accelerated during the '12s. the year and its average annual rate from 2.3% in 2011 increased to 3.4% in '12. In doing so, the main reasons for the increase in price levels in '12. Compared to '11. The year was not monetary, it was the result of administrative action. First of all, this was an increase in VAT from 23% to 25% in March and the collection of electricity and gas in May 2012. That shows what's so-called. "substantial inflation", therefore, is an inflation measure which does not include prices for agricultural products and prices that are regulated administratively. She stayed low. It increased from 1.8% in 2011 to 1.9% in 2012. For some time now, the stability of the exchange rate has not been an explicit task of the CNB but is its indirect objective. It is also an anchor that keeps inflation under control, but also because of high... the economy preserves the stability of the financial and overall economic system. The CNB does not run a fixed but relatively stable exchange rate with respect to the euro so that in relations with other world currencies according to the dollar, the Swiss franc, pounds, one kuna shares the fate of the euro. During '12. The exchange rate of kuna compared to the euro varied by narrow frameworks and at the end of the year was only 0.2% weaker than at the beginning of the year, but the average rate throughout the year was 1.1% lower than the average rate one year before. Compared to the dollar, however, the euro has weakened the dollar by a sensitive 9.5%, according to the yen by 9.4%, according to the pound by 8.2%, the franc did not change significantly, resulting in a total nominal depreciation of 2.2%. All year round, the CNB intervened five times in the interbank foreign exchange market. He carried out several of the volume of very significant transactions with the finance ministry and the total result of all these foreign exchange exchange purchases and with the ministry was a net purchase of 104m euros. So the total international reserves of the CNB on December 31st are '12. amounting to 11 billion 236m euros, and net international reserves, hence international reserves without funds from the Ministry of Finance without foreign reserve and special rights of withdrawal amounted to 10 billion 197m euros and increased net by 175.2m euros in a year. Both gross and net Croatian foreign debt fell primarily due to the strong deleveraging of banks and other financial institutions, as well as part of public enterprises but significantly increased foreign debt of the state. When we talk about the banking sector, I would like to say a few more words specifically about it before the end, he was not in Croatia as you know from which the crisis started, nor should he be remedied, nor did he raise public debt, nor did the budget deficit spread, unlike the situation in a series of severely affected countries where the financial sector was just a kind of trigger of the crisis. However, the years-long reduction in economic activity and the decline of GDP are beginning to become increasingly a mark on the banking system as well as on its business activities and on the results of business. The increased funding needs as well as the deleveraging of other domestic sectors have resulted in a significant increase in the share of public sectors in the banking system activity. The growth of domestic funding sources was more than sufficient to finance such placements in the activity so that banks owed more significantly to foreign owners. The rest of the payments is old, the level of partially compensateable, non-refundable loans, etc. C and B loans kept increasing. At the end of the year, they reached an average of 13.8%, and in particular the quality of loans granted to companies, with the same contribution as in previous years being made to the deterioration in the activity of construction and real estate. Thus, the share of partially chargeable and non-chargeable loans to the company sector reached as much as 25% at the end of 2012, so one quarter of the loans are in B and C, respectively, chargeable and non-chargeable. That's more than 4.6% of points more than at the end of 2011. In the population, these loans accounted for 9.5% of the total salaries given to the population. Of course, all of this reflected in profitability. Profitability indicators decreased to the lowest level recorded since 1999. The profitability of the average asset was 0.9% and the profitability of the average capital was 4.8%. The drop in profitability is the result of the contraction of all margins mostly net interest margins and the growth of losses in credit portfolios. The number of banks operating with losses has increased to more than one third of the total number of banks. At the end of 2012, 30 banks worked in Croatia and 1 savings bank and 5 residential savings banks. During the year, the number decreased by only one bank, causing the bank to attach to the PBZ. The rate of return on capital close to 4.8% still seems quite decent, but the trend and rate of profitability decline are worrying as well as the growth of the number of banks that operate is a loss. We must not lose sight of the fact that the financial system is extremely integrated into the international system and that the profitability rates in comparable countries and countries in which mothers banks operate are mostly much higher, sometimes even double that. This can put pressure on the departure of the money in charge from Croatia and reduce the adequateness of capital money naturally moves to where it can be earned more. However, the banking system is still very robust, with high liquidity reserves, with a high capital adequacy rate. On average, the adequateness of Croatian banks' guarantee capital at the end of 2012 was very high 20.6% among the highest in the EU, which guarantees that the system as a whole can continue to endure potential additional shocks, while continuing negative trends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54931	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, thank you very much. Then we'd move on to the debate. On behalf of the HDSSB's Club, the first representative, Kresimir Bubalo, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54932	Thank you very much, Vice President. I also welcome the representatives of the CNB although I expected the governor but it is probably a little late, but in any case the report is ahead of us is that we have been waiting for him a little longer and it was over in May but here is the evening time but the topic is very important for the Republic of Croatia for the banking system, the banking industry, for all our fellow citizens but also for the economy. Namely, we have a report on 279 pages, and here we have a contribution, a variety of tables, an analysis. A report that is really concise, which shows the current state of our banking industry but also our National Bank's report, and in fact our international banks are owned by the banking industry, and unfortunately the Republic of Croatia has not struggled to keep the banking sector in our possession as it is today not fighting for the survival of the HKB owned by the Republic of Croatia without banks, without insurance companies, without financial leverage, without pension funds, is difficult to achieve policies and also the development of the Republic of Croatia. However, according to the Croatian National Bank's report not only this but also the previous history that the CNB was only a passive observer in the past years and looking at this report, the CNB became a statist instead of a policy co-creator, a policy that is important for the development of the Republic of Croatia. And also after the introduction of the Republic of Croatia's euro, we will not be left with the printing of money, which is also the task of the Croatian National Bank. Banks are highly centralised and how to implement policy then, how to implement regional development, how to develop spaces, how to give and help the economy that needs to be developed, and how to record all the negative trends? However, it is evident that more and more people working in the banking sector, but unfortunately they do not have great powers because the queen's banks accurately dictate the pace, dictate that capital will fertilize, capital is fast, sensitive, there is never enough and the banking industry is certain to predict what will happen in the Republic of Croatia. However, looking at the summary of this report as indicated just before Croatia is having difficulty recovering from the consequences of the global crisis. Looking at this report, Croatia is not recovering from its crisis at all, and neither is global, although we can say that a good part of the European market is recovering. The Republic of Croatia had a smooth borrowing in this report and that's what's wrong. We've been in debt for years, but the debts need to be paid back. Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia is having a hard time serving its interest rather than paying off the principal, and we certainly share our concerns about what will happen at the beginning and during 2014. But looking at unfavourable trends in the real sector, we certainly cannot expect an economic growth either. The report says that the CNB will support stability and liquidity, stability and liquidity but these are not parameters that contribute to the development of our economy. Surely by looking at this year and what Croatia has exported, everything it has lost in the markets related to the CEFTA contract, watching the decline of gross social product not only in this year but also in the last five years it has fallen 10%. And looking at macroeconomic movements, looking at employment, looking at the drop in living standards, looking at the unemployment rate that is 16 in the report today is 20%, then sure that, and reducing domestic consumption but also reducing real wage mass, clearly indicate that we have a red light that Croatia has to react but also the National Bank. What is evident is that the Croatian National Bank reacted last year by increasing the bank's mandatory reserve from 14% to 15% and withdrawing part of the kuna from the market to stabilise the exchange rates. However, the main reason is not only the stabilisation of the course but also the individual duties of larger economic operators. What is evident is that the increased placements are precisely in the state by 5.2 billion kuna or 8.9% without shipbuilding for which the enormous guarantees are and this awaits us in the coming years. But what's definitely, it's a pessimism that feels at every turn but also the deleveraging of our fellow citizens. Detachment in 2.1 billion last year. The decline of European reference interest is also evident in the European market but not in Croatia, the difference between passive and active interest is still quite high. So already 250 thousand of our citizens with a 21 billion kuna blockade and 62,000 legal entities with a 35 billion kuna blockade. I'm sure that's the number we're worried about. And looking at the 5.1% drop in housing savings last year and new announcements that the co-financing by the government and the rest of the ministry will be lifted, surely we are concerned. The property of compulsory pension funds, it's also listed, watching mandatory pension funds and 51.1 billion kuna then we often see that it's actually bypass banks. And these pension funds are not well controlled in relation to our banks operating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It is through these pension funds that we often see that these investments are bad and then we are sure to ask ourselves why the weak control of our pension compulsory funds is and why they gambled on the funds we expected to use one day for pensions by investing in capital in certain companies. But also by solving those, I'd say the poorer placements of individual banks. Looking at what is happening on the market, the Republic of Croatia sells its silver and companies worth, but there is also a clear increase in exports of gold to the Republic of Croatia and we do not have any mines. That's what we're worried about because the last thing our fellow citizens have is exactly what gold is, what they've been guarding for decades, and whether that's the last Slavonic ducat they're selling to settle their obligations to the banks and to professionally deleverage themselves with the banks because that's exactly what I can do. But the banks also feel what is happening, what will happen in the Republic of Croatia and the bank queens return 2 billion euros last year, withdrawing from our market which will certainly be evident this year. Our Constitution makes it clear, Article 49, that foreign investors are guaranteed the free export of profits and capital invested. But what happens if the next year the bank firmly decides to withdraw more significantly their capital that has been engrossed in our premises? Looking at the instruments of monetary policy, I said something about them, the only thing you took care of was the mandatory reserve, but it's obvious that those other monetary policy instruments weren't used enough just to strengthen the domestic economy, but they were favored by an import lobby, an import lobby that continued to strengthen some foreign production, not ours. Looking also at the entry into the European Union, which has often been discussed from the level of the CNB, it is evident that we will pay more funding for membership fees than we will withdraw funds. Also when we talk about the business of credit institutions, they are 36.30 banks, 5 housing savings and 1 savings, then we can say that 6 large banks accounted for 82% of the assets. But what is evident, the deterioration of the credit portfolio is also looking at the concern of getting the banks from 3.8 billion to 2 billion 739 million, and we cannot be concerned about it because the question is how they ranked themselves. This is especially evident in your report when we talk at the end of the year and when we talk about the classifications of the credit arrangements themselves. Last year, however, the revenues from the commission were 4 billion and 197 million, interest revenue 31 billion, 686, foreign exchange trading of 828 million. Looking and falling to get banks it is clearly reflecting the state of the population but also the economy, it simply feels a reflex that will feel even more in this year 2013. And that's why the reservations that went up in the last quarter, which he finds... common although I think it should be continued, not just in the last quarter, because the banks were more rigorously evaluating and controlling their system and credit portfolio with 31.12.200 because they know that the CNB usually controls 31.12. so they increased the reservations. This also reflected the results of business banks, although looking at C plasmas they increased the amount of 7 billion 651 million. Looking at payment traffic, seeing that each Croat has over two cards per head, looking at what is coming to us and that we live on credit, and we are dying on wars, but also watching the business of the vault where it is evident that cash has increased in the system 4.5% more cash in the system and I would like to know what your forecasts are, whether more cash in the system will be needed this year too. But what we are particularly concerned about and we have seen... the report is in the implementation of the budget of the first six months of the Republic of Croatia where the deficit is greater for the first six months than the estimate for the whole year, but it is evident that there will be a deficit of around 17 billion kuna. And since we expect the CNB to also withdraw certain measures and give suggestions then we expect in this section because in the CNB with employees almost 650 people, looking at the amount of people per capita, we probably have a National Bank that has significantly more employees than some other banks in the environment. What we need to strengthen, it is re-industrious through HBOR, through that perhaps and the announcement that you had today in the Evening List that we read, but if it is only for today's needs then it is not good because exactly those investments that are important for the development of the Republic of Croatia do not happen as well as the large investments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that you were talking about earlier. The stability of the currency is important, your goal is the stability of the system, and everything else we can say is unstable, but as well as the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia is garbage. Inflation is 3.4%. The CNB objective of Article 13 is price stability, but looking at gas prices, electricity, energy, VAT, consumer basket, then we can say that you have not fulfilled your task in Article 3, but Article 8 where your responsibility is excluded and you have done very well. Who's responsible for the savings, and looking at what DAB paid off in the past year, and here's how much I've seen in your '78 resume. You work at the CNB. DAB paid 4.5 billion kuna. We can ask who's to blame for the downfall of those banks in the late '90s, but also who's to blame for the collapse of the Central Bank, who's to blame for the collapse of the Credo Bank, and why so many savings payments. However, by increasing Croatia's entry into the European Union and increasing the amount of secured savings deposits to 100 thousand euros and the volume that is present, we are sure to be concerned about that part in the event of an earthquake in the banking system, although you mentioned the adequateness of capital is good, but also seeing that 1/3 of banks acted negatively last year, watching reports by Bank of Coins, Center Bank, Karlovačka Bank, Kent Bank, NAVA Bank, Primorska,... Bank, Societ Generals, Tesla, VABA, but also residential savings banks of Hypo residential savings bank and Wustenrot. So, looking at the World Bank's reports, looking back at what we are looking at today, and everything going slowly, that the Strategic Investments Act was passed in this House for 9 months, then surely we are concerned because we and the direction we are going surely to expect, and that in the coming time probably a Public Debt Management Strategy is being adopted because unfortunately it is not being managed. Croatia is in debt, non-refundable loans are increasing, but with which Croatia has easily been in debt over the past years, with which it is in debt today, that is certainly what we are particularly concerned about. Looking at five years since we've been in crisis, and almost the CNB hasn't been involved in finding a way out of the crisis, so let this and today's debate be an incentive for you to get involved in solving problems how through those measures that you can achieve, through your leverages, and also through the National Bank system. Our economy is vulnerable, but so is our banking system. Therefore, the HDSSB cannot accept this report and we expect answers from the Croatian National Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54933	Thank you. We have one replica. Goran Maric, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54934	Thank you very much. Comrade Bubalo, you were talking about the reaction of the Croatian National Bank when it appeared publicly and warned that certain moves would reduce the profitability of business commercial banks. It is good that the CNB reacts to negative effects. However, reducing profitability is not a negative effect, there is no destabilising of the financial sector, no lower profit destabilization of the sector. It's only less gain or extra gain depends on how anyone interprets. But it is interesting that the Croatian National Bank reacts to a reduction in bank profits, which in itself is nothing wrong. But it does not react when banks introduced currency clauses into the Swiss franc, when 144,000 users of such loans were damaged, or 500,000 tightly bound. She did not react when high interest was calculated on minuses on current bills of 14, 15 and 18% and responded to the Croatian people's standard. She did not respond when people were left without a job, so they could not repay housing loans and other loans, that they would be brought into the social stage of social danger. The bank did not react when 39 billion kunas were partially charged or not charged credits and were therefore forced to increase unilaterally interest rates, even then it did not react. It doesn't respond to different types of fees, but banks don't ask anyone who they're gonna lend loans to and under what conditions and it just becomes a state problem when they can't charge those loans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54935	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54936	Comrade Maric, I respect what you said. But it is evident that exactly the Croatian National Bank that should fight for our population and our economy is fighting for this very profitability of banks. But they didn't warn when they were two-digit, I'd say interest in a lot of it. Because it's been known that since the world and the century, double-digit interest can't exactly be returned from the real sector. They didn't react in that part. But also when you're looking at exactly the fees where last year was sucked just for 4 billion and 197 million fees and then it's logical to go and react by courts as well as the government when we talk about loans in Swiss. But I estimate that this time, too, the Croatian National Bank will not be placed in the service of our inhabitants and our economy, but probably again in the service of foreign banks and protecting their extra profit that was last year, and I laughed a little bit at 2 billion and 800 million. Well, it's just sucking up our economy and taking you to some other countries, and capital is fast, sensitive, it's not enough right now. There is enough on the Croatian market, but we no longer have more potent and capable neither the population, nor the economy that would raise loans, but the opposite is happening, that is, to deprive the population, the economy is being disbursed because they have no more power, but they have no collateral, because it is known that everything that was worth mortgaged and placed under fiduciation. Therefore, apparently based on the reports we have ahead of us, we cannot expect the growth of the economy, but also the development of our inhabitants.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54937	Thank you. On behalf of HDZ Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54938	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. If this House discussed the state budget at this time without the finance minister in front of so many MPs, it would be inappropriate. It is equally inappropriate at this time to discuss the Croatian National Bank Report without governors. He's on his way almost every other day, mostly and justifiable. But sometimes it goes more as a witness with the Ministry of Finance than, and the other day I see it with ministers in London where I think it would be more important to be here and explain to us why Croatia is in this situation as it is. No labour success policy is as measurable as economic policy. Whether fiscal and monetary policy is effective, and these are the two most important economic policies, part of economic policy. Whether it is successful or not, whether it was procyclical or anticyclical at the time of the crisis, no one else should talk about it except the results. And macroeconomic indicators indicate whether something is successful, effective or not. All indicators relevant suggest that the situation in Croatia is almost unsustainable, that it was bad and in 2012 and even worse. All indicators deteriorated from GDP movements, price developments, exports, industrial production, and in all this monetary policy remains neutral. But it is not neutral, it must not be neutral because it acts on key real macroeconomic variables. It affects economic growth, economic activity and employment, and it can act. However, it limited itself exclusively to price stability, and here we can see from the very exposure that it was not exactly at the level. Acadamik Balletic, a university professor of economics, writes in his book "The Money and Monetary Policy", says the CNB is under too much pressure from financial and import-trade interest groups. So the problem of the democratic deficit present in the CNB is even more pronounced. He goes on to say that the model of monetary policy is all the time inadequate, unsuitable and as such could not produce any different results than we have, and they are devastating. Its separation from the real economy of this monetary policy model is seen in the extremely good liquidity of the financial sector and extremely poor indifference in other sectors of the national economy. Of course, the writings of prominent Academyman Baletic and university professors Lovrinović, Jakovcevic and Radosevic were responded by the former governor who was last year and who publicly claimed that they were poor students who had to listen to such lectures. So all indicators suggest, especially the number of unemployed, the drop in economic activity, general pessimism and depression that has dragged into the economy that the poor Croatian people in which the CNB is a central bank, not that the poor students are listening to what would be right. Because the CNB manages the cash mass on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. Money works on macroeconomic variables. However, the CNB acts as if it doesn't work, as if it doesn't, has left everything to the market. She has no influence, she acts as an uninterested party in the process. She is not acting as a fiscal agent of the state, and it should be as a new Statistical Institute, and the governor as the nation's chief economic adviser. It's not the role of the CNB or the governor. And when it comes to price stability, what do they say they only guarantee, that it is their goal of being able to increase the inflation rate by 47% in 2012? From 2.3 to 3.4%, that's 47%. The report says such inflation is due to an increase in VAT and an administrative increase in prices. That's right. But the CNB also says that the reason for the terrible accumulation of food products is a drought that did not say whether it was in Croatia or in another country, but given the quantity of food imports, I do not know what this drought could have affected so much increase. And it remains that this could be the use of the market power of individuals in Croatia, the inefficient action of the Competition Protection Agency and some other institutions. Of the 45 food products most commonly used in the diet 44 increased by more than 30% in 2012, only 1 food product experienced a reduction in prices and 5%. And you know what the product is? Acid pickles. What irony is that the only policy economically offers us acidic pickles for survival, and all other products have increased more than 30%. The Croatian people are spending more and more available income on food and directing. Prices are rising, and the CNB is just finding out. The CNB is independent, neutral, powerless, everyone else is responsible for the situation and they're not responsible but they're responsible that the situation isn't worse yet because if it wasn't for this kind of CNB then the situation would be much worse. Poverty is intruding and developing in Croatian society. Social distance is increasing, social shockers are dropping and the CNB is not concerned as if they are not in Croatia. It has nothing to do with unemployment or the fall in economic activity. The CNB has transformed its independence into independence from economic interests, into independence from national interests, into independence from sound even reason and the well-being of society. How is it possible that monetary policy is successful and everything else is failing? It's simply impossible, theoretically or empirically. Is anyone concerned about the unfavourable structure of credit ratings? In 2012, total credit ratings fell from 292 billion to 284 billion. Under the most severe crisis, 8 billion kunas less credit ratings than in 2011. Out of the total activity in 2011, 42% of the companies, 43% of the population, and in 2012. 38% for companies and 45% for the population. So, by five percentage points, credit ratings have been reduced to companies. Are we going to get Croatia out of the economic crisis with such a policy? That's impossible. In 2012, we placed 108 billion kunas in companies, 15 billion kunas less than in 2011. The population's debt accounts for 38% of GDP. In a report by the previous CNB, I read that the debt of the population was 32% of GDP and that, given that the developed countries of the world are not responsible enough and that up to 60% of GDP can be owed, so if we are only 38% today, then only the sky is the limit to our progress if this is a criterion of progress that we owe the population even more, and we do not lend to companies. We are the only country in the EU with the amount of savings equal to credit ratings, and at the same time we have 39 billion kunas partly unpaid or charged. I've said here several times that the statistics on partially chargeable or uncharging loans aren't accurate, it shows year by year that it was fictitious. It wasn't this default yesterday or today, but where the CNB was when loans to large corporations were granted to even one corporation a billion and 900 million kunas were placed by banks that couldn't be charged. One other corporation, two billion kunas, three billion kunas and 600 million kunas, in just three corporations so many uncharging loans. What was the CNB doing? Well, her role is super-audition and preventive character not only after something that happens negatively. What about the currency clause problem? How is it possible when in sources of funds and the CNB knows because it receives daily 30 reports from each bank, that banks in sources of funds do not have a Swiss franc? How is it possible then to protect against the Swiss franc when they have nothing to protect themselves from, there are no sources? It thus shows that this clause is speculative, and there is no room for speculation in the banking system. That's why the CNB had to react when compared, and when the source of the funds is in euro and the bank wants to protect itself against its source of funds, that makes sense. But what doesn't have a total annual income is about 100 million kunas of Swiss francs, and banks have placed it even though it's not in the report several tens of billions of kuna related to the Swiss franc. What happened to the center of the bank? In 2012, the former vice governor was used to tour and put pressure on small banks to join the center of the bank that was the most endangered and to be the bearer of this joint activity at the center of the bank. Who in the CNB estimated that the Bank Center was ready for recapitalisation, and that only a few months after that, it wasn't ready for that same recapitalisation bank? GMT is an investment bank, why it gave HNB consent to the investment bank to enter into the capitalisation of the commercial bank, and by recapitalising the commercial bank, the investment bank points to speculation again. Why is it that when one of the leaders and the head of GMTs is suspected and convicted, consent is granted for the recapitalisation of such an foreign investment bank? Probably because many things have been unchangeable in the CNB for years. Even 22 years old had the same vice governors. Well, if Einsteins were supposed to change them and give them somewhere else, and the candidates new to the Vice-Governors are named without debate. There were no candidates on the board or the proposal was reasoned or discussed, and only one new vice governor is not an economist but a lawyer who studied and graduated for 16 years in 36 years. So much for the seriousness of access to personneling, but personneling isn't... because we've embarrassed ourselves, and with Mr. Mates here we fill the columns with negative connotations. Just a short chance to mention that it doesn't explain again what's with 35 million kunas of other expenses? It's just the CNB knows, no one else. But the CNB only knows the diagnosis of the condition but doesn't know the cure. It's like when a doctor knows the name of a disease and does nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54939	Thank you, too. We have three replicas. Cresimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54940	Thank you very much. My colleague, Marić, I respect your speech and what is content but I must warn you that the success of the work of the CNB is measurable and that it has indeed become a statistical institution, but the CNB has itself said under the pressure of the importing groups. But I would not agree with you just importing groups, but also foreign banks, and that is evident from their work. Our economy is particularly vulnerable to domestic consumption, and we are uncompetitive for the EU, because exporting is exactly not going to be serviced by any of these foreign banks. The Ad hoc measures the CNB had taken did not yield results. The Republic of Croatia will be heavily increased in the coming months precisely because of these foreign banks or EU banks, but what matters is that we will have to pay back all debts, and the CNB must recognise the problems. Our expectations are indeed high, but it is evident that there are no new measures from the CNB, no projections. And the work of banks with the Government where it will end in 2014 where the Republic of Croatia will be in debt rather than what is evident in the past months not to be asked anymore after the Republic of Croatia is in debt, it is important to be in debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54941	Thank you. A colleague Maric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54942	I told my colleague Bubalo that the results of the work of monetary policy are measurable, in fact there is no policy in which work is more measurable than monetary and fiscal policy. and these indicators are macroeconomic from the economic trends of GDP prices, unemployment, employment, industrial production and others. When I was talking about who has everything to do with the work of the Croatian National Bank, it was not my opinion, I quoted it from the book Money and the economic growth of the Academy of Ballet. But I could add a lot of things to yours that affect everything. Yesterday I thought I saw on a television show where Japan was publicly said to be ashamed that banks were granting loans to criminal organisations, even those who returned loans, some also resigned. I saw a picture of the collectively bowed heads up to the floor because of that shameful act. And with us when banks do that, then there are pension funds that resupply such credits. Monetary policy is so powerful, so powerful, it affects our lives more than any other institution but is not used in the right way and most compromised monetary policy decisions that the Croatian National Bank is starting to deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54943	Thank you. Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54944	Thank you, Vice President, I will not talk about food products or their price increases due to droughts or pickles, but you said it is not appropriate to talk about the Croatian National Bank's report without governors to explain why Croatia is in this situation as it is now. And in fact, what you were talking about might be summed up in one sentence that everything that needs to grow in this country falls from the number of employees of GDP investments and everything that should fall to actually rise from unemployment, VAT, energy prices, tax premiums and so forth. Isn't that enough reason for you to have a larger, fairer, more professional, more patriotic engagement of governors and the Croatian National Bank itself and what and then to whom the Croatian National Bank actually serves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54945	Thank you. The answer, yes, yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54946	Oh, it's visible to a colleague named Babic who he serves. And I'd be more inspired to say that it's not this sad atmosphere and this time for something like that. But when someone closes their eyes and the National Bank report doesn't say it's devastating that housing loans in total are less than credits on current accounts and cards. And that there is no country in the world that has such a structure and that no one cares. And that's what they call these credits by the minuses, I don't know what credits they are. There's no insurance on them. How did they let them come? But they're not used to 22 years in the first place to think about their business, they're used to nothing but praises. So they think that the psalm was written long ago with praises enter his palaces for them, that it should be written at the entrance to the Croatian National Bank. They're fascinated by their powers. So imagine yachts are rented when you go to a symposium in Dubrovnik. 40 of them have been leaving the Croatian National Bank for years, and they have not accounted for anyone. How many employees are over 65? How many senior advisors are there, only senior advisors? There's eight of them I know. Maybe there's a lot more. What are their salaries? No one knows or can know. It's like they don't spend taxpayers' money. That's what this is about. And it still remains a secret. How much did they spend on rebuilding the facade? That's not even the state's audit to know. It's not normal. That's what this is about. And we have to react to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54947	Thank you. And the last replica, Josip Djakić, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54948	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Maric, you mentioned at the end of your debate some 35 million kunas to be spent on luxury in the Croatian National Bank. I'd say it's a state-of-the-art condition with regard to the previous year when there were 38 million kunas. And I hope that the governor of the Croatian National Bank today is not swimming along with 245 employees, that it does not swim breast, back, butterfly or who knows how, that it is not in wellness perhaps, because we also see a fellow vice governor choking this debate of ours so it must go out. He was probably supposed to be on wellness today in these nights or swimming. Imagine 35 million kuna on luxury, on all possible visions, it's rude and shameless. This is what must not happen in the Republic of Croatia in all these recession years when all ministries are prohibited from spending any luxury cards, everything that is not appropriate they continue to spend shamelessly and do not take measures necessary and necessary to ensure that the Croatian state goes forward. While announcing to Croatian defenders the reduction of pensions they 35 million kuna spend on swimming and on various sports, wellness and the rest. They're also paying off their incentives for 5100 kuna work per employee. So where's the end, what's the brains? Where's the sense in that? Where is that sensitivity to this troubled state?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54949	Thank you. Answer, fellow Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54950	A colleague, Djakic, I admit, is not all luxury, there is one small part that they spend on perfecting their employees, on education, and it should be respected but written about how much it is. And how much representation, how intellectual they are, is the only institution and item in the state budget, each has the cost of representation. The Croatian National Bank says the rest. The maximum amount left. Then where's the specification? And when you say where is the responsibility, what a responsibility when others buy them houses. That's something we can say about responsibility. Well, there's no responsibility for the results of their work. The results of their work are 350 thousand unemployed, the result of their work is 6 years of crisis already in 2007 is an indication that we are entering a crisis, only who can read but the CNB is silent. They don't answer for the results of their work because they don't taste. Imagine a chef who cooks food, but doesn't want to taste it because it's not good. He's a poor cook who can't lick his fingers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54951	Well, it's better if bankers don't lick their fingers. And on behalf of the HSU club Ljiljana Cvetovic. Here you go, pals. That's what it's like when he spells honey so he doesn't slip a little bit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54952	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, the Vice Governor, colleagues and colleagues. The majority of the annual report concerns the situation in Croatian banks and general indicators in the banking sector. Two important things that the CNB has done. First, they increased liquidity to make it easier to obtain credit and to start the economy. Even though this was done, the loans were still dropping. The thing is, the good companies that banks would even lend credit to don't need money, and the bad ones can't even get it because they're bad. It also happens to individuals of a similar nature. You can see this from a rise in the amount of bad credit. The increase in liquidity also increases the vulnerability of the banking system because banks have fewer reserves. And secondly, they maintained the stability of the Kuna course. In 2012, the Central Bank successfully implemented a stable exchange rate policy, which greatly helped to preserve financial stability. Given the high debt of Croatian citizens in loans with the euro currency clause, it is very important that the central bank continues with this policy to preserve the stability of the exchange rate. We are daily aware of the agony experienced in these difficult economic times by citizens who are exposed to loans to the Swiss franc and the CNB should continue to stabilise the exchange rate according to the euro so that the same situation does not occur to a large majority of the euro-related population. The CNB should also be commended for actively engaging and trying to contribute to the recovery of the domestic economy by maintaining high financial liquidity on the market, although extremely favourable liquidity unfortunately did not have a more significant impact on the increase in credit ratings, primarily due to adverse conditions in the labour market economy, high debt prices and uncertainty regarding future developments. The CNB certainly mitigated the negative effects on the Croatian economy by its actions. In January 2012, the CNB raised its reserve rate from 14% to 15% due to depreciation pressures on the kuna course. In this way, the surplus liquidity in the banking system has been sterilised and the depreciation pressures on the domestic currency have been stopped. In May, the bank reserve rate was reduced from 15% to 13.5%, which supported the economic development programme, but unfortunately without any visible results. Simplifyingly, the increase in liquidity does not become too much of an increase in economic activity. And the other side's liquidity increase also increases the vulnerability of the banking system by reducing the minimum reserves. In the future, we hope the CNB will raise minimum foreign reserve rates and rates. The overall increase in credit risk exposure to the banking sector is worrying, especially its growth year-on-year. Given the negative trends in both the world and the domestic economy, we unfortunately expect a continuation of this trend in the deterioration of credit quality. The CNB should continue to raise the reserve rate to preserve the high degree of stability of the banking system. We believe that the CNB has done extremely good work over the past few years and has managed to maintain the stability of the course and stability of the banking system, which, given the extremely bad economic and financial events both in the world and in the domestic economy, has been a very difficult task. The CNB should be more committed to developing the protection of consumers of financial services and financial literacy. As the World Bank noted in its diagnostic review of consumer protection and financial literacy as early as February 2010 the level of consumer protection and financial literacy is at a very low level and has a large space for improvement. Financial markets are rapidly developing and expanding, and the services offered by financial institutions are becoming more complex and more complicated. As an accompanying phenomenon, there is an imbalance of strength, information and resources between consumers and financial service providers that brings consumers into an unfavourable position. Financial institutions, unlike consumers, know their products very well. Information available to consumers can be too professional or proposed so that the average consumer cannot understand or assess the detailed information that the contract for consumers of financial services must contain are prescribed by law and financial institutions adhere to it. But these contracts are long, and the termology is unclear. The CNB should focus on determining the standard display of the most important detail of financial services with standard terminology so that all the most important conditions related to a particular financial product are presented in a simple language. Determination of the most important risks associated with a particular financial product, with a detailed description of how each of those risks can affect the consumer of that financial product. In this way, consumers would be informed in advance of all the consequences, and there would be no situation that we are currently witnessing. We believe that attacks on the financial sectors and attempts to limit the business that we are witnessing are long-term wrong and unsustainable. The development and progress of the financial industry has brought many benefits to all system participants, and rather than limiting and limiting the business of financial institutions should focus on consumer protection and improving financial literacy. The well-intentioned observation of the HSU Club is that the report is abundant in statistical data, and there is little what the CNB actually did. The club of representatives of HSU will support the 2012 Croatian National Bank Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54953	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HNS club Marijan Skvarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54954	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Vice Governor, the Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs. So here is when we refer to the Croatian National Bank's report, then they can first and foremost conclude that what we are asking the Croatian National Bank, which is its duty and obligation, is primarily to have and take care of the stability of our currency and to take care of the general liquidity of payments in the country and abroad. And also during this debate, and during the safe part of this year's debate in Croatia, it is defined that we must know everything first of all about sports, especially the coaches, and we know that after the games and we know everything about the economy. And then when we analyze, we see what our sport is in, especially football and what our economy is in. Well, first of all, when we talk about the report, we haven't started the good news in a long time, and in the first sentence of the report, which can say the same thing over 200 pages really taxively, narratively shown in tables, percentages and numerical numbers, and certainly well-defined reports. And here is the first sentence: the Croatian economy is very difficult to recover from the consequences of the global crisis. So in the second sentence, he tries to define the reason, which is the result of our poor competitiveness in the European and world markets, and the imbalance inherited from previous periods when growth was based on expansion, consumption of investments in sectors that do not participate in international exchange. That is, in simple words, that we were in debt and spent on something that did not serve to create some new concrete value. And another fact that it's been going on for four years in a row. And when we do a little analysis, and why is it like that for us, we still have to look at and look at an international environment, and that is where we find that indeed one global economic growth after the noticeable slowdown in 2011 has slowed down further in 2012. Not just on... When we look at a narrow region it is the euro area, the same thing on the euro area is reflected in recession and especially on the country of Eastern and Central Europe, and of course there has also been a slowdown in economic activity and a lot of developed countries with smaller and economic activities, i.e. the unemployment rate has increased from 10.2 to 11.4 in 2012. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course the overall international development was also influenced by the trend in prices of raw materials and exchange rates of dollars and euros. Now that we know, and we know very well, it means what it is on a global scale and within the euro area when we look at the economic activity of Croatia, then again it is said that the gross domestic product in 2012 recorded a real decline of 2%. It is again 4 years in which economic activity fell or stagnated and was cumulatively 10% compared to the top of the business cycle in 2008. What we would like to define in that part that the overall activity we had in that part and especially the purchasing power of the average salary at the whole economy during 2012 was approximately equal to that of 2006. Of course, negative labour market developments have intensified, which is the hardest that has been seen in the reduction of the number of employees and the resulting increase in the number of unemployed people. When we talk about the financial sector, it is pointed out that during 2012 the exchange rate per euro was stable and the monetary policy of high kuna liquidity continued in 2012 an expansion direction which under the conditions of unfavourable economic movements sought to improve domestic funding conditions and thereby support the recovery of domestic lending. The good liquidity of the banking sector throughout the euro area has also resulted in a reduction of European reference interest rates on the international financial market during most of 2012, which has positively affected the price and availability of foreign financing by the Republic of Croatia. Thus, the growth of financial intermediaries' assets slowed down and amounted to only 0.8, which was the most affected by the reduction of bank assets. The net foreign debt reduction of gross foreign debt decreased by 0.8 billion euros during 2012. This concludes that the trend of net debt from the previous year has been significantly intensified. After three years of consecutive growth, the overall fiscal deficit in 2012 decreased from 5.5% to 4.0% and was eventually slightly lower than the budget deficit. And the revenues of a consolidated general state increased by 2.5% in 2012 compared to 2011. The most defined debt is that the shipbuilding debt of state-owned shipyards was taken over and 177 billion kuna and 55.7% of GDP were eventually reached. A little more than half of the public debt growth was not an internal debt, and an increase in internal debt was also mainly due to the takeover of a 6.7m kuna domestic debt shipyard. When we talk about the total business of banks, it is said that 36 credit institutions were operating in the Republic of Croatia at the end of 2012. 30 banks, 1 savings bank, and 5 housing savings. In 2012, the number of credit institutions decreased by 1. Bank assets, including the savings bank, decreased by 1.6% and totalled $400 billion. During 2012, six major banks continued to dominate the market. The largest number of banks, six, owned by shareholders from Austria, and 4 banks owned by Italian shareholders. There was always a matter of bank ownership. Our opinion of the CNS is what you always say doesn't matter what color cows are, it's important that they give milk. So it really is that banks in the Croatian part are what they need to be, to accredit both the state, the economy and the population and the favourable loans. To be the bearer of development. That's what the CNB and all of us in the House first and foremost, by law-making, must take care of. Bank gains have also been reduced compared to 2011 by a quarter, and profitability indicators have reached the lowest level since 1999. At the end of 2012, 5 housing savings continued to operate in the Republic of Croatia, and on 31 December, the state of almost money outside the banks in circulation was 16.9 billion kuna and was 1.9 more than at the end of 2012. One interesting piece of information that the National Banknote Analysis Centre registered almost 30% less counterfeit kunas in circulation than in previous years. Is that saying we're not worth counterfeiting our money? No, I think that's, first of all, what has a lot of quality control of inspections and control of the issue of money itself, especially on the market. And what is most important, the importance of information and information, the CNB really introduces different activities to the professional public with the objectives, instruments and changes in its activities through here's the availability through the monthly bulletin, the bulletin on banks, the analysis of financial stability... foreign investments. All of this can really be found and there is no excuse that someone after a year, two says we didn't know what was her job to the CNB, which she was doing, who had fiscal measures in all of this. It can also be known to react proactively and in time. We can all be generals after the battle. And here's the real club of the HNS will support the Annual Report of the CNB wishing that our next report contains much less negative indicators and that absolute co-operation with the government continues because cooperation with fiscal and monetary policy is the key primarily to economic development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54955	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP club Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54956	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, So, I have to admit, I've never spoken before in front of such a small number of MPs and indeed earlier years, the CNB reports have aroused far greater interest. As we know, the primary legal obligation of the CNB is a liability for price stability. We could add that's her obligation under regular, normal circumstances. Croatia, however, has been out of normal circumstances for the fifth year in a row. The economy has fallen almost 10%, with industrial production such as that of economic activity that produces the most goods for export and creates the most jobs dropped almost 30%, and construction has dropped as much as 60%. And it's not just worrying data, it's dangerous data because it confirms almost total lack of investment. The cumulative consequences of such negative movements are manifested in high unemployment. Over 140 thousand jobs were lost in 4 years and the standard of living for Croatian citizens collapsed more than 20%. The beam of light in this dark picture is after a long time a positive balance of current balance of payments account thanks to the growth in revenues from tourism primarily. However, this light is also less light if it is known that this positive balance is significantly conditioned by the decline in imports due to reduced domestic demand. Also positive effects of fiscal consolidation visible through the reduction of the budget deficit from 5.5% in 2011 to 4% in 2012, unfortunately they melted in the first half of 2013. Inflation measured by consumer prices increased from 2.3 to 3.4% on the same day. However, basic inflation has not changed, which means that the CNB is still doing its basic job, regardless of what has been denied in previous discussions. However, in the macroeconomic conditions that I have described in advance, keeping prices under control and maintaining the high liquidity of banks cannot and should not be the only objective of monetary government and this has been warned in recent years by the elderly position and by the opposition. Which is worth keeping inflation under control if there is no economic growth, if there is no investment, which means that banks have money when businesses and craftsmen fail daily and consequently increases the number of unemployed and poor. The CNB, as an independent regulator, is expected to more actively support the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia, encourage banks to use higher and cheaper lending, and banks are expected to participate more in risks. For now, they prefer a completely different order, so they wait for the recovery of the economy and when the situation is safer then they will go into lending. On the positive track of these expectations, the CNB's move in May 2012 which reduced the mandatory reserves from 15 to 13.5% and the bank's freed assets credited HBOR and through the Economic Development Programme encouraged private sector lending under significantly more favourable conditions, above all, with a lower interest rate than the market rate. It is a pity that the CNB's move did not give the expected effects, so banks did not report to auctions, did not show interest, and one large part of the credit potential of about 13 billion kuna remained unused. When I say that banks are expected to participate to a greater extent in risks, I mean further reduction of interest to approximately the kind of loans they place in their countries of origin. True interest on long-term loans has been reduced in 2012 compared to 2011.from 6.36 to 5.76%, however, it is still too high a price for exhausted Croatian entrepreneurship and if there is no hearing for further reduction of the bank's capital prices they must know that there will be no more anyone in Croatia to place it. In any case, citizens are insinuating from new credit borrowings, and so are companies that can get credit at all, one of the important reasons is the low capitalisation of Croatian companies, and all of which, of course, has a consequence of precisely worrying about the loan stalemate. Because of this impasse, the banks remained unsecured money and all of this conditioned their even higher liquidity. The high liquidity of the banking system is a major advantage, however, and it has its own price and that is why banks have decided to return to capital abroad, or to deleverage with foreign owners, are mostly mothers' banks. Foreign deleveraging is compensated by the rise in domestic sources of funding for the special deposit of the population. In fact, the deposits of the population are the most important source of banking potential, so they're participating somewhere at 60% and they're still growing, although of course they're somewhat slower with dynamics than they were in earlier years. So we can say there is, saves in divided Croatian society, minorities have large savings, and most of the debt. Banks have a place to reduce the price of capital and should "return" part of the profits they took from Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs in the time of the economic crisis, so at a time when they were most difficult to give their own economic growth impulse. Why do I think banks have room for that? Because in 2009, at the peak of the economic crisis when the economy fell 6%, banks gained a profit of 3.5 billion kuna. In 2010, the economy fell further 1.2%, bank profits increased to 4.3 billion kuna, while in 2011, which was the year of stagnation of banks' profits increased to a further 10% and was 4.7 billion kuna. In 2012, the bad economic situation began to spill over to banks. I don't want to be insolent, but the rule is that there are no good banks without a good economy or a good economy without good banks. The profit of banks before tax decreased by a quarter compared to 2011 and amounted to 3.5 billion kuna. So in the past four-year crisis, banks have earned more than 16 billion kuna profits and the uncontested banking industry is the most profitable activity in Croatia. The high peak of banking predatory irony is the conclusion that indicators of bank profitability in Croatia have touched the lowest level recorded since 1999. to make more profitability rates in other countries. Yes, in countries where the economy also records growth rates, it is logical and acceptable for banks to earn money. I guess it's also logical then that when the economy falls the banks share the same fate, not to profit from the economic crisis. What gives banks more and more headaches are so-called. Bad loans that reached a level of almost 14%. In the banks' companies, they cannot charge almost a quarter of their loans by reaching almost 40% in the construction sector. Equally, billions of debts were recorded in blocked citizens' accounts. But comparison with other countries in the region shows that Croatian banks are best capitalised, which means their ability to cope with potential losses is still solid. Croatia's banking capital adequateness rate is around 20%, and for example, banks in Slovenia have only 12%. A few more words about just another mechanism that is a strong guarantee and stability of the system and the possibility of service of external debt. It's about international reserves. The total international reserves of the CNB on 31 December 2012 amounted to 11 billion 236m euros, which is more than 41m euros compared to their last day of 2011 when they amounted to 11 billion 195 billion euros. High foreign exchange stocks in the central bank are also greater than the most rigorous recommendations from the International Monetary Fund on foreign exchange reserves, which must have over-indebted countries which continue to be thought of by their own forces without financial and professional assistance from the IMF, thus addressing the challenges of their own financial over-indebtedness. Thanks to the monetary policy led by the Croatian National Bank during the four-year economic depression, foreign reserves have been increased and now there is a strong fuse against the uncontrolled skating and anti-inflation of inflation and against further free fall and thus the ultimate credit rating. Therefore, among the countries with the highest relative foreign reserves in stable circumstances and economic growth times, there are sufficient reserves covering the amount of quarterly imports of goods and services. The current CNB foreign reserves cover an equivalent of 8 months of imports of goods and services. The world's largest relative foreign exchange reserves, we're going to compare Russia's interests a little bit, it covers the value of its imports of goods and services over a record period of 30 months. The Chinese reserves cover 26 months of its total imports, Brazilian for example 20 months, Indian 12 months and South Korea 8 months. Unlike the above mentioned countries, the most recent reserve in Greece is barely able to offset the amount of one month of imports. So, from everything I said, it is clear that the Croatian National Bank is an important factor in the stability of the Croatian financial system and the SDP Club will support the 2012 Croatian National Bank Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54957	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54958	I thank the Honorable Vice President, although it is not common to... It replicates its own club, of course, but I just wanted to look back on one of my colleagues' findings that the banks are still at our place, even though in a smaller one, so they have a marked profit than perhaps some banks in other countries that have economic growth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd also say that banks are part of it, and it's my opinion that they're blaming themselves for partially achieving lower profit rates. And by extremely high interest rates, they tax economic operators. If it is taxed by an economic operator with 8, 9 or 10% interest it is clear that this economic operator cannot from its regular business, i.e. very difficult to service such a loan, it is destroyed by the substance that exists and is in fact asphyxiated and disabled by normal business which, for example, such an economic operator could have in Austria or Germany where such loans are made by 3% or 4%. In fact, banks kind of cut the branch they're sitting on, destroying economic operators like that, so I'd say even the interest on the interest rate. And they're making it impossible for him to continue to develop business and to take other loans and to improve business for banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54959	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. I thank the governor's jokes. I thank you, too. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And tomorrow we will continue with the 12th Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-29-0.u54960	Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2012. The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget as a home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: - The Annual Report of the CNB for 2012 is hereby adopted. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 84 votes to and 32 votes, have been abstentioned to the proposed conclusion.
