ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55238	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is - Annual Report 2012 of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency is the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency based on Article 231. Law on the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency. You received the material by mail. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. I'm asking if the motionor would like to give an additional explanation. Would you like some? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I don't either. Then I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the HNS club, the respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55239	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Governing Council, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the HNS Club will support this report by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. I, too, will present in the opening section the basic points we believe that the future report should have certain elements in order to have this report by the Croatian Parliament, parliamentary representatives on the part of the HNS Club. Therefore, no doubt that the report on the analysis of the situation in that segment controlled by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency means the capital market, investment companies, investment funds, pension funds, pension insurance companies, insurance, Leasing, factoring, well explained, well analysed with all those aspects and the role and significance of the HANFA as regulators, controllers, supervisors and those activities done on this issue. What we lack is not crucial, but it is important, which is here we do not have except the Governing Council scheme or what you said was set up are recorded business processes, a new internal organisational structure is established. In addition, we have nothing on employees, nor on numbers, nor on qualifications, nor on arrivals, nor on departures, nor on certain trends or needs, given the exceptional role played by HANFA. The same thing that is necessary to look at the work, which means all the administrative procedures that are being initiated according to the decisions of the HANFA here says that there were 50 administrative procedures, that you did all of this, provided all the documents. However, we do not have the results of these administrative procedures. What, from before, what is related to 2012 and the administrative procedures themselves that are being initiated towards, or against, HANFA essentially points to a particular problem, points to good or bad decision on certain segments, and that is one of the important segments when we decide on the work of HANFA. So when those you monitor complain, when we see the results of these complaints, we actually know whether it's right or wrong in certain segments. And that's the segment that's important when we decide on the report, when we decide on the work of HSNFA as a Croatian Parliament we have as an element that shows us and proves whether certain decisions are important for the capital market, for all those you oversee, on which you act and the decisions you make to make it more quality, which is more transparent in order to protect competition, but to be in accordance with the law, to make it right. So that's something that this report definitely lacks to get that real picture of work and decision-making. Just as I was saying about the previous agenda point on behalf of the HNS Club, which is consumer protection. So here we have a table of objections regarding the performances of natural persons, legal, anonymous etc. There were 187 of them. But we don't have some analysis of what these concepts essentially brought, whether they were essential, whether they were just because of individual cases that are minor, although I have to admit when we talk about the role of HANFA and as regulator and supervisors that it's hard to say that something less important. Therefore, a good analysis of all these concepts is also important, because it points to the functioning and work of HANFA again, to the quality of work, but also to what is necessary to further work so that certain irregularities or anomalies do not occur, and also to all these concepts and administrative claims suggest something that as a legislative body might point to the need for certain amendments, changes or additions to the laws governing this matter. So these are two key objections in this report which I say in other aspects of course satisfys what we need in our Croatian Parliament so that we can look at all the facts only the situation in the capital market and the activities that you have been doing on this issue. So we ultimately support your work, we support the report, noting that we expect what I said on behalf of the club, to have in the next report on the work of HANFA, because then it will give us more quality on how to work, and also on the needs that should be possible in market regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55240	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, a respected colleague, Davor Bernardic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55241	The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Representatives and MPs, the Director of the Agency. Well, first of all, when discussing this 2012 HANFA report, then the matter must be put into a certain economic and social context. In 2012, the year from the point of view of HANFA was a challenging year for Croatia's own adaptation and entry into the EU, especially since negative economic movements continued in Croatia that led to the stagnation or fall of the business of legal persons in this financial business and offer their services to the population and legal persons in the real sector. Thus, the fall in business through the fall of insurance premiums, the number of contracts concluded on leasing and factoring, on stock exchanges, etc. is exceptionally recorded. Therefore, in 2012, it also marked the fall in the financial market and the fall in income, i.e. the decline in the business of legal persons involved in financial affairs. The decline was also recorded by insurance companies, Leasing houses, stock exchanges and investment companies. The only ones who have performed more positively as seen in this report are compulsory pension funds, which is precisely because of the constant inflow and payment in the second pension column. What is noticeable is the trend of closing down companies of investment and Leasing companies and in fact my question continues in 2013 what is expected in the coming years when it comes to the financial market in Croatia and the fate of these investment and Leasing companies? The report also shows that 2012 is also the first year of action of the new Governing Council that was used to organise, reorganise business, or reorganisation in a given sectoral principle, so that the new reorganisation is meant to divide into five sectors. The capital market sector, the investment companies sector, the insurance sector, the investment and pension funds sector, the Leasing and factoring sector. But what's particularly important is what it's got, so what's the effect of the reorganisation? To that question we would like to get an answer whether you improved the procedures and whether you improved the monitoring of the entire business from start to end thanks to that reorganisation you made in 2012. As an observer in 2012, the HANFA was also challenging as it became an observer in European supranational regulatory bodies. This is SMAI and EIOPA means one that regulates the capital market of investment funds, the other that regulates insurance companies. What is extremely important is that the European financial market, which is part of the single European market, is extremely turbulent. Not only because of the crisis that has hit Europe, but also because of all the things that have been caused by the frequent change in decisions and directives. Therefore, the European directives are almost constantly being amended when it comes to the adequateness of the capital of banks and financial entities. So, MIFID, CER-D4. So these are things that are constantly changing in the EU and, in fact, in Croatia, a constant adjustment of the law is needed to those directives that are binding. So these are not regulations, these are directives that national legislation must implement in domestic legislation. And so, in fact, the question arises whether HANFA is at all humanised to support obviously the Ministry of Finance in the preparation of these directives? Because in reality, that's probably what it looks like. I actually find it hard to believe that only the Ministry of Finance in a particular area in which, without consulting the regulatory body, it prepares certain things that are currently concerning changes, for example. The capital market law. And I'm actually wondering how you guys are trained to spend the whole story? Because why am I saying that? I am speaking for a very simple reason that Europe, the EU, has failed to show, however you wish, exactly on the example of the banking crisis, what it could and has failed to react as a state. And therefore, the changes to the laws that go towards amending these European directives, which are heading towards a certain greater adequateness of capital, a variety of restrictions, clearer monitoring of procedures is something that is due to the very fact that the banking sector crisis in the EU has not responded adequately to it. If the EU had responded adequately to the banking sector crisis today, many European countries would be in little trouble too. Now, today Croatia is a full member of these supervisory bodies and in fact my question is that you are not on the budget and that you are financed only from the funds that you charge to domestic control entities how you actually intend to settle all these costs of constant implementation or supervision and regulation of new supervision and regulation of European directives. What you would particularly stress is the capital market in the Republic of Croatia. since 2008 when the capital market fell by as much as 67%, almost a permanent decline in the capital market in Croatia is recorded. What used to be stimulated fell apart like a soap balloon, used to invest practically in shares of all its assets, draw money from socks, place it in shares, and it fell apart when the global economic crisis broke down on us. But what is worrying about Croatia is that this year's turnover on the Zagreb Stock Exchange is 35% lower, so trust in the financial sector is not restored and confidence in the capital market is not restored. If you look at the stock indices in America, in Germany in Europe in the developed part of Europe then you can conclude that in the last 70, 80 and 100 years stock indices have continuously increased and the stock price is one i.e. shares are one of the most favourable forms of savings in the long term. This definitely cannot talk about a particular case when it is invested in shares with the intention of returning within 3, 4, 5 years, but what the world's history shows is that investment in shares has the most serious potential of saving, or the greatest return, the greatest growth. and that is why the very worrying situation on the Croatian capital market, which for the fifth year after the fall and the Zagreb Stock Exchange, in 2012 or until 2011 has dropped 35%, and that is why, of course, because of the negative economic developments at the macro-level, is the consequence that certain investment companies and the losing houses are closed. So I'm interested in what your projection of the 2013 movement and perspectives is. The HANF also plays an advisory role in amending laws that are important and regulate the Croatian financial system. I personally believe that one of the important changes was the Insurance and Transport Act, which is important to change the business of insurance companies in the risk management segment at the end of 2015. So does mine mean now it's actually another question, is these same changes going to improve business and what movements do we expect from the liberalisation of the auto-responsibility insurance market? Because it is obvious that some market operators have begun to significantly lower prices in order to be competitive and attract new customers, and the fear of competition is obvious that this example has resulted in a certain result. What I would underline as particularly important are expectations for the future, risks to danger. So because of pressure from unfavourable economic movements and reduced traffic that I was just talking about on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, further consolidation is expected by closing down a company that will not be able to meet market requirements. What I personally see as a potential problem is precisely this great pressure of European directives that are constantly changing when the financial sector is concerned with the capacities of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency and I see potentially the dangers in the EU in terms of regulations that are actually identical for all and for small and large, and the fact is that financial markets in large and small countries are not even the same because small countries have to assume the same obligations as large and do not have such an economy in proportion to be able to maintain the depth of the financial market, nor would I dare say compensation through the increased costs of this legislative part of regulation. So I see it potentially as a major problem of new regulation in relation to the controversial financial market in Croatia. Also, what is very clear, it is clear that by liberalising the rules means this liberalisation in the financial sector will last long before Croatia enters the EU and it is expected that many domestic companies that have an establishment here will act abroad and I believe this report shows that some domestic companies have also asked some insurance companies to be notified in EU Member States so that they can act on the EU's internal market. But what is important is that it is likely to be done by some fund management companies but also by increasing competition with each day. What I want to say in the end is that this is a report on the work of HANFA and business in 2012 quality prepared that it is evident from the reorganization of all those things that have been done I hope in order to be effective, i.e. Better efficiency of monitoring business entities in the financial sector to other things that are important for the work of the agency, that it is detailed, that it offers a broad overview of all the things necessary to do in order to, I would dare say that the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency's report is progressing from year to year in Croatia with its quality, it is only proof that the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, which is a relatively young agency, is increasingly gaining the status of what should be and this is an independent regulator. Here, for this reason we will support this 2012 report with several of these questions I have asked out of justifiable concern for the fate of the Croatian Financial Market because the situation has been bad for the past five years. And that's something that's definitely not encouraging. So citizens lost confidence in the Croatian capital market. And it is precisely this lost confidence in the Croatian capital market that must somehow be restored because European and world practices show that investment in the capital market is one of the most profitable investments in the long term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55242	Thank you. And I call for a pay phone from a respected colleague, Ivan Shucker, to present the positions of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55243	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Director of HANFA, colleagues and colleagues. Well, to be honest, we at the Croatian Democratic Community Club have remained surprised and I can even say shocked that the head man of HANFA has not found fit in moments when the entire financial world has been shaking for five years, he has not found it appropriate to say anything more than this report that was technically made. And it is certainly also the end of the debate between colleagues from the HNS Club and the SDP that there are a lot of questions we expected that he would say something in his opening statement. However, this best says that HANFA is reduced to a simple administrative body without being able to say and warn about certain anomalies that occur in this High House. So, at a time when the financial market in the Republic of Croatia can be easily said that it is a waterless waterless well, more and more and more without grain. It is a financial market in the Republic of Croatia. And when you look at the report then you can come to the conclusion that it's not government bonds and it's not pension funds II. My pension rate would practically not have found any more significant financial transactions because what happens in insurance companies is something simple that happens per difolt. However, if you have a 35% drop in the Zagreb Stock Exchange compared to last year it clearly warns that the question is what will be the function of the Zagreb Stock Exchange in two years. And that's what it's open to say here. And that the head man of HANFA simply doesn't feel the need to say it because you remember, so nothing happened, there is no Croatian tradition of 100 years. So this financial market of Croatia has a tradition of the last 10 years when after the sale of Pliva shares in 2002, those 7% for debt settlements of HZZO are practically and moving shares of Zagreb's bank from the Zagreb Stock Exchange until the moment it began to trade significantly with the shares of INA and HT Zagreb Stock Exchange did not live. And at the moment that store practically ended on the stock market, there were some side jobs going on. But colleagues and colleagues here in the report have things that are very interesting. So it says that in the insurance industry the charged gross premiums decreased by 1.1%. Now one of the fundamental questions is that the most dominant in the insurance market of the Republic of Croatia is Croatia's insurance which is in the interest of the moment when you have a fall on that market and that is the logical thing that then the downfall and value of the company is going to sell that company and practically the whole world has already come out of the financial crisis, Croatia slowly taps, and we will probably come out of that crisis. So, sell someone who on the insurance market or in that insurance cookie has the biggest piece and you won't wait 2 or 3 years for these trends to change, that certain new products that the insurance company has started, above all, I mean living, supplementary health insurance to grow and that the value of the company grows. Also, the value of the property that Croatia's insurance in its possession gets some real value and that the revenues of the state budget from the sale of shares in Croatia's insurance will be significantly higher. Because if I'm not mistaken, there is one solution to HANFA from a few years ago that Croatia's insurance must have re-valorated and assessed its property primarily regarding real estate. Honestly, by reading this report to HANFA, I didn't find it. Although it would make sense to me, given that HANFA is an independent regulator of the non-banking financial sector and since it is talking about the sale of Croatia's insurance to at least mention it, so it is not necessarily about Croatia's insurance, some other insurance companies could also be talked about. Likewise, colleagues and colleagues when we talk about insurance companies simply need to be aware that the largest insurance companies after Croatia's insurance are based on large banks. Why am I saying that? So because a bunch of these products from leasing, factoring, etc. the insurance companies were in principle developing solely because they were linked to a large banking system and were made available to them cheaper capital. Let's just say Croatia couldn't afford insurance, because it simply couldn't connect to any major banking system. But I'm saying, obviously, there was no need to say anything about this insurance sector. Because if you look at the Leasing Society here are these pension funds we can talk about, but insurance companies are the only thing that works alive and which is very thin for Croatian citizens on a daily basis. And the logical thing is that if one insurance company appears with some kind of 30, 40% dumping price, the question should be asked which reason is whether he can, at such an insurance price, adequately cover the damages of his insurance companies tomorrow, or whether it is simply a model and a way to sacrifice years or two businesses, to reach certain policies and to eliminate competitors in such a way. Also when we talk about this report, it is very interesting that the applicant of this report says that the bond market has recorded positive results due to an increased interest in buying state bonds from the Republic of Croatia. Now, colleagues and colleagues, let's ask a hypothetical question. Which would have been if the Croatian state had gone in that direction to enter the master criteria and the need for borrowing was lower and what would happen when these bonds were not traded in the territory of the Republic of Croatia but elsewhere. You can imagine how this report will be. It also says that the Leasing sector notes the drop in assets and the decline in the value of newly concluded contracts. Leasing was something that with the growth of standards, with economic growth had one big expansion and practically changed the way of acquiring first of all certain assets regarding both business and state and also the citizens and logical thing at the moment when the crisis came that and leasing societies were going down. However, there is something that again raises the question of why HANFA does not react, and that is to say if you are being refactured by a teaching society by some financial obligation that you have already paid VAT, it charges you a full amount of that amount again with VAT and whatever VAT is in the power of the Ministry of Finance, but the Croatian Non-banking Financial Sector Agency must react because it cannot charge tax twice. It's just a fact. The fact that Croatian citizens have to pay because if they don't pay, you know what's going on, certain provisions of the contract are being violated and a Croatian citizen ultimately pays. But very interestingly, when you talk about the report on the work of leasing companies, you won't find one such failure, so if you control the leasing society, then you'll see among other things and a series of such invoices. It can be charged for VAT but on that part of the cost that has Leasing company for invoices, but if you're told, it pre invoices the cost of parking tickets or something else and if there is already a VAT you can't charge it again on that complete amount. But I'm saying, it's just a technical remark like this. And go back to voluntary pension funds. So they're the only ones who are constantly growing, who have 51 billion kuna property, they're the only ones who have invested in government bonds over the past years because that's for sure, you get a 5-6.5% contribution depending on how any issue is, but very interesting that these funds are now emerging as something that should be bought or monetized tomorrow, to be modern, Croatian highways. And at the same time, I may not have noticed, if it's written inside, I apologize, I think that HANFA had to mention that the biggest problem of these funds is neither the monetization nor the 51 billion assets, but because the separation for the second pillar of the pension had already to reach 8-9% and that with this withdrawal of 5% of pensioners who, I wouldn't want to scare anyone, in future times, would unfortunately have a very, very low pension. And that's something this report simply has to contain because if the HANFA is an independent regulatory agency then it must warn of certain things that will happen in the future, which are simply such, and ultimately, in the pension reform itself, it was said that there will be an withdrawal there by 2009, 2010 to the second pillar of pension growth of 8-9%. But no, in this report, you don't have a single word about it, but it's about property, talking about how much pension funds have earned by managing that property, but there's no telling how much these pension funds lost in the first year of the economic crisis. So, we're just running away from the facts and we're running from the truth because like the various losses in 2009, when the economic crisis started, that's how these pension funds lost. And now why did I mention the monetization, why did I mention these pension funds? So we're going from hollow to empty again because today-to-morrow when the problems with paying off these pensions come up again, there's going to be pressure on the state and the state budget that pensions are small. To be honest, if someone believes that the pension funds can be better managed by the Croatian highways, why does this model not give to the Government and why the government does not offer it as a voluntary contribution to the restructuring of Croatian highways and that the restructured Croatian highways in the hands of the Government are good quality and good management tomorrow and solve their financial problems because if it is not something that is in a state in Croatia, then the question is how will it be able to be someone who is not left but in the right or not in the right but in the left pocket. So I simply believe that, along with this report that has been technically done, I can say well, I had to answer a number of questions more about what we are in the 11th month of 2013 and the conditions in the non-banking financial market conditions in the Zagreb Stock Exchange have changed and I just think it would be good to be told. But I'm saying it's obviously not for some reason. But colleagues and colleagues ask you all the question of who is smart in the moments where one of the strongest Croatian companies is listed as falling, who smart proposes selling such a company to a team more than when you look at how much it is offered for the company. A hundred million euros are offered that will neither help nor save the state budget and offer some kind of capitalisation. But you know what "capitalization" means? That I, with 100 or 130 million capitalise on Croatia's insurance and since the state will not have the opportunity to give its share in capitalising my purchased share of some 43, four percent will jump to 59, 60% and practically with that recapitalisation I become the majority owner. Surely, given that it was announced and that there were official first bids in the government and two of the most favourable bidders to go on were chosen, it was logical that the head man of the HANFAs would also look back on that because he was appointed by the Government, etc. But it would be logical, given that he submitted a report to this High House that he gave us an explanation for these things, then perhaps the debate on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club would go a little wider, and this way we had to focus on just some things that we think are important because we think there is no basis, or even a moral right at this point to propose to someone to sell Croatia's insurance. Don't forget that 1800 and that year, she survived, so I guess she'll survive in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55244	Thank you. The esteemed Zlatko Tušak has signed up for this presentation. But as the meeting of the Bureau of Parliament is scheduled in 13.30 I will now interrupt the session and we will hear the replica at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55245	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue the debate. First we'll hear the replica of colleague Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55246	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Shuker, I agree in much of your discussion when you spoke about Croatia insurance that it is necessary to establish the real value of Croatia's insurance, because if we put this company on the market then we should also know whether we will profit or lose at the job. But something else I disagree with and what's the point of my replica, which is that part of your speech about mandatory retirement insurance where you indicated that you should see if the current 5% in the second pillar should be increased by the survival of the second pension column and those funds. I primarily think it's one topic that needs to be discussed more seriously, and given some experience, an increase in separation by the second pillar because we're talking about mandatory funds here, and we have private governance in most countries is not an increase, but a minor to a reduction in the rate related to that second pillar. Clearly, some people don't even have one. In addition to the increase, it came to Romania and Bulgaria, while some countries practically abolish the second pillar, such as Poland, Hungary and Slovakia. I therefore disagree in that section that we are giving such flat-rate estimates that we should increase the rate, and on the other hand, we have a budget-related issue in terms of pension cuts, and this is a much bigger and more comprehensive subject to discuss, and I am not about to bid in some way what rate should be increased for that second pension column.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55247	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55248	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Tušek, it's not a flatulence assessment. This is quite well calculated and calculated how much separation to the second pillar should be, that future pensioners have a decent pension. So it's a fact you can't escape from. Finally, a pension reform was made in the Republic of Croatia at the end of this calculation. Whether or not we should have a second pillar of retirement is a story that I have actually said since 2009 that will thus be reduced by 40 billion public debt of the Republic of Croatia, etc. Well, then, of course, those who have media in their hands, and that's how they welcomed it on the knife. However, this second pillar, with a 5% withdrawal, does not guarantee any safe pensions. It is a fact and, unfortunately, in five years' time, when the mass retirement of those in the second pillar begins, it will be confirmed. And since at this point we have four or five types of pensioners who have a variety of supplements because of some hybrid reforms in the walking system that were done in the pension system, then they invented various supplements to make up for these people, so what they belong to is that we understand each other. They don't get anything that doesn't belong to them. What belongs to them is to make it up to them in a certain way. It's just something that shouldn't happen to us in the future. And that's why I did mention some things when I was saying on behalf of the club that it was just meant to talk about them today. And the head man of HANFA was just supposed to talk about it. We can agree on some things or disagree, but all grades and estimates unless at least 8% of the second pillar of retirement, unfortunately, that pension won't be god knows what. And as far as Croatia's assets are concerned, it is certainly underrated and a normal man at this time would never sell it for that money.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55249	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, colleague Krešimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55250	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, Mr. Matek, colleagues and colleagues. We have the Annual report on the work of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2012. Although it is the end of 2013 we are discussing 2012 and there has been a lot of market developments in these months and this year, and it is certain that the situation is much worse on the market than it was in 2012. Uncertainty is growing, the macroeconomic environment is getting worse, and looking at this report and knowing the work of HANFA then surely they have a great responsibility, but also responsibility for the stability of the financial system that controls and controls and which should be managed in some way. What is evident, we had a report from the Croatian National Bank last week and we evaluated the work of a banking system controlled by the Croatian National Bank. But in this report, we have often touched pension funds, as well as other financial institutions that are important precisely in our macroeconomic environment, which is unstable and which are certainly shaken, shaken both by the European crisis, but also by what is happening in the Republic of Croatia, above all thinking about pre-fashion proceedings, referring to a large number of bankruptcys. And that's why it's obvious that this particular decline that we had on the stock market last year is 35% and it's worrying, it's also worrying about pension funds because looking at our pension funds that have fewer and fewer shares on the market every day, quality shares, it's certainly going to be harder to work every day and what we're afraid of in the HDSB, we're afraid today for our pensions right through those pension funds that we're going to have problems because we think that even at this point, HANFA is not doing our job well. In fact, he does it badly, not well enough when we talk about the control of pension societies. We can talk about insurance today, we can talk about compulsory insurance, life insurance, market shares and what is happening on the insurance company market. We can talk about reassurances for individual segments, and I think they're good. But when we talk about pension funds that grew last year, their volume grew but it is known that they are not paying what is waiting for us in 10, 20 or 30 years, but only playing with capital, investing in something they can and certainly opening up the problem. Looking at investment funds, looking at the fall of Leasing in the area of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the withdrawal of capital from foreign Leasing Houses that have been harvested in Croatia, then we can say that we are concerned about our capital market, but also about staffing. When we talk about HANFA personneling, then it is certain that a certain period should go by when someone from one, it was ZABA INVEST or the Supervisory Board AZ d.o.o. He's going to HANFA or tomorrow when he's going from HANFA to the same house or something else. So there has to be a period as it is in the banking system when we're talking about banking secrets, when we're talking about humanizing but also about individual surveillance. What we can often hear in the field is that some houses find out sooner when they are being watched, some do not know when they are coming into surveillance and that there is certainly a difference between certain societies that have a certain privilege alleged, and some do not. These are questions that we put before ourselves but also today and before this report when we talk about HANFA. What is evident today, information technologies are progressing. We have the OIB, we have the company's parent numbers, and we know exactly what are related societies in the Republic of Croatia. I think that in its analytical record, the HANFA could be much better controlled by connected people, connected societies because what we often feel is that exactly the funds of a clean balance sheet of individual banks that clean up the balance sheets of individual societies, which is not good because long-term uncertainty and risk is passed on to these funds. Therefore, analytical surveillance, which would be systematic, based on information available today through both records and home numbers and everything else, would mean better integration of analyticals, would be much more important than individual controls that come on the basis of either some anonymous applications or some signed applications. It is evident in 2012 that you had 50 controls, written 41 solutions to irregularities. I expected that in the introduction you would give the answers that were most often irregularities, or I expect you to say in your final statement what irregularities they were, which were the biggest problems in the individual systems that you control and what you predict will be a problem in this or next year's system. So you have to be HANFA and predict possible problems. But what we had a chance to see in the past years, following the work of HANFA or Mr. Samodola, we had the opportunity to see that two, three years later he reacted to a situation and then we have a situation where when we talk about share capital or some other things the situation can't go back. Therefore, HANFA must react much faster and more operationally to events when we talk about the financial sector and what they monitor. Speaking of funds, I'm sure it's the appropriateness of capital. Comparing the adequateness of the capital of insurance companies as well as pension funds but also of all other banking sectors then we can say that the banking sector is much more stable and adequate capital, but it must also be alarmed much earlier based on controls and when the adequateness of the capital of certain systems is not enough, we saw that one system was last year, I think it must be a much faster and faster reaction. We have often had in the past months and through the media certain stories that the funds have invested in certain societies that are now in bankruptcy, predicate and that the funds have problems with the payment or those investments they had in the past years, and they've been cleaning bank balances. Today is the same question, who invested in the Center of the Bank, which is the fund, who was connected and whose interest was it to invest in such a society? What is evident by looking at and falling of the capital market is an aversion of our investors to risk. Because we had a situation that people were also in debt by looking at stock growth in 2008, and in 2009 they were in debt in Swiss and buying shares when stocks grew, they didn't sell them, and today they became slaves. Slaves simply their investments, the unpredictability of the market itself. Which is normal. Therefore, the education of the citizens themselves, I think, is very important but also an indication of what is happening in all the segments that you control. In 2012, it was a difficult year, but we estimate that in 2013, it will be even harder, that your report will be even harder to write. It's chronologically complex, it's got a lot of statistics, numbers, but it's really important, what's being controlled and what are the irregularities. To talk about them in the Croatian Parliament, what are the problems and what is expected next years. One of the problems is the fair value of investment in compulsory pension funds, showing and fair value, and as shown at the end of each year. Looking at this report, we can say that it follows what's happening, but it's much more important that we get the chronology that these irregularities are and what you predict is going to happen in the coming years. Where do you expect the state to change legislation in some other way when we talk about pension funds, to make it easier to invest, perhaps share those opportunities for pension funds to invest in other segments, and it is known that everything is a market... and it will be harder to invest in the Croatian market what is called good shares, a share that brings income or that brings dividends. A little while ago, my colleague Shuker was talking about the sale of Croatia's insurance, and you'll probably give cold support to it, but I think it's bad. Therefore, such decisions that are strategic for the Republic of Croatia and the financial leverages that we still have in our hands do not contribute to the development of the Republic of Croatia, so we must believe in what income is made, which brings profit and keep it, it is family silver that will surely bring good RH. Therefore, criteria and criteria must be the same for all, and risk control must be the same for all. Therefore, the HDSSB will be restrained when speaking about your report from the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2012 because we are not sure that everything we have in the financial reports is fair, that what we have in the balance sheet is indeed fair and that we share our concern for the future and pension funds, but also in some other segments of financial services in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55251	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55252	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Matek, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going to express on behalf of the club doubts about financial indicators because it really should be one expert of financial experts in this, I really don't intend to interfere. I will accept a rather different-looking report as financial indicators are as they are, but I am joining all those that this report might look a little different, so that it can explain the individual situation of things in certain sectors that this HANFA report covers. The first thing that's really bothering me lately is that it's often in public that the financial sector calls itself the financial industry. I'd like that financial industry to create a new value and it's really an industry but it's not. The financial sector may be but the financial industry, it does not go, neither by any means, nor by substance they create a new value they will not, they will protect themselves, they will have interest, they will give, they will borrow money but that it will be a new value, profit, profit, all but new value, industry in creating products for the market for innovation, creativity, does not go. What's really missing here, I'm joining my colleague Shucker that he needed to explain in which position is the second pillar of pension insurance. And we should never forget how we started with that in 1999 or in 2002. that 2% of real salary growth was planned, that it was planned to be used for the development of the economy, that GDP was thought to grow and circumstances would be created so that an additional percentage could be reduced to the first pillar and increased to the second pillar. None of this happened, so we are constantly sinking deeper, while employers show no understanding that perhaps they could contribute to the care of their workers' pensions, perhaps part of the contributions they would make, and here we are in a position quite unembarkable because, of course, already in 2008, 2009 there should be time after pension reform to increase the isolation in the second pillar. The more time goes on, the more we can talk about whether it all makes sense or doesn't make sense because eventually these 50 billion can all be treated as public debt of the Republic of Croatia because everything in bonds or what little is in the stock is very risky. Look one renowned Croatian firm had a total debacle on the stock exchange and pension funds had no wish to do no one a negative or positive campaign, pension funds had those shares. So we're in that position when we really need to reconsider the situation. What's the situation now? So let's say a Croatian worker who has an average salary to get a thousand kuna pensions from the second pillar should allocate 300 thousand kunas. At the level of the average salary for this should be allocated to him for 88 years. If we had the perfect recapitalisation for a thousand kunas, it would save at least 35 years, that we would have great without stress without falling, etc. So I can make a mistake in these estimates a few percent worse, but it's about this story. What's the future? Are we going to have a solid pension from the second pillar? Probably not. And the HANFA report should deal with this and see what the stability of these systems is and for us, as parliamentary representatives, to substrate these facts and forecasts in the end. Second, page 80 speaks of pension insurance companies, briefly, three sentences that HANFA has exercised control. One word does not say that a pension insurance company is the only one that has two payments from compulsory pension funds and a few thousand pension payments from voluntary pension funds. Of course, this is due to the amendment of the Pension Insurance Act where second pillar users have been given the opportunity to choose a better right for themselves, and what they have saved back in the first pillar. And that's a fact and they really exist and they only do business under very difficult circumstances because of the sudden reduction in the number of pensioners. The second thing we have, or the third thing that I have a grudge against on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retirement Club, when you talk about expenditures you're talking about for employees of $29 million plus a few kunas for benefits, at least tell me how many HANFA has employees. Because if I take the average cost per employee is 12.5 thousand I turn out to have, I can calculate that we have 201 or 200 employees. But in the debate, it was said whether HANFA could respond to all the demands that the European Union would put before it and whether it could deal with it. So it would be nice for us to find out how many employees there are, as employees move, which is the structure of employees, we simply or I haven't found it, but we don't have a report. I am touching the next point that has been discussed, the consultative role of HANFA in the context of HANFA's advice. So, on the advice of the HANFA are all the people who deal with this. There is exclusively no independent financial expert other than people who deal with pension funds and insurance, etc., there are only two persons from the Ministry of Finance. And now HANFA has an advisory role to play. What kind of advice will he give? So in the context of business, there is nothing outside of it, everything is subordinated to the systems in which it acts under quotes as they like to call themselves the financial industry. So it's about pretty closed systems and everything that's on the side doesn't exist. I am also saying this in the context of my law, the law of the Croatian Party of Retired here which passed the first reading on a lifetime of severance or the purchase of a pension and which has received here support from all MPs prepared for second reading has received unanimous support, has been prepared for a second reading, I have a positive opinion from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy but in the Ministry of Labour on the bases, the opinions of the HANFA are being given a negative opinion. I mean, I don't understand why someone can't accept the fact that something if it's called a retirement pension is not a pension. And why everything gets loaded and worked, everything gets mixed up and the systems are very precise and they have to be separated. Why here is still in the report separate lying, separate insurance, separate pension funds, so it has to be. The systems can't interfere. I ask you, Mr. Matek, not to be the basis for someone doing negative opinions about the laws because yours is an advisory role and ours is a legislative role. And last thing I'd like to say is, I'm missing the litigation that HanFA got, or lost, and they're being led. Among other things, and because of the statements of the former HANFA leader, not you, you are very careful, I must confess in your statements where the litigation is being initiated. Here, no matter what I say, this is quite critical, be assured that this is in good interest to have better reports and better functioning of this system. I find the report technically correct. And of course we'll support the report as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55253	Thank you, too. And now the final word. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Peter-Pierre Matek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55254	Honorable MPs and MPs. So, as we heard, you had before you the Annual Report of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2012. It is certainly most important to point out that there was no systemic instability in the non-banking financial sector and that the business of the entities, the surveillance of HANFA was persistent. You saw all the details of the market situation under HANFA’s supervision in the report itself and the debate was already under discussion. So I'm just going to say here very briefly the most important figures for 2012. And I'll try to answer the questions that are in so far. Therefore, by providing investment services and carrying out investment activities, 10 investment companies and 19 credit institutions were engaged in Croatia in 2012. The number of investment companies decreases from year to year in the beginning of the crisis. So to answer the question, and in 2013 their business results are pretty bad and their numbers are likely to decrease. Transport on the Zagreb Stock Exchange is not enough to cover the costs of small, independent companies or to achieve sufficient return on capital expected by their owners. On the Zagreb Stock Exchange total turnover of 3.9 billion kuna was achieved, we heard that this represents a 35% decline compared to 2011. This is, of course, the result of the economic crisis and the financial crisis. However, there is also a trend in the withdrawal of companies from the Zagreb Stock Exchange. In the report, you could see that 20 of them were listed from the 2012 stock market, which is due to bankruptcy, which is due to the takeover, which is due to shareholders' decisions and this trend continued in 2013. There were 27 investment fund management companies active, they managed a total of 135 funds, open funds. Their property was, along with closed funds, slightly above 15 billion kuna. As a result of the harmonisation of the law with the relevant European regulations, it started working on the amendments to the capital market law and the creation of a new law on open investment funds with a public offering and the Alternative Investment Funds Act. The work was also attended by HANFA, and the laws came into force this year. Four mandatory pension funds operating in Croatia had over a million 650 thousand members. Last year, 4.9 billion kuna was paid, and their assets reached 51.1 billion kuna and a 25% increase compared to 2011. As for the comments on the supervision of compulsory pension funds, the draft new set of laws dealing with mandatory voluntary pension funds and... has been working since 2012. These laws should significantly strengthen the operating conditions of pension societies and strengthen the powers of HANFA in their supervision, and I hope that it will soon be adopted in the Assembly. 6 open and 17 closed voluntary pension funds had about 200 thousand members, and the net assets of these funds amounted to 2.4 billion kuna, a 21% increase compared to the previous year. I'll take a quick look at the insurance market. So in 2012, there were 27 insurance companies, one reinsurance company. The gross premium was 9.4 billion kuna or dropped by 1.1% compared to 2011. The insurance sector has also marked preparations for amending the legislative framework. The Insurance Act will need to be amended because of the adoption of this famous solvency II directive, which has already been delayed several times at European Union level and which makes very big changes for insurance companies in the risk management segment, and the Transport Mandatory Insurance Act was adopted in 2013. Since Croatia's entry into the European Union, insurance companies in Croatia have started liberalising so-called Car-response insurance. It is precisely because this happens in 2013 that there is no word in the 2012 report. In that part, it is the task of HANFA to ensure compliance with the laws in the promotional section, but also in the section concerning the sufficient premium to pay the damage. So the specificity of compulsory car liability insurance is that in the event that one insurance company is unable to pay off its damages, there is a guarantee fund and other insurance companies must pay the damages instead. As far as leasing companies are concerned, their assets decreased by 13.4% compared to 2011 amounted to 22 billion kuna while the factoring of companies increased the assets by 18.5% and reached 7.2 billion kuna. So we heard that leasing companies have reduced their business activities, and the number of newly concluded contracts has been reduced. We do not expect an increase of activity in the Leasing sector without a greater recovery of economic activity in the Republic of Croatia because of the nature of the business itself depends primarily on the purchase of capital goods and the purchase of personal cars. A working group has been appointed to draft a new Leasing Act, which also includes HANFA employees. The HANFA shall continuously monitor its control entities through the analysis of financial and other reports, and shall carry out 50 direct controls during 2012. At the 56th session, the Administrative Council adopted 1105 decisions concerning the decision-making process to correct established illegalities and irregularities in the business of surveillance entities, granting and withdrawing authorisations for work and licences, the adoption of sublegal acts, the issuing of opinions, etc. In 2012, where 27 indictments were submitted on the basis of the supervision carried out, I assure you that HANFA treats all societies equally without the privilege of anyone. During its supervisory activities, HANFA monitored and implemented legally established measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. The HANFA also receives and processes consumer performances, i.e. the user of financial services. In 2012, 187, the notions were received, sometimes directly, and sometimes taken into account during supervisory activities. On the basis of the submissions received, HANFA tabled 7 of the indictment proposals in 2012 and 2013. Since its entry into force in February 2012, the HANFA Administrative Council has made an initial amendment to a series of changes in business. This includes the adoption of a new statute, the establishment of a new organisational structure, the selection of the secretary-general, the establishment of the secretary-general's office and the promotion of information, accounting and all other business processes. We have heard the question whether HANFA is sufficiently capacitated to deal with the extremely increased volume of work carried by the European Union. I would say that for the time being, business reorganisation has just made it possible to do a significantly increased amount of work without increasing the number of employees. So in HANFA there are 144 employees, and that number hasn't changed since 2012. Employees are dominantly high professional equipment, economic and legal orientation. When I think dominantly, that means 125 out of 144 and 16 is a master of science. So we heard that the volume of jobs in HANFA was also significantly increased. As an observer, HANFA participated in the work of ESMA, it is the European Securities and Capital Market Supervisory Authority... European Insurance Supervisory Authority, Structural Pensions Insurance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These two institutions together with the EB with the European Banking Supervisory Authority and the ESRB constitute the European Systemic Risk Board of Financial Supervisors. HANFA has been a full member since 1 July 2013... In addition to significantly increasing the volume of work due to the participation in the work of these HANFA institutions, this has led to an increase in costs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2012, she paid membership fees to associations as an observer. In 2013 half as an observer, half as a full member, so in 2014 when the full member will be full member will be even higher. As for issues related to the development of the Croatian market, it should be said that at EU level, a single financial market should be created. And this process of unifying national regulations is precisely why it is so intense. An additional reason for such major and frequent changes in regulation at EU level is the desire to remove perceived causes of the crisis, the 2008 crisis. So I can now announce that in 2014 as the 12th and 13th years will be filled with new European rules that will need to be applied in Croatia. Here I hope that the report delivered has provided you with a detailed insight into the state of the industry, which is controlled by the HANFA or the financial sector, which is controlled by the HANFA as well as a wide range of its activities. And I thank you for your constructive comments. They will help us to keep the Croatian Parliament informed of our work even more fully in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55255	Thank you very much. And the replica has a colleague, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55256	Madam Vice President, Mr. Matek. I honestly expected that you as the head man of HANFA, given that in the opening part you didn't say anything, would give one assessment of the situation but simply your report requires of you and ultimately they deserve these parliamentary deputies. And you're the only one who has all the data on the piles and isn't at all controversial this technical part of the report. But given the situation, given the alarming indicators of transport in the Zagreb Stock Exchange above all, alarming indicators of virtually all institutions other than trade in government bonds and the income of compulsory pension funds. So, it's all negative and the logical thing was that you in your final, final address gave one assessment of the situation and your assessment of what's going to happen tomorrow. So it's something that simply if you already have the name of an independent regulatory agency then it's your job. That's your job. Because this data, with all due respect, each of us could see through, take it out on the Internet. But the agencies aren't set up because I wouldn't want to hurt you here, and that's not what I'm trying to do if we had some kind of mere school report. You as the head man of HANFA are simply the same as the head of the Croatian National Bank when you come here you simply control a complete non-banking financial sector. You need to give a status assessment here. If it were a normal situation, if it wasn't a crisis, then it wouldn't be so much or expected, nothing. But in such a difficult situation when the issue is actually at all we can talk about the single financial market, however, the question is what will happen to the Zagreb Stock Exchange tomorrow. You said yourself that several companies, 20 of them, had withdrawn from the stock market. So you simply had to give in your report the state of the non-banking financial sector with certain perspectives. And I honestly expected it from you in the closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55257	You can respond to the replica in a time of 2 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55258	The status assessment was given in the report. Here I can repeat the most important thing in that report again. So there was no systemic instability, the business of surveillance entities is permanent. The situation isn't dramatic. The larger decline is seen only in the part of the investment companies and the traffic on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. So, in terms of pension funds, there is a visible increase in both compulsory and voluntary. In the investment funds sector, a 10% increase. Insurance is stagnating at levels that have been reached in previous years, and I think I've now looked back at the final word and the leasing industry, so there's no need to repeat it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55259	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55260	Annual 2012 report Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. The debate on the report is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual Report for 2012 is hereby adopted. Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency." Please state by raising your hands on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most 84 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 8 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55261	We will now discuss - Annual report on the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency for 2012 The report is submitted by the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency on the basis of Article 13. Law on electronic communications. You've received the material into the boxes. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and you received reports at the session. On behalf of the Proposer, would you like to give an introductory explanation for the report? President of the Council Mr Drazen Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55262	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The Croatian Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications in 2012 continued its work on achieving regulatory objectives, principles on electronic communications and postal services markets. The objectives and principles include the protection of competition, the protection of users of services, and the effective management of limited national natural resources such as the radio spectrum, as well as the address and number space and established the annual work programme of HACOM for 2012. HACOM's emphasis is placed on promoting effective investment, innovation with the provision of competition and respect for the principle of non-discrimination, promoting regulatory predictability, preventing discrimination in the handling of operators, ensuring a high level of consumer protection, and effectively managing natural goods entrusted to HACOM. A particular emphasis has been placed on the development of wide-ranging Internet access and on increasing investment in infrastructure and in new technologies in the electronic communications market as well as on the preparation of the postal services market for full liberalisation. HAKOM, in our opinion, has met the objectives set out in the Annual Work Programme and has provided conditions for stable business in electronic communications and postal services markets while at the same time the level of consumer protection is significantly increased. The HACOM Focus also focused on the achievement of the tasks defined by the Strategy for the development of broadband access in the Republic of Croatia and the implementation programme of the Strategy for the development of broadband access in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2012 to 2013 as well as on the implementation of the HACOM Internet development programme and broadband Internet access in areas of special state concern, mountain-mounted areas and islands. Work has continued to strengthen its own capabilities and the benefits of end-users through further development of the E-Agency, professional training and use of funds from EU pre-accession funds. Among the many activities undertaken to develop the electronic communications market in Croatia, HACOM specifically stresses the following: the allocation of digital dividends to mobile communications operators opens up opportunities for significant investment in infrastructure and the development of new applications and... availability of fast and broadband internet access to a larger number of citizens in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia with a special emphasis on access in rural and less developed areas. In doing so, a one-off fee of 300 million kuna and an annual fee of 32 million kuna will be collected in the National budget of the Republic of Croatia which will continue to be paid until the end of the licence in 2024. So, another 352 million kuna. These days, with the remaining third of the digital dividend, the state budget will be richer by around 370 million kunas of which around 210 million kuna will be paid into the state budget this year. In the last year, HAKOM launched state aid for the development of a broadband system in rural areas according to the HACOM Internet development programme and broadband Internet access in areas of special state care, mountain and mountainous areas and islands included in the Development Strategy programme in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2012 to 2013. The aim and purpose of the support is to balance regional development, bring together target groups such as school, health and public institutions on a network of broadband Internet access and introduce services that dynamicise the economy and improve the quality of life in those areas. By defining the single transfer procedure of end-users from one operator's services to another, the mutual rights and obligations of the operator in that case have been evened out. This unique demand and compensation is an additional step in improving competition in the Republic of Croatia. The question of determining regulated prices is globally accepted by the cost methodology of the model is of crucial importance for all participants of this market, so the model cost project enabled among other things the calculation of the actual cost of the services of individual operators and the project was completed this year and now most wholesale operator prices are based on the benchmark model. In line with the implementation programme, the Strategy for the development of broadband Internet access in Croatia for the period until 2015 HACOM established a continuous monitoring of possible difficulties related to the neutrality of the connection with complaints of users of services on blocking or slowing the speed of Internet access as a assumption of smooth development of applications and information society services and was created and released into the work of HACOMETAR helped to measure the speed of broadband internet access. According to official data on the electronic communications market last year, a total revenue of over 12 billion was achieved. More specifically, 12 billion 327 million kuna, which is a 7.5% drop compared to the year before that, to 2011. The cause of further decline in total income is higher. In the opinion of HACOM based on similar examples in the world, the key causes of the decline in total income are, above all, increased competition on the market and taken regulatory measures where the users of services now pay significantly more for those services they use, where the unit price of the service has been significantly reduced. In addition, the cause of the overall decline in market income lies also in the recession in the Republic of Croatia as well as the environment and the slowdown, and I would say to the operator's delusions that by reducing investment and without innovation in the network, they will achieve greater revenue in the near future. The fact that the market for electronic communications in the Republic of Croatia during the last year records the development of broadband services of interactive television is merely a confirmation that revenue growth is where new services are located, and evidence that total revenue in the electronic communications market has increased by 3% from internet access services while the television content market is a segment of the electronic communications market that records constant growth. However, due to this reason, this growth was not sufficient to compensate for the decline in revenue from other services such as classic telephone services in mobile and immovable communications networks. There has been a trend since the previous years but what we have changed in the trend compared to the previous years, which is that a significant increase in investment compared to 2011 has been observed in the past year and this is slightly more than 43%. In total, around 2 billion kunas were invested, of which three quarters of 75% of that amount was invested in telecommunications infrastructure and equipment. So investments per capita last year amounted to around 70 euros, much more than in 2011 when they stood below 48 euros. And with this investment of around 70 euros, we are approaching the European average, unfortunately still on the bottom. Given that investments in new technologies today that could compensate for the decline in revenue in traditional communications services are only a few years from now, we expect a further slight drop in total income. So it's a trend that is also in Europe and some increase can only be expected since 2014, possibly in 2015. What is encouraging is that in 2012 there was an increase in the interest of innovation operators or for the implementation of new technologies, so operators launched a whole series of pilot projects for long-term development technology, new... networks, new... approaches and multimedia systems based on IP. The total income from classical telephone services in fixed communications networks is 7.7% lower compared to last year, and the fall in revenue is due to the exchangeability of fixed public communications networks with mobile and increased use of broadband services. The number of services in the immovable public communications network continued to decrease and decreased by about 10% compared to the year before. The revenues were also reduced by around 11%, and the reason was that in 2012 in the middle of the market they marked new priced tariff packages for most end-users. Currently, most of the revenues of mobile public communications network operators are based on telephone services, but the growing popularity of so-called. smart phones that suppress classical mobile devices have led to an increase in the use of scyroposal internet access services in mobile communications networks. The number of users of mobile communications networks decreased by 2.81% compared to 2011 and while this reduction from 2011 to 2010 was primarily due to changes in data collection methods from the HACOM party which was in line with the international standard, the decline in the number of users recorded at the end of 2012 was primarily caused by the fact that most users who simultaneously used even two or even three different Sim cards, during 2012, only I decided on one Sim card or one operator. At the retail level HT continued to hold its leading position, the second is VIP-net while the third operator of TELE 2 has significantly increased its market share compared to the same period in 2011 in view of total outgoing turnover. Internet use today represents an irreplaceable part of modern society and inevitable support for the development of an information society, and the technological basis is electronic communication infrastructure based on broadband Internet access. The latest broadband services, e-Health education, TV via IPTV Internet protocol, and work from home and others require adequate transmission capacities that can be achieved through light source access infrastructure and relevant wireless technologies of the new generation. ... the growth of this part of the market is visible through the continuous increase in total revenues from Internet access services and the total number of connections over all previous years. In fact, the total revenues in 2012 increased by around 11% compared to 2011 amounted to 2 billion 340 million kuna, while the total number of connections in 2012 amounted to over a million and 200 thousand connections, which is about 6% more than in the previous year. In the development of broadband Internet access in light-based access infrastructure, a larger share is taken from broadband access through a mobile network, which also shows the constant growth of users of broadband access services to this access network. At the end of last year, 326 thousand 335 broadband connections were recorded for... services which is 13.33% higher than at the end of 2011. The reasons can be found in traffic growth, strong services, attractive prices, a large number of available devices and user demand that it always has access to the Internet regardless of the time and place it is located. While, according to the number of connections in fixed communications networks, they are still far from the European average. When we talk about the density of connections on mobile communications networks, we are here at the level of the EU average. Mostly, the number of broadband internet connections through a network of immovable communications gave an average density of about 21% while the density in mobile communications networks was around 7.6%, which gives a total density of 28.4%. Trends in the density of subscribers in one and other networks continued in 2013 as evidence that despite the recession that electronic communications or telecommunications are one of the more vital branches of economies in the Republic of Croatia. Regardless of the increase in the number of users, there is a space for even stronger growth in this segment, especially in the area of the light source network. This growth is necessary among other things because of the danger of deepening the digital gap between the Republic of Croatia and EU member states. What is a problem in the Republic of Croatia is a significant regional imbalance in number and density of broadband internet access in the immovable communications network and this is a fact that at the moment represents one of the biggest challenges for increasing the density of connections at national level automatically one of the most important tasks of HACOM to address this problem in cooperation with other factors in the Republic of Croatia. As much as the availability of broadband internet access is daily higher there are regions above all rural areas and islands where it is difficult to expect that in the near future it will have a broad-ranging approach without the active involvement of the state in projects to spread broadband internet access. I am going back to this development programme of broadband Internet access launched by HACOM with the approvals of AZTN and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is a 100 million kuna support programme that was partially implemented in 2012, continued in this year and will continue in the coming years so that we expect that we will have the first visible results by the end of this year. The overall digitalisation of TV content broadcasting led to the growth of the TV programme's transmission market, with compensation paid, so last year there were about 41% of households in the Republic of Croatia that used the TV programme's transmission service with the payment of fees to one of the operators, which shows that citizens are regardless of the reduced purchasing power and the fact that they already pay one TV fee prepare to pay TV content and are willing to pay for an additional service that provides them with a certain quality. The large share of households still uses the digital terrestrial signal for receiving TV content and due to the growing demand for service packages, it is expected that the number of connections will grow through other technologies because operators will connect the internet from transmission services due to the growing preference of end-users for the service package, with the payment of fees. At the end of last year, a service of advanced EVO TV from Happy's production of transmitters, connections and Croatian mail, which is a new, unique service on this market, appeared. At the beginning of last year, a public debate was held on the allocation plan for frequency bands from 880 to 960 megahertz and from 1710 to 1880 megahertz, after which the plan was adopted. What is important for the development of the market is that this plan allows the use of all known technologies approved by the international telecommunications union. And above all, the technology of long-term development or LTE, which makes us one of the first countries in Europe and the world to use this technology commercially. During the last year, two new networks of terrestrial digital television were released using DVB-T2 standards that transmit multiples C and E signals with MP4 standard, with conditional subscription to Pay TV, are already on the mentioned EVO TV. What is certainly not good, it is that much of the work that is related to spectrum control again referred to the measurement of interference by the Italian Republic above all in the area of Istria and the entire coastal area of the Republic of Croatia. According to the measurement plan, all envisaged measurement campaigns and other measurements were successfully carried out in... a spectrum with an emphasis on protection against interference. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Extensive measurements across the coast and islands aimed at monitoring the derecognition from Italy resulted in the sending of new 680 international reports to the Italian Republic administration. Italy did not remove any interference from those reported in 2012. In this respect, we have continuity because it was not resolved in 2011 either, so now we have about a thousand and a half interferences that have been reported, but we do not continue with the help of the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia and international organisations, we are trying to find some solution to this big problem that has been present for years, above all, in our coast. On the postal services market in 2012 there was a decrease of around 3.5% compared to last year and of the total number of services on the market, Croatia's mail achieved a share of around 67.5% while the remaining providers achieved the rest. At the end of last year, 21 postal services providers were registered in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a licence or, or a registered application. The total turnover of all these donors in the past year was close to a billion and a half kuna and was 4% lower compared to 2011. However, this trend in the reduction in postal revenues has been recorded in most other European Union countries. Croatian Post Office is a provider of all universal postal services and has the right to... services throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, unlike the other three providers who have been granted a universal postal service permit including the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia and do not include all universal postal services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The universal postal services other than the Croatian Post Office in 2012 provided two other providers of a total of 3 with permission. However, their results on the total market are almost negligible in statistical data. Approximately 90% of all universal postal services were reserved universal postal services, which is about 1% less than the previous year. The total number of postal services, other postal services seem to be a share of around 45%, which is approximately 4% more than in 2011. And there is the share of Croatian mail 28% while the share of other donors is 72%. In this segment of the postal services market, Croatian mail recorded a 2% decline and looking at the structure of the total postal services achieved and other postal services with added value account for approximately 52% of all other postal services. As of 1 January 2011, according to the Law on Postage Services and the Regulation on the provision of universal postal services, the Croatian Post Office is obliged to provide all users with one reception, one delivery of a postal consignment to the home address or to the premises of any natural or legal person at least five working days a week, and this is done by Croatia at 90.34% of households in the Republic of Croatia. Because the Regulation and the Law on postal services allow a maximum of 10% of the total number of households whose obligation does not exist. The Law on postal services prescribed the obligation to perform the accounting work of all postal service providers, and in particular the Croatian Post Office as a universal service provider. I HACOM has also withdrawn funds from the pre-accession European Union funds under the IPA 2009 programme for the HACOM support project accounting separation for the postal service area. This project was completed in 2012 and the key result is the accounting separation manual of cost accounting which was implemented in 2013 following the adoption of the new Postage Services Act. When we talk about the quality of universal postal services, measurements have been carried out according to international standards and have shown that not all prescribed quality criteria of independent continuous measurement of the quality of universal postal services on domestic transport have been implemented for the transfer of priority and non-priority written e-mails and, according to the independent measurement of the priority testing of consignments, they have not been transferred and delivered within the prescribed time limit. It is also interesting to note that during the last year, Croatia had about 23100 complaints from the users about the provision of... postal services in domestic transport, 98% of which was resolved within the deadline, and Croatia's own responsibility was determined for each 7th complaint, i.e. 3360 cases. During last year, Croatia's post office closed down a total of 84 post offices so that at the end of last year there were 1042. Consumer protection as the most subtle form of regulation of a market is, in fact, an expression of consumer confidence in the offered service market. If that trust remains at stake, any serious growth of the market will also be at stake. Last year HAKOM continued with intensive consumer protection, thus applying the principles of objectivity, transparency, non-discrimination and proportionality in the protection of competition, including a simple and accessible settlement of disputes and objections. HACOM pays great attention to preventive action, instructions and advice to end-users on how to protect and avoid the problem and create assumptions for open and simple communication with users. We have also achieved this through direct phone numbers, via the "Ask Us" section on our website via an e-application web site, and it has started implementing programming... under the name of the e-tariff which will provide users with the necessary information about the prices of public communications services as their changes, without delay compared to the offers on the market. In order to achieve a high level of consumer protection, HACOM has made and made available to users a tool to measure the speed of Internet access, so-called. an operator's failure to comply with the operator's contractual obligations in cases of too low internet access speeds. We can say that users are increasingly aware of the possibilities to exercise their rights in an objective way by resolving disputes before HACOM. The various objections were, in total, 2314 which was 30% more than in 2011, and the predecessors objected to the amount of the 1392 account with an increase of 23% and objected to the quality of the service with an increase of 70%, which again speaks of the increase in the level of consumer awareness of their rights. A group of objections which have disappeared in recent years, i.e. since 2012, are various distancers, meaning fraud, various prize games as a specially-separated service with a special tariff. As regards the settlement of disputes with users and operators of electronic communications when we talk about the protection of postal service users, there are differences because HACOM is defined as a second-degree body in accordance with the provisions of the Postal Service Act. This is why Croatia's post office had so many objections, of which only 49 ended with HACOM. Of these, 37 were resolved by the fact that 24 user requests were rejected as unfounded, 6 user requests were adopted, 4 requests were rejected, and 3 proceedings were suspended. Considering that children are in danger when crossing the road and that part of the service provider treats them as a market HACOM has intensified activities related to the promotion of child protection when using the Internet and electronic communications services, and thus HACOM joined the "Safer Internet for Children and Youth" action last year. As part of the implementation of this project, the number of services of social importance in the Republic of Croatia HACOM was primarily reserved with 6-digit short codes intended as a call centre for missing children, a call centre for victims of crime, a call centre for children, a call centre for medical and call center for emotional assistance that is thus harmonised with practice in the field of the entire European Union. Since a society that does not care for persons with disabilities is not human society, HAKOM continued to participate in the advisory mechanism of the associations of persons with disabilities, operators and HAKOM in 2012 and we have achieved certain shortcomings, above all with the Croatian Association of Blind Persons. In the context of international cooperation, HACOM has actively participated in the work of the international working bodies of the European Commission, in particular European regulator Berek, whose full member has been a voting member since 1 July of this year, then in the work of the Working Group of the International Telecommunications Union, CEPTA in the field of electronic communications and CERPA and the International Postal Union in the field of postal services markets. In 2012... more software applications focused on improving business processes, using Internet-oriented technologies, and the most important programmes aimed at increasing organisational and individual common regulatory capabilities were... postgraduate study of the regulation of the electronic communications market, the project "View into the Future" and the improvement of foreign languages, especially the English language. Finally, as of late 2012, HAKOM managed to implement the project was financed from European pre-accession funds totalling over 5.5m euros, and in 2012 there were currently two projects, already mentioned support to HACOM in accounting separation for postal services and digital television in JI Europe. And for the end of this opening presentation, I would like to point out that the HACOM employs 173 workers, of which more than 82% has high and higher professional equipment, the electrician engineers with 36% employees, 16% economists and 14% lawyers, and traffic science engineers with 12%, while 21% are employed in other titles, 4 are doctors of science, 19 masters of science of 173 employees. I note that HAKOM is not a beneficiary of the state budget but is financed by fees from market users which it regulates and accounting is managed in accordance with the accounting regulation of non-profit organisations, electronic communications laws and the Law on postal services. The total income of HACOM in last year was close to 110 million kuna, while the total expenditure of HACOM was 96 million 374 thousand and 47 kuna. HACOM's total investments were slightly more than 17 million kuna, and the non-performing financing from 2012 was transferred to HACOM's financial plan in 2013 and was primarily used to support the development of wide-ranging access in rural and less developed areas. So that money goes back to the market as foreseen by the Electronic Communications Act. In 2012, 4 and a half million kuna were paid out, and by the end of 2016 HAKOM will return about 95 million kuna to society and the market. I would also point out that, in accordance with the applicable legislation, HAKOK charged nearly 800 million kuna in 2012 in favour of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of compensation for the right to use radio spectrum, address and numbers, and compensation for powers and licences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55263	Thank you very much. Now we'll hear the replicas. Branko Box, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55264	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You told Mr. Lucic in 2011, 2012 if I remembered more than 1500 applications in the name of interference by the Italians and none solved. Since we have become a full member... It seems to me the answer to how to avoid an existing situation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know and I live in this place that we have distractions every day, but my mother pays the TV fee neatly, but there's no quality service in return, no program. Regardless, she doesn't care if it's the transmitters and the connections or HTV or someone else entirely third. Please give us an answer when will it stop?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55265	Will you respond immediately? Mr. Drazen Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55266	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Parliament. Thank you, Mr. Parliamentarian, for asking. I agree, I apologize, that's a problem from before. It is a problem that we have raised to EU level these years. In particular today was the same meeting with representatives of the Italian Republic and our Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs here in Zagreb. Because what we have addressed to the EU and also some of our representatives and advocates in the European Parliament are not giving results but are returning us to a bilateral conversation with the Republic of Italy which is certainly not a solution. We tried through the International Telecommunications Union a few years ago, directly through the Secretary-General of Dr. Toure and Mr. Rasia who sent Mr. Berlusconi to the then Italian Republic's prime minister also asked when he would begin to resolve these issues. We got a lot of promises. However, when it came to fulfillment, there was nothing out of these fulfillments. We continue in parallel in cooperation with the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and through organisations belonging to the European Commission, the EU and through organisations belonging to the international telecommunications union, as well as bilateral multilateral co-operation with colleagues from Slovenia and neighbouring countries, to put pressure on the Republic of Italy to give us concrete plans when it will start to shut down transmitters and stop broadcasting on frequencies belonging to the Republic of Croatia that are actually our national good. However, the problem is that HACOM has no way of punishing someone who is not in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. If this were done in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, our inspector would go and immediately shut down that transmitter within 24 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55267	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55268	Thank you, Vice President. Well, Mr. Lucic, since you have now highlighted the particular importance of Internet services in the presentation of the report or in the report itself, I will only briefly refer to one aspect of this part, which is new services or computerization in the cloud. Here in the report you stated, I can also agree with you that there are dangers that this problem must be approached with caution because there is a risk for domestic companies dealing with such services. And what seems a little rough to me in the report that can be done great damage to the domestic economy because I think cloud computing can still benefit the economy either through offering resources in terms of software solutions, the development of these softwares, either in terms of hardware solutions, so computer resources. So I think that although this approach is cautious, even though it will also be cited here as a balance between a strict approach and a soft approach, I still think it should work much faster here because it could allow many companies to have much cheaper access and resources, and then the software solutions themselves. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55269	Would you like to answer that? The answer to the replica Mr. Drazen Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55270	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I thank Mr. Assembly MP for this comment. You are right, however, I would point out that this is a multidisciplinary area which is, for example, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and some other agencies must be involved in order to quickly reach the solution that you have said. But I'm sure Hacom will take that into account. But we are simply focused on co-operation with other agencies, bodies that have to support solving this problem, or regulation of this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55271	And Joseph Salapic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55272	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Lucic, in your report, you said all of that. We got the report and the written way. I only have one question about the postal services market. We are witnessing the full liberalisation of the market and the obligation to do so in view of the accepted rules of conduct within the EU and the negotiating chapter. However, while Croatia had the full right to reserved postal services it had of 99... 66 percent share. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's where I stress the unfair competition that entered the field of services she shouldn't have. Now I'm not talking about the operators. You know that better. What worries is how to provide new regulations and laws in accordance with the sustainability of the universal postal service. And secondly, what will happen to this network of removal of postal offices, it says in the 2012 report that Croatia's mail had to close 84 post offices. Now there's a tendency to be more closures. It is an ongoing process in Croatia's post office. I ask you in view of the availability of services, since this is an obligation and protection on your part that postal service should be available to everyone in particular in the Slavonia area when it comes to end-users in those rural areas, pensioners who receive pensions through mail, who are used to paying services and bills in post offices. What's going to happen with that netting? This reduction of the network also means the inaccessibility of services to end-users especially in these areas where people are used to it. So this is something that falls within the scope of the Agency's work in which it will be prevented in view of the observed habits of the population. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55273	Replication response, Drazen Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55274	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would like to thank Mr. Parliamentary for these two questions. A new Law on Postal Services was completed on 1 January of this year, conditions for full market liberalisation and data to be published by HACOM will suggest that Croatia's post as a specific universal postal service provider has increased its share on the market. So you'll see it on Friday when it's official. Which is still a sign that this new law has given some kind of shift. This issue of closing the post office is not only in the past year but also in this one, and it will be in the future. However, the fact is that mail can be closed by over 200 other offices and has not done so. She did not make us as HACOM, and if we talk about the sustainability of the universal postal service although... only in Zagreb, Osijek, I do not know in Split, Rijeka and larger cities then it is not a universal postal service. Thus, we as the National Regulatory Authority, regardless of certain financial negative indicators, are taken into account that the sustainability of the service is directly linked to the number of postal offices, especially in the rural area and in the islands. And surely, under our jurisdiction, the National Regulatory Authority will not allow a purely statistically satisfactory indicator without actually having a sustainable universal postal service.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55275	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First in line on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55276	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, esteemed Proposer. Well, at the beginning, we will say that the HDZ Club will not support this Report from the Croatian Post and Telecommunications Agency, and through the debate we will try to explain why. Otherwise, as regards the text itself on 164 pages, it should be honest and said that it is really widespread, it contains everything that should be contained except for one small remark, which is that we do not have an assessment of the situation at all. the impact of such a policy being conducted as you say liberalised markets and telecommunications and mail on the services that citizens receive and how this affects their standard at all. This concludes that everything is great actually, the citizens are paying, HACOM records it neatly, the state budget of 400 million kunas more revenue than in 2011 and the situation is excellent. And the fact that this is the market, and we see from the report, almost 3% of the total GDP of the Republic of Croatia, is about $12.5 billion a year, and that's a billion and 100 less than in 2011, that's already a signal that needs to warn us about something. We didn't hear that. And since those billions and 100 have affected that 2% drop in GDP in 2012 we haven't heard that either. Well, let's do it in a row. As far as electronic communications markets are concerned, according to official data on the market, total revenue of 12 billion and 327 million kuna has been achieved, which is 7.5% lower than in 2011. We heard from you that this is the cause of the crisis in the world, the recession, the slowdown of operators in terms of investment and innovation in the network. Total income from telephone services in the immovable network at the end of 2012 is 7.69% lower, we are talking about a fixed network. It is expected that the number of phone users in the immovable public communications network will continue to fall over the future period. In 2012, HT maintained its leading position in providing telephone services in an immovable public communications network. And it will certainly last for the next decade. As for mobile networks at the end of 2012, around 11% of lower revenues were recorded compared to the end of 2011. In 2012, new priced tariff packages were also marked for many end-users who affected the operator’s final incomes. We can accept that as one of the reasons for those less than a billion and 100. At retail level, HT maintained its leading position while the third TELE 2 operator significantly increased its market share compared to the same period in 2011 in view of total outgoing turnover. Roaming services are cheaper than this year since the day of EU entry. As regards television services, the universal digitalisation of TV content broadcasting has led to the growth of the television broadcasting market with the payment of compensation. At the end of 2012, about 41% of households used the TV broadcasting service with the payment of the cash to one of the operators, which shows that citizens, regardless of the reduced purchasing power and the fact that they already pay one TV fee, are willing to pay additional TV content. As regards postal services markets in the postal services market in 2012 a total of 343 million 860 thousand services were achieved, with the number of services reduced by 3.5% compared to the previous year. Croatian mail achieved a share of 67.5% while the remaining 20 donors achieved the remainder up to 100%. If we compare the number of services delivered to HP and other postal service providers during 2012 compared to the previous year, the total number of services provided fell by 9% while the remaining providers increased by approximately 10%. HP also remained a leading postal service provider in 2012 but decreased its share of the total postal services market by approximately 4%. In domestic transport, 323 million services or 94% were delivered. In incoming, international incoming traffic of 13.3 million or 3.9% and in international outgoing traffic of 6.7 million services or 1.9%. It means that most of our HP business only happens on the part inside of the Republic of Croatia. In the structure of all the postal services obtained, the universal postal service accounted for approximately 55% of all services and the rest of the postal services remained. The postal service providers in 2012 showed revenues totalling billions and 464 million and 786 thousand kunas which are 4% lower than 2011. In 2012, we received both 23 000 and 100 complaints from the user on the provision of a universal postal service in internal transport, from which 98% solved within the deadline and admitted his own responsibility in each of the 7 complaints cases. During 2012 Croatian mail closed a total of 84 post offices which were closed at the end of 2012 at 1042 almost 10% of postal offices closed in 2012. Let's get a little bit more specific. As for the total revenue of the electronic communications market, I already said 13 billion 332 million in 2011, 12 billion 327 million in 2012 means a billion and 100 million less. Phone users in the immovable network, total number of them a million 454 thousand 133. 240 thousand less users in a fixed network in a year. Incomes 3 billion 338 million 2011, 3 billion 81 million in a fixed network. Phone users in the mobile network 4 million 971 thousand 351, 2011.There were 5 million 115 thousand 140 so there are fewer of them somewhere for 140 thousand in mobile networks. Total revenue from the Internet access service 2 billion 109 million kuna in 2011, 2 billion 340 million kuna in 2012, an increase of some 230 million kunas from Internet access. The number of connections increased by 66,000 compared to 2011. When we talk about Internet protocol-based television connections, we have a total of 366 thousand 974. These revenues increased by only 7 million kuna compared to 2011 when they amounted to 455 million kuna. But what concerns us especially less about this part of telecommunications and that market is where the state profited we see it in the budget of 400 million kuna more and the famous rule that we didn't really agree with as well as some operators. You claim there's more investment, by what we see, I don't think there are, and the revenues have fallen by a billion and 100 that's very visible by number. What happened to the Croatian Post Office? You yourself have made a new Law on Mail where and in this House you wanted to help this state-owned company, they have proposed amendments different we remember this and the mail has been given its right to universal service. What happened in a year? From 1126 post offices at the end of 2012. 1042, 84 post offices closed and I will only list them where most in Split-Dalmatia County 12, in Sisak-Moslavina 6, Primorje-Gorski 7, Osijek-Baranja 7, in Ličko-Senjska 2 in Koprivnica-Kryzeva County 6, Karlovac County 10, Dubrovnik-Neretva County 6, Bjelovarsko-Biogorje 6. That's 10%. You say they have the right by law to close and another 100 or 200 because someone allows them to. But what happens when your arrangements are closed? This is the issue in which the Croatian Post Office is located today. And then you find in the report I read a sentence that you wrote "Because the new way of business organisation did not bring users into a more unfavourable position compared to the previous organisation or because the prescribed quality of the performance of HACOM's postal services has not been violated with the proposed closure of the postal offices. During 2012, hundreds of postal offices have changed their working hours with the most changes in working hours that are explained by the optimisation and unification of working hours with adaptation in Article 11(1). Regulation on the provision of universal postal services. There has been no more significant violation of the quality of the universal postal service." We disagree, and that is also the number of complaints that come in just one part of you. They grow and there will be more. We counted almost 23 thousand 100 objections. As for the employees and this is very clear, we have in HACOM a total of 173 employees. Costs for workers 45 million kuna for 173 workers at the level of the year. rents and rents 8.5 million kuna, intellectual services 5 million 170 thousand, planned capital donations 58 million and 417 achieved 7 million 280 of the 58 million planned for 2012. And then we have a business result that says plus 13 million and 560 thousand in 2012 where they are part of electronic communications 12 million 600, and the part that refers to postal services is 947 thousand. The total surplus of the funds collected since 2008 is 97 million kuna, which you keep on accounts in banks armed and that it is annually only from interest 5 million kuna. This puts the meaning of the existing prices paid by citizens if we know that such money is kept in account. You yourself said 800 million kuna in favour of the state budget, 300 of which is a one-time fee under the assignment of a digital dividend. What can we conclude in the end? That Croatians are citizens who are obviously on-line daily that with the programmes of our digital TVs from HRT, NOVA TV, RTL, almost 370 thousand of them need to watch all other possible programmes through various packages to spend all or most of their time obviously doing so, perhaps because they do not like it or have enough offers on it, although annually, for HRT citizens through RTT fees alone total a billion and 450 million kuna. So plus these 440 we're giving you for a variety of different packages, that's a billion and 900 million kuna to watch TV and what it can offer us. Of course they're making fewer phone calls, no matter what the packages are cheap, and in the mobile network, that is. In the immovable network remain slaves, I say these fixed fees simply how to get out of that system at all. And the government bought us 10 thousand 550 smartphones, but it happened to them, there was a little accident, so one gigabyte instead of 11 kuna per new one costs only 102.4 kunas, one dozen times more, and it's going to... I guess I'll pay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what might be the most controversial pay in the Hakum. The Council president's salary of 40,000, 700 gross as it says in the property card, the prime minister's salary is $39,850 per month, ministers 31,000,211 per month. Ten years rent in that skyscraper five thousand squares 111 million kuna. I think that's enough reasons for us in the HDZ Club to express one restraint and at least one hand, I say we'll be against this because we think that there's space in view of what's said here to reduce certain fees and make some of the benefits to the citizens because I don't see the point in not having to invest or not to invest because I say what's supposed to be realised is instead of 50 and only 7 and the citizens still pay their share and then the agency has a nice 100 million kunas that it's collected from the bank, and then we transfer it from year to year and we say that we're successful with these salaries that are more than all state officials in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55277	Thank you very much. Tomislav Klaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55278	Dear fellow Boric, as usual in your discussions, you tried to extract the data and they are literally accurate. However, I have called for a debate regarding the closure of the post offices you mentioned and the problem that concerns the units of local self-government. In my opinion, the little cynical management of the Croatian Post Offices threw this part of the problem related to the closure of postal offices on the units of local self-government, noting in its comment that the units of local self-government did not show interest in co-financing of such post offices and therefore they closed them down. The fact is that the offices that have closed them 45 in the Primorje-Gorski County are 7 of them to refer to areas and settlements in Gorski Kotar, in part of the islands and mainly in rural areas. We know what the postal office and the postal number means for any of our settlements and are not respected then our arguments when we negotiated with the Croatian Post Offices about these postal offices to stay, to watch the cumulative income in the entire area of units of local self-government. So cities and municipalities have 5, 6 post offices in different settlements, some do more than well. Some in that sense did not cover their own expenses. However, they all did well together. In this way, these postal offices are closed, and that is only one more time when we see the law being passed, or the Law on mountainous mountainous areas is abolished. What this will mean for local self-government units in the way of budgeting to impose units of local self-government and subsidisation and transportation of children to school, pre-school education all that is coming. And this section requires local self-government units to co-finance such post offices. I don't think that's good. And I think in the sense that a colleague from the HDSSB is in his The debate was mentioned in the sense of the closure of postal offices in such areas. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55279	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55280	My colleague Klaric, I understand what we're talking about because this is the 2012 closed 84 in 2012. And what happened in 2013 will only be learned next year when a second report is submitted and there will be many more. Why? It will be because the post office at the 8th month fired 1200 workers through a story about the restructuring of 1200 workers. And not from those administrative, let's say the administrative part of the mail, but the very mailman who did the field work and those who do the mail and work in the mail know what I'm talking about. Everyone works almost overtime and they don't get paid. And they don't get paid. Some division directors enter empty post offices to replace the non-existent ones who have left to provide such a quality of service as you are talking about and say that it has not changed. She's changed a lot. You will see by the number of complaints you will have for this year 2013. Why? Because mail can no longer physically reach some people and it is directed. And what's gonna happen is only when the HPB is privatized, we'll see about that. The new owner will want to do services in a way, i.e. Whether mail for him will perform services at the same price or he will look for something else. And who's going to make money and who's going to be guilty. And then we'll only talk about pensioners and those who get pensions through mail or directly to home addresses. So we'll just see where the mail is. But I'm saying, what started with that restructuring, we all know that this year's post office is going to show us the obvious and minus as a result of the layoff of 1200 workers, because the situation by showing people who work in the post office has become unsustainable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55281	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55282	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, dear counterpart Boris, since counterpart Klaric has already asked a question about closing the post office on islands and especially in areas of special state concern or should be a special state interest, I will also look back on the problem, and this is about the city of Zagreb and the post office in Hrgovici. The post office in Hrgovic, therefore, is the commission of 20,000 inhabitants. The municipality of Tresnjevka has 80,000 inhabitants and the removal of any such mail does not believe that it is inert, I read that it is a weak approach, etc., but 2 km away to open another post in one shopping centre is really very difficult for 20 thousand residents, especially when it comes to persons with disabilities, older persons and pensioners. What I'd still like from your debate, you've touched yourself and that's the suspension in the reality of making pensions through mail, especially when it comes to people who are so old that they don't get off their beds. The mailmen were their only link to the world, and that pension was the only connection to what they did in life. However, it seems to me that these layoffs of 1200 workers and you yourself have said it is about postmen who indeed every moment, most of them who do their job fairly only... and very often in difficult conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55283	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55284	I say, once again, I express my regret that it has come to the closure of 84 postal offices in 2012, and in 2013 we will understand how much it is and we and 20% of closed post office. Then we'll just see what kind of service these citizens have, and today I say very clearly from the data. In that post office, we saw for ourselves about a billion and a half kuna in the report. Just on television and these Internet connections 500 million, not to mention the fees paid for these other let's say the opportunities offered by telecommunications where the multiple amounts are greater. So we're dealing with the other one, and this where we care, where people live from giving him a certain service because the post office in one small place, in the village is what can replace the bank and all other needs because the post office and that part of the direction, let's say some mall. There's a lot of stuff in there that you can buy when you go into one post office. But what they started with their television, EVO TV, so I don't know how it's gonna work. It doesn't work at all and they all know that in the post office it doesn't work because simply regardless of any different model that they provide they don't have people at all that they can maintain it as a system and then someone buys it, but the accompanying service doesn't work. We all have a phone and a TV, and we all need to be daily connected to the world, but what I'm saying with the Croatian Post Office, and HAK looks kindly at it, I think it's wrong. In order for Mr. President of the Board of Directors to set things up a little differently because everything that's going on there can't be accepted to write a sentence like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55285	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55286	Thank you very much. Well, it's very interesting to hear that we've paid 400 million in the state budget. So who paid you that 400 million, Croatian citizens. Well, isn't it normal, then, that from the money that Croatian citizens have paid for certain services, some of the costs of some offices that simply can't function economically are covered. At the moment when the post office was allowed to compete, it was clear that they would not be able to finance certain offices, but we cannot talk on the one hand about the even development of the Republic of Croatia and we are practically cutting the breadth of the house because if you cancel the post office you practically gave people a one-way ticket, don't come back here again. So that's one thing. Comrade Boric, you mentioned you were digital television. It is very interesting how someone plays with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and no one reacts. So you get some kind of service package, then after two months you come up with some new program to switch to or the most attractive movies, the most attractive games, and you have to make up 60 kuna. Then they include it in your normal program, but at the same time they shut down the two programs that you paid for. Now who can you complain to, water management? HACOM has to react by default, simply by the function you perform you have to react, and this happens because look, this complete package is not cheap, it is 200 and something kuna. And the other thing, so we who have cottages at sea have swept us away on every possible and impossible side. Six months, you're the only one who can throw it. ... I like these proletaries from Belgrade. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So you've been asked six months to have a connection. Why? If there's something on the market I can have a month, two, three, how long do I need, why should I have to pay something six months? It's just that no one reacts to it, but it's simply made it possible for a fat goose to keep his neck dirty.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55287	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55288	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Shuker, I have made it clear how much Croatian citizens spend to watch the TV program, almost 2 billion, a billion and 450 HRT and 450 million to all these other operators and their packages. We've already talked a lot about all this, especially that Internet TV and the fact is that there's everything there. You take the sports package for a month they'll give it to you for a month and extend it neatly to two years and all two years will charge you for it because you didn't log it out. Let's just say HACOM should say something about me. How is it possible for you to take the package for a month so that after a month, they do not rule it out but they charge you neatly until you accidentally forget it or by your own free will decide to take it off, and you pay it 60 and something kuna per month. If it's something for a month then after a month, unplug it, so if you want to re-engage it. And not for a month, you want a package, and they extend it to you for two years because you haven't answered. When you answer the phone, no one's answering. Forget it. These are our realities. This is where HACOM needs it. You have such objections probably, I don't know. You'll explain that to us. But if we had to really do it today to look at something that we're willing to do as fellow Shucker said, then you'd pay for that package. There's a new package coming in a month later. No one's informed you. You just have to agree and pay this digital television neatly because this digital signal especially on islands doesn't come to all the houses and we're forced to Internet television. That's why it is at least 30% or 20% of this on the coastal part of the connection. People can't even watch TV Croatian but are forced to pay for the extra package, which is that you didn't take anything 140 kuna a month.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55289	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55290	Dear colleague, you spoke of how many post offices were closed and I agree with you that for every little place every post office was a symbol of life and there is nothing to add. But here's a pretty good number. However, here you also have a public statement that the American post office also faced this problem, and for their terms last year, a large number of 7700 post offices, postal services in America and moss have become numb right in smaller rural areas. And what was the explanation? People also discussed the public as well as you fellow Boric in this debate when you touched the close-up of the post office. And then the director answered the mail. We no longer want to raise people's taxes and to be paid by taxpayers we want to be self-sufficient and productive in our sector. That was an explanation. I think, and I agree with you, but then it's clear for some other times when we had a post office and a mailbox under every tree. But those times have passed forever upon your joy. I don't know why he... You can't have any combinations, you know I'll take out of this as a supermarket so I'll take from this system what I like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's just some things going on in the package. And indeed the only rational explanation is that criticism is justified, but the answer is that. Well, nobody locks you up because they'd want to. Because I agree with that, too. When you get to a small place where the old people are alone and when you close their mail, it's over. But what's the alternative? Bringing in more taxes?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55291	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55292	Thank you, colleague Ingrid, I'm glad we've at least agreed to something in these two years, even on that matter. But there are alternatives, there's money. 100 million kunas in the account armed. What are we doing with that money? We transfer it from year to year. So why don't you help that Croatian post office? Well, people pay for something. They're paying to have some kind of favor. Maybe that's not the best solution, maybe there are different ones. At the time of 2011, no office was closed. Then how could it? Well, it wasn't very good times either. I know, I remember trying to close mail on Pritchard. Well, that's where they all got on their feet. Well, it's a bank for them, all of it. It's their contact with the world especially on the island, and we're like this administratively saying so well 1200 at home, 200 offices shut down. We're a successful firm, we can somehow survive on the market, neat citizens pay your fees you have. We move that from year to year and we get interest on it, and then we're all happy, and only some, and especially PPDS, mountain and island are dissatisfied because they're rural areas. There'll be no one there to complain about. That's where they're rebelling! You'll see what happens there! Have those post offices close up a little bit more. For now, they've been doing it on the Gorski Kotar, they're a little quieter people there, they won't. But let them shut down on the islands, and you'll see what happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55293	On behalf of HNS representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55294	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. President of the Council, colleagues and colleagues. Here I would like first to commend the fact that the work of these two agencies, that is, this is the third debate we discuss not at half 11 p.m. but we discuss in the morning. These are very important agencies with a very subtle position on the market, with very large tasks and with regard to the provision of citizens with what they need, and with regard to their rights, which are little to know about because these are new agencies that have permanent professional independence, and yet are appointed by policies that must respect, of course, all the rules and laws, while at the same time warning the Government and its bodies of breach of certain regulations and laws. Therefore, it is important that the report on the work of these very, therefore subtle institutions and new institutions in our society be given special attention and discussed at 9 o'clock, at 9:30 in the morning and now in the early afternoon hours, and not of course in the night as it has usually been. This is what it was already said about when it comes to telecommunications alone about $12.3 billion. It is therefore a high amount and of course it is particularly important how this amount is spent. Whether it is spent in accordance with the laws and whether it is spent in accordance with the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because all that we are talking about is exclusively at the service of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Speaking about the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications in the part in which it deals with telecommunications regulation should see here the growth of revenues from Internet and television access services and, of course, the decline in revenues from services and mobile and mobile telephony, which makes it very clear that the way in which these communications are served, the acquisition of all content through these two media, hence the Internet and television, is increasing and, of course, it would be very important that this increase in these technical opportunities of these media comes in favour of public goods. And we know that the devil never sleeps and that he can go against it, and that is why in this part of the regulation and protection of consumer rights, the role of this agency that we are discussing today is important. It is also said that 41% of Croatian households are connected to TV networks with special fees, which raises the issue of HRT position. 41% of Croatian households are connected to some types of internet television with special fees. The question is how HRT behaves in such cases. It is theoretically possible that someone is not watching HRT programmes at all because they are available on these pay nets, and is obliged to pay also to HRT and, of course, to compensate for TV online offers. And that is one question that should certainly be thought about and see what to do with it. In fact, a citizen today has no protection, he is obliged to pay a television subscription even if he never actually looks at it or if he looks at it, looks over these internet televisions where they are offered and that fee is already paid by a man. Therefore, it should be very well considered how the issue should be well regulated so that citizens do not pay the same thing twice. To praise here is, of course, investment in new technologies and innovations that increased by 43% compared to the previous year. In these conditions, the reduction in total income comes, so I was talking about the revenues of internet and television, coming to an increase in investment by 43%. And that's not a small amount if that increase is relevant. It's about investing 2.2 billion kuna. And of course these are also new technologies and innovations that will then enable all users, both those end-users and those who use them in some way to hold a connection with new technologies. It should certainly be commendable for all these measures that the operator has stated in its report, and I will, of course, mention only those that I consider most significant because they seem to have the greatest public benefit, which is state support for the development of broadband Internet access in areas of particular state concern, undeveloped areas and islands, which is, of course, one of the secondary measures to achieve even development of the Republic of Croatia. And of course I support this measure and I support it to continue and strengthen this measure because balanced regional development is a very important thing for the Republic of Croatia. And of course I'll mention here making a single request and a transfer fee from one operator to another. So far, this has been an unregulated area, as well as the development of tools measuring the speed of broadband Internet access because our operators and service providers always charge you a fee. It's not just about television, there's talk about television, they always charge you a fee, and maybe in half a month you don't have adequate Internet access, or you don't have the right speed to do anything about it. That'll never cut your fee. And that is why it is good for this tool to develop, to measure the speed of broadband access so that hopefully afterwards, those who do not provide the citizen with the end-user with what they have signed, which they are obliged to provide on the basis of the contract that is concluded. Of course, I welcome the special protection of children, even if there is not much talk here about the measures taken, it is a very important and very complicated area. So all the applications and measures you're developing in this regard, of course, you need to intensify because it's a very important thing. That this technological progress that we are experiencing with the growth of broadband access and television internet channels is actually not reflected as ultimately damage rather than benefit for society. That is why it is good for you to develop these measures to protect children. Of course, an EU regulation that has long or long before us approached regulation of these issues, such as the roaming regulation that we are now applying to the EU, also very important and the application of these developed European regulations in this respect will be of great benefit to the overall telecom market in the Republic of Croatia, but it will certainly help our operator. That is why I point to this useful consequence of our EU accession. We are not even aware of the small, small, conditionality of the small useful consequences of EU accession. Here we are taking over the EU's developed regulations to regulate that market. Therefore, it will make it easier for our operator, and of course the service we will have will be better. Speaking about mail should be mentioned at least here is of course one topic in focus on which I will say shortly afterwards, that HP's income has fallen by 9% which is certainly not good data, and that the income of other postal service operators has been increased by 10% in the total drop in postal services. This certainly is not good data, but one negative picture or at least the opening of the question raises the following information that in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia the universal service providers were not only Croatian mail but two other operators who are not listed here with the obligation to provide services throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia which, of course, is more demanding but the share of these two operators who have universal service is negligible. What does that mean? Did these two operators play a universal service permit if their contribution to providing universal service in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is negligible, which could mean that they only used those areas where they are easier to come by, where they are made easier and faster, and in fact they have made their commitment by virtue of such status to provide postal service on the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. It's a very important question and I would very much like you to answer that question. But I'm going to say something about this most present issue, which is the abolition of the post office. The post office is probably the most widespread institution in the Republic of Croatia and it would be good to use those 1042 places not only for the provision of postal services but for the state somewhere in ideal development to develop a number of other services for which it is competent and not actually reduce the number of these offices. But it is easy not to reduce the number of offices and then cover Croatia's revenues or less income by those same citizens through the tax revenues they pay in the state budget, it is a simple policy but this policy is actually going towards reducing some of the other rights of those same people because part of their tax revenues is used for mail. It's not a simple decision, obviously it's not possible to quickly get to a more rational business that would then allow all these offices to remain and enrich their services, it obviously wasn't possible. But colleagues on the right about this point must remind me that what happens with the abolition of the office is the basis of the universal postal service regulation that began to apply on 1 January 2011, which means that it was passed significantly earlier, and then it is known who was also responsible for the operation of the mail and that under that regulation in the Republic of Croatia it is allowed that minimum postal service it means five days of working days a week, 1 shipment does not have to be applied to 10% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This is the rule adopted in 2010 and it started to apply on 1 January 2011 and HACOM here only finds that after the abolition of these 84 mails, the minimum standard for the provision of postal services is in accordance with the rule adopted during the HDZ administration and of course needs to be known. And finally one question regarding RF operators, it's a radio spectrum. This is an amazing fact here in the Croatian Parliament that MPs have asked the last two years as far as I've been following a dozen questions, one of which was my question about the availability of a radio signal I listed the areas of the southern slopes of Velebit, i.e. the underground area and the area of Peljesac somewhere around Orebić where you have 10 strong Italian stations and none if you have one and only listening Croatian station. And the answer was the Ministry, and it is likely that HACOM's reports were that this issue cannot be resolved and that of the 680 objections addressed to the Italian Republic or their competent authorities, none of them were resolved and that after a number of years of facing and warning us about this problem, with the existence of international bodies dealing with it, they should judge and judge that they are returning us to bilateral negotiations that never result in anything. It is one really worrying data and, of course, I can't get into the details of it and I don't know how something like that can happen, but I appeal to it to try to get rid of it through international bodies because obviously through the body of the Republic of Italy it won't work, and similar problems with Italian radio stations as far as I know next-door Slovenia. Finally, the Club of HNS Representatives will support this report with a small appeal or at least a note to try if you can at least simplify the dictionary a little bit, so that in this report read by MPs there are no terms such as the uncomplicated environment of the Republic of Croatia and migration to IMS technology. Try to say it in simpler terms, and we will hope you will do so and continue to do well to support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55295	Thank you. Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55296	My colleague Radoš agrees with your first part of the debate when you pointed out the illogicality of the RTV subscription relationship according to one law and then what we pay through this let's say one basic package of one operator because there for 960 kuna we can follow maybe in Zagreb twenty programs depending on the number of locals you can catch, in some areas you can catch 12 programs with us if you are in a good position and pay 960 kuna. You take the basic package of that operator that has all those 12 or 20 and another 70 and then you pay 804 kuna. Where's the logic? So either something has to change in the RTTV subscription system or something with these programs because if we're going to pay for a service one and the other that we have 1,700 kuna obligations, and in that we duplicate twenty programs where logic is there. I don't think so. And as for the termination of the postal offices, you say it's under the rule of 2010. Well, the rulebook can change not even the government. If he wants to, the law can change. If he wants to. Right? You got it. Why won't they? Why is it easier for him to fire 1200 workers and say it's restructuring. Eight months. At the 8th month when the season was still up, they didn't even wait 9th. It's at the highest peak when mail is the highest earning of 1200 people at home. Well, that's the wrong policy of the mailman. But the fact is that by 2012, they didn't stop regardless of that rule and that it was now abolished in 2012. 84. And two, three in the city and 80 in the rural area. And they don't care. Well neatly in Zagreb there are 50 post offices but let's say three islands none.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55297	The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh. Please take care of the weather. We have seven replicas on this exhibit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55298	Of course, what you've told your colleague, Boric, is that for the same money, for less money, you get a better quality of service, that it doesn't make sense. But that is why I particularly welcomed and hoped that this programme of state support for the development of broadband access to the Internet, and then including this dimension of television service providers would continue and that this would lead to the reduction of the anomaly. As for the rulebook, if you bring in a rulebook that you do not apply, then there is something wrong with your handling. It's better not to bring any rules than a rulebook that you won't apply. So the rulebook was passed with the intention of applying it with some logic. So this is about respecting the continuity of the policy that you've plotted by adopting that rule and now it doesn't suit you either. So I think it's better not to bring any document that you're not going to apply, of course, the law worse and the regulation because then you're just creating a mess in the legal system that you're trying to regulate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55299	Boris Blazekovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55300	Thank you very much. My colleague Rados clearly accepts the debate together, and you have also moved me to feel the injustice of paying double for watching the same programme. If you take cable TV and watch Croatian Radio TV via it and especially get a subscription to Croatian radio TV and thinks it's one of the most important topics that should be considered in the future. I'd just like to point out that you've also encouraged me with a broadband internet. In fact, Croatia has one of the slowest broadband internets in the world, and thus it is the most expensive for its users regardless of the price. And it's not just about our surfing by him, it's about doing business on the Internet because today the Internet is a tool of work. And the third thing that also prompted me to this replica is that there is no signal I also sent the remark you cannot get a Croatian signal on Silba, Premud and Dugi Otok and the entire outside part of the Croatian islands but only the Italians. And I'm also interested in why it's not possible to have the same frequency for the public. In particular HR1, HR2, HR3 why they do not have the same frequency throughout the Republic of Croatia, is that 92.1, 92.5, which is irrelevant but that it has an equivalent, one frequency on the territory of all Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55301	Tomislav Klaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55302	Here, my colleague Radoš, in his opening statement, you said well and I see that the other MPs have commented whether our citizen is paying his subscription to HTV and has this package of digital television in the remote control presses because he pays HTV and will now watch over the HTV antenna or there is both in this package. But I don't want to talk about it. Something else to me, it seems to me that the Law on Electronic Communications was passed somewhere in 2008 where HT was authorised to provide public electronic communications services, etc. And now we're coming up with something that local self-government units, regional self-government and I don't think there's a state that has to make any income with that basis. It's a water cataster. And about paying the service to use the land in general... Public goods owned by local self-government units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is persistently avoided by the one who is under the law, which I mentioned authorised to pay and use land, property of units of local self-government and finally bring an end and to get rid of that water cadastre not only in the narrow area of a particular county but it seems to be so in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. Someone was building television communications networks, someone had them used by someone to use them through these networks and optical cables that were placed largely during the war and then until this distributor came, or authorized to perform public and telecommunications now use them. Very few units of local self-government can charge at all because they do not know which areas are covered by cabled international cables to all that is in their possession. No service shall be charged as prescribed by law Local self-government units don't collect income, and I don't think the country does. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55303	The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55304	I agree with my colleague Klaric that this is a completely illogical situation which draws its roots from the time of privatisation of Croatian Post and Telecommunications when the issue of ownership and no compensation has been settled properly. The situation is even worse than you said because some units of local self-government are in charge of compensation over these telecommunications channels about ownership, some water around compensation for using these land, and some don't run any disputes, they simply let that potential income of local self-government units just pass through them. At the very least, the state level should try to address these installations of all public bodies, which are units of local and regional self-government being the same. At the very least, equal legal treatment and attitude towards Croatian telecommunications should be achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55305	Damir Rilje, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55306	Dear Vice President, Director, President of the Governing Council. My colleague Radoš, I heard you say at one point, you mentioned the donors who had played the universal service license, so I wanted to comment, and that was a little bit of an offer, actually, that was to be expected because all the time, since 2007 and 2008, we have been hitting on reserved universal services, and in fact there has been another major problem that nobody mentioned today, perhaps even mentioned until the end, and there is a problem in a large part of the postal service market, so one huge and large dubiosis from that area that I have mentioned now. As you mentioned, it also reminded me of a new law that I don't think will work out, because there's one way he's talking about universal service and another service called a replacement postal service and then we're actually starting to find ourselves again in the area where the structural company is going to do everything it has to do again, and someone else is going to be able to get through something third when we're talking about services, which means nobody's going to do what's not worth it, except who's actually going to be ordered, and that's Croatia's covering, so let's say from 2.2 billion at least 1.5 that we read, with a small drop of 1.5 in the last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55307	Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55308	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Rados, when you were talking about abolishing the post office, you talked about it as if it were purely business rationalization and in accordance with the rules, but I have to defuse you. I come from the town of Vodice and within the city of Vodice is the village of Srima. Since this year, we do not have a post office in this village although Croatian mail did not have the cost of renting space, they were exempt from paying municipal fees and any other fees, they did not have additional costs for employees. After four hours a day, the employee came from the office from Vodice and afterwards the Croatian mails were obvious to be operating with a loss of 20 thousand kuna per year and that was the city of Vodice ready to separate from its city budget. Despite all this, the post office in Srima is closed. It can't be said that the rationalization of business is the reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55309	Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55310	My colleague Juričev, I did not say in your case that rationalising business is because I did not know anything about it, but of course it was generally a motive to get lower costs and that the potential loss of this drive in the inability to achieve the quality of work is solved in such a way, and that was therefore the intensity and your administration because you faced this problem. In the specific case that Vodice is concerned, there is really nothing I can comment on and I did not claim that the case for abolishing the post office in Vodice is an example of rationalization.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55311	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55312	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague Rados, I'll look back on your exposure when you're talking about the rulebook and you've wondered what logic it is that doesn't respect that same rule. I'll repeat my question. I do not believe that it is safe in that rule that in a place of 20,000 inhabitants, this time it is done in Zagreb about the settlement of Hrgovici, that it is possible to close down a post office if the office building has not collapsed. I don't believe how you'd feel if in your part, in the neighborhood where you live, a post office was closed. I'm sure it's not good. On the other hand, I agree with you for talking about paying services to operators, i.e. I have to say that more and more citizens will be removed from T-COM or cancel services and telephones and the internet and offered packages because the smallest bills if not spoken about, and all of these services with VAT are paid somewhere around 400 kuna and God forbid you pick up the phone and call someone, and that's going up to 500, and in the market, there are already some such packages with all these services and about 200 kuna, with me arguing that in some way, given the HRT programme, our national televisions unfortunately do not have to pay two subscriptions, and HRT and any other operator who offers us a package of services.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55313	Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55314	A colleague of the twilight, a rule to be passed, that one person understands like this, and the other one in the administration can be very harmful. I'm facing a rule these days that's been passed on the installation of condensation audit shafts on a water heater that doesn't apply, so the smoker asks to apply, and the masters don't know how to apply it, the traders don't have that element, and then I lost as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia for 5 hours to try to find it. So this rule that's been passed, the chimney wants to apply it, and the masters won't because it's caused me serious problems. This Regulation, too, probably caused difficulties in its application, and therefore no rules not applicable should be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55315	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55316	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague, Radosh, teaches what my colleague Martinchev was talking about. So, speaking of rationalization, you didn't naturally enter certain cases. So when we talk about rationalization, then maybe we could say that, said the government needs to cut that, that, that, and then let's cut 120 twenty. So, of course figuratively speaking. So that's how it happened in the town of Prelog, we heard it in the city of Vodice. So the post office is closed. I think you know what I'm talking about. So, in the town of Draškovec, where the city was equally cost-effective. So, no communal fees, no electricity was paid, no heating was paid, no waste of garbage had to be paid, no rent, so nothing. However, on September 2nd, this post office is closed and the moment we deal with whether we have a signal or whether it interferes with some radio stations on the Italian side of our radio station, whether it is fast and how the broadband Internet works, then in that same place a man who is 72 or 77 is certainly not asking. He wonders why, for God's sake, Croatian mail must be closed in spite of all these easy circumstances that we can call the same post office. Maybe it's just that someone will be able to present these results and say here I've cut that by 20% and that's my score. And they told me I had to save somewhere. So there's one reasonable explanation I'd like to ask if it's possible to win in cases like this. Of course, I'm not asking you to. But referring to what you were talking about, which is rationalization despite the fact that perhaps there was no rationalization of the place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55317	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55318	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Discussion on the Annual Report on the work of the Croatian Postage and Electronic Communications Agency for 2012, i.e. a report on what HACOM is said to be short of post office. We are witnessing that in all our counties in the Republic of Croatia in the last year, in the last 2012 to which this report relates, the postal office is abolished. In Brodo-Posavina County, in the municipality of Donja Vrba, which is almost the suburban settlement of Slavonski Broda was abolished so-called. The post office how the people like to say it in a simple dictionary has been abolished by mail. In Selci Djakovici, the post office was suspended in a number of other counties and places in the last year, as many as 82. It is the intention of the Croatian government to reduce or how nicely it is said to rationalise Croatia's mail, i.e. its business in terms of its effects in terms of financial business. So, for 1200 employees, 1200 workers from the current 10800. Will it work this little by little or in this 2013 when we get the HACOM report to see that it seems quite drastic we'll just see it. While the postal offices are lifted, I say mostly by villages in the Republic of Croatia until then I have news from my fellow doctors, but also from school teachers that in certain parts of the county, and so on, they have no job opportunities. The doctor has no broadband internet access and cannot prescribe those e-recepts, e-mails, etc. For example, in the municipality of Podkklalje in Slavonski Brod, and in the municipality of Garcin in the villages of Kločevik and so on, the mountain villages of Vrhovina have no broadband internet, so teachers cannot teach children to continue the information. How they'll have the information if there's no signal as they say. I don't think it's a unique example just in Brod-Posavia County, but there are other areas mainly in mountain-mounted areas, perhaps on islands, etc. Again, the islands are plagued by the problem of a signal from Croatian newspapers, the media compared to those of the Italians. You can only catch Italian stations when you climb the road D1 Gračac – Obrovac. You can hardly catch any Croatian station on the radio, let alone on TV. Yeah, not in the back, not on the coast, but in the back, in the face. Try to turn on the radio on the Gračac – Obrovac road and you will hear, just parlare italiano. It is. Now we've turned analog into digital signals. I've already changed three res. And I don't know, I guess I'm buying worse qualities and whatnot. He still has problems with very often with the picture, etc. So sometimes I catch those who use an analogue signal because we are in the Slavonia border area along the Sava River with Bosnia then switch to PTCP to hear what they say there, too, is the radio television of Republika Srpska. But that's what I'm saying in a bilingual letter, isn't it? Or the Federal Television of BiH, so I watch theirs. Well, I don't see any difference in image quality compared to our big digital signal. And then when the gentleman from HACOM goes to Jaruge, a village in the Municipality of Sikirevci and some other villages come in to you, you come home and you have two messages on your phone. You see, yes MOBIS Republika Srpska has entered your network. So it's not just the Italians that have us and others that are breaking into our signals, and here on the cell phone. But not only that if you phone or text in a situation like this then it goes to the account there because you got a signal from another network. Or you've been disabled from contact due to another network breach on your cell phone. All these are problems that are so clear and loudly directly with the names to say places in our Nice One and almost to say both people and persons and institutions starting with schools and health care have and in connection with the communication for which HAKOM is also responsible and whose report we listen to and read today. Are we going to adopt this report as a HDSSB club? Well, I'd rather be abstentioned because it's almost obvious that somehow Croatian mail, you know what I sometimes compare those mails. I just spoke to my colleagues outside and here and not entirely with the fire department or the medical service. When I'm on duty as a surgeon if no one comes to me that night to operate on my appendix or that he broke a leg or someone hit someone and comes because of a trauma, I actually received money for duty, although now he won't give Ostojic but he will, so I received the money for duty without doing anything. Firefighters if there's no fire, then he's actually the same "freedom" under quotes receiving pay, undeserved, non-repentant pay. So is the Croatian Post Office. They may not make income, they don't make money, so they're not worth it, but they're both a symbol of that village and that place. There's almost a village life going on in front of the post office and in the post office. They're traditionally a place and a meeting place. So they're more than a post office, much more important than a post office. I may have made a comparison with surgery or with firefighters too harsh or exaggerated that significance but I don't know if you remember your childhood if you were in the country and saw it, that's how it is. It's really like that. I know that there are new times and that at a time like this communication of modern and others that what she says is ah it's obsolete. But on the other hand, I'm asking when you're already talking about user protection, and it's writing consumer protection on page 15, and it's very current according to Snowden's speeches and discoveries that were all controlled via the Internet and other mobile networks. So no one should ask if there was any indication that Croatia was up too? Like Germany, Spain and others. And from who? We seem to be isolated, like we're not even in Greenland somewhere or I don't know where, maybe Antarctica, like we're not part of Europe and we're not part of modern communications, and we're pretty much. Our paper on it at all, so the media doesn't write about it. Countries relatively large like Spain, Germany and others are being watched. 16 million communications in Spain have been monitored. I ask if HACOM has any knowledge of whether it was in Croatia and towards whom? Interestingly, I think that Croatia has some important and important jobs and that are interesting to those who want to listen or want to stick their noses in someone else's yard. And we see that there are those in the world today. But there's not a word about it today, is there, even though I think it would be interesting and maybe you don't have information like that or they're standing somewhere else, or it's such a policy not to talk about it. The financial effects of HACOM and the rest of it to say that it was preferable to say the rest of the income and transfer for the future, for the second year in HACOM itself, while a colleague here says that Boric does not have it at the height of the salary and in the gross amount that are equal to the president, etc. President of the government, prime minister and minister, and far beyond the parliamentary salaries and so often, sometimes and for a reason, I said that we would not be so decided against fellow members of the other opposition party, but we will be restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55319	A colleague of Miroslav Tudjman's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55320	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, I think that you have actually warned in your own words what is crucial, and when you say that mail is much more than existing offices or that mail may be obsolete but de facto remains what is important and that is the need to communicate. So communication has always connected and trained people. This dimension, this social dimension, is something that is completely missing from this agency's work, is defined as having HACOM's task to monitor the business of electronic communications markets and postal services and going to that technical dimension. Profit and technical criteria become the only means instead of seeing how this institution communicates people in which direction they will develop in which direction these rapid technological changes or rapid obsolescences are going in which direction they will go. I don't expect HACOM to be able to do these studies but this means that it would be more normal to give these social research institutes to investigate to see which direction this communication, mail and electronics are going to develop at all, so that these electronic media can then predict the further development and survival of these offices on the islands, these remote places from which all other functions can be taken over, and not to move within these short-ranged borders, and that our only criterion is profit and profitability. In that sense, I think that this is simply insufficient and it is sad that the institutions that are doing so are also under the level of the problem that we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55321	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55322	Comrade Tudjman's money has estranged and ruined people and we see it every day by the trials and the persecutions that are being led. Unfortunately, money, i.e. profit has entered all the pores of this society. But what Parliamentarians shouldn't, and that's the least they can do to keep quiet about these phenomena. So we need to argue like this, we need to talk, we need to point out. So can we achieve what, my God, we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55323	We're moving on to the individual debate of colleagues Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55324	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Lučiću, President of the Management Council, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know, I've defined myself more for the essence than for statistics because statistics are being read out here from the report several times tonight repeated a lot of things, and actually there's not much being said. It is a difficult market when electronic communications are 12.4 billion kuna and 2.2 billion kuna in the postal market. And I have no intention of convincing the report because you've put it very well, you've given it very well, and in fact it should show a perfectly good state. But according to my knowledge, the market isn't really in its reality. This is exactly the kind of market for electronic communications that would go a little bit quickly because it is already privatised in some way, you have to monitor it and monitor it, you have to be careful to comply with all the legal provisions and that everyone who participates in the competition and for the competition we opted for once long ago to operate according to the principles of this game and to promote the principles of competition and the interests of service users, quality services. Therefore, the principle of non-discrimination and respect for all participants in the competition therefore all participants who appear on the market for these services and also the protection of users of the provision of adequate quality services. Now that's all well said, but the fact is that not enough operators in electronic communications invest in existing systems. They've fixed something, the fact is we still have that broadband internet. Now the story is whether the glass is half-full or half-empty, we're still in trouble, we're still getting a bad signal whether it's about television, whether it's about mobile communications. It's more mobile money now. So much and so much you get in a megabyte or gigabyte package already something to use, and then they don't charge you like they were already told here or charge you, so you can cancel or not, every next one is so much and it costs you otherwise fall to the speed of that ordinary analogue transfer. And what exactly do we have? We have a situation where electronic communications are reduced to income from all operators in our market as much as it has been reduced because they have not tried to increase the service in any other way than what they are, 2.5% have risen from 48 euros to 70 euros, resulting from investment in Internet access through mobile communications networks as equipment that allows users to switch into immovable communications to new technologies. But there are also problems with renting networks and water. There you fought and fought as much as you could and of course using cable sewers together but also remains the problem when units of local self-government use, or when using their communal well-being and their land. That's one problem that's left behind, and it's really a lot of processes that I know about personally. And then today on T-COM, specifically T-COM performs on some of its terms and represents all the conditions and fights quite well for that story even though it has no right to do so you know. The fact is that what we must call a poor quality of service is still high prices relative to Europeans and looking at the level of national traffic, so we have recently talked about how we are going to double down on the price of telecommunications services. But something really didn't happen. But of course I'm not wasting my time I'd look back on the postal services market where here, which is hard 2.2 billion kuna. Of the postal services, therefore, donors made a total revenue of 1 billion and a half kuna and HP has a share of 67%, the other 21 33%. As we have heard, the negligible amount is, that is, a negligible part of the stake in those who have been allowed to deal with universal services precisely because they never wanted to. From 2007 and '08. By 2012, they actually go into another area because it's easier to use someone else's network. Of course, other postal services but they are somewhere at 680 million that HP achieved 28%, other donors 72%, and that says that they all actually objected in some way to these other postal services although unfortunately HP is engaged in some kind of, in fact, not even post office but rather to third services, which will say that he as the main national operator who is actually responsible for a large part of those achieved 344 million services is in a major problem due to inherited dues, of 347 million and for those almost 500 million issued corporate bonds on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. And then we get a big national operator when we add each other up with big duets and problems. And that's actually one huge part of the biggest part of the postal market. HP is like a company of interest to the Republic of Croatia, it's nobody here I think is a problem. Also, the number of post offices is what it is, I hear that this year 1042 is going to have to work on the principles of market business. But they are not allowed to reduce services, and they really need a part of what may be a different approach. You know, I don't know how much advantage EVO TV brings, buying gold, selling insurance, not to say now what is planned, for example. large distribution centres in Velika Gorica or Vesnika printer. It's all nice, but it seems to me pre-named and it also contains some incomprehensible moments, like the transfer within our country from point A to point B for postal shipments without any need. And now we have four delivery systems in Croatia that are... On the other hand, according to the balance sheet itself, the consolidated Croatian Post Office report has therefore reduced revenues, total revenues to 1.6 billion by 2% and of course sales revenues by 4%, and are now around 1.5 billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From the cost, I'll just mention the cost of the pay. They're slightly less than 1.1 billion. So when you take more business costs, then there's no progress. So, then I wonder what's important about these other services and what contributes to the main operator. In any case, liberalisation in this area and... The postal law will also strengthen market conditions and conflicts will already be monitored between the two leading groups. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One lead, here I will mention the City Express with the others and on the other hand the Croatian Post Office, the state structural company in which the state invested a lot but whose business shows therefore a lot of wandering. And here we haven't even touched the new Mail Act and some of the demands that come out of it. For example. The meaning of the compensation fund, he has no way of helping Croatia. Making public operator prices free of payment of VAT for universal services, regulation of the availability of the postal network to other providers, approval of rebates, etc. the problematic discounts for which there is already a application for HP and recently we are on the Committee on Economy when we had the AZTN report here is what we discussed. And of course the phantom replacement postal service, I don't know for me is a service, the service is important that it comes to the user, that it can be provided at an optimal price with the appropriate quality. So, what's the real truth about regularity, the quality of reception and delivery of postal shipments that we don't so rarely get with the wind from the neighbor's garden if we were lucky there wasn't any rain, that there was no rainfall, that we weren't talking about reception deadlines, that HAKOM also had the right to monitor, of course, the obligation. Public life data says that the quality that donors provide is not really good, so not only am I not talking about HP here, but I'm interested in it. And of course HACOM has an obligation to ensure concrete market conditions and to implement legal provisions as well as to preserve the quality of the service by respecting the rights of the national operator and other providers. This is the only way to ensure orderly service and user needs for better quality services. For more than this, I don't have time. I tried to get what I could. Thank you very much. All said is a reflection of care for such an important system, so please understand this debate and it might be good to have a report once on Croatia's mail in this House, so far we haven't had it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55325	Thank you very much. Thank you. Final word on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Drazen Lučić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55326	Thank you, Madam Vice President. And thank you for your comments, your questions, your reviews. Surely in our future work we will consider it all. I'd just be... on some of them that I've recorded there, which I think I can give an immediate direct answer to. If there are any further questions, I am at your disposal and all my colleagues and colleagues. The new HACOM council announced in March that we would reduce market shares by at least 20%, according to the final account. Such a question, so-called. Excess it's regulated the Law on... communications doesn't stay with HACOM but returns to the market. Next year, the fees will be lower for all stakeholders, and the new council is working on an efficient business, spending cuts. This year we cut back on a financial plan recently adopted by the government. Material expenditure for workers for over 3 million kuna and this is what we have directed the support program. Mr. Parliamentary representative Boris from HDZ commented that he has certain funds that are being served. It's the means to the support program. The support program works so that the tender can be opened, when the operator... builds something then those funds are paid off. In order not to lose value due to inflation, these funds are provided, exclusively for use from a business account for the support programme for the development of broadband internet access, and are not used to finance HACOM's work. While we are already talking about the support programme for the development of broadband Internet access, the goal is before 2016, which is drawn up by the support programme, all these funds return to the market means, first and foremost, areas of special public concern, rural areas, islands. We work together with the Croatian Post Office and with all the small settlements in Croatia, which are over 5,000 with less than 750 inhabitants and in those places with homes of health, we connect with schools and are precisely targeted users in these areas. We will continue to work to raise the level of protection of users, especially children. As for sensitivity to the closure of postal offices with the retention of quality and sustainability... postal services is also one of the priorities of HACOM's work in both this and the following years. We'll link these post offices to the support program so that maybe some of the funds at your disposal can be used. And as for the contribution of new universal postal service operators and the comments of some of the Parliament's representatives that he is neglected by inspections, and based on the new Law on postal services, we will check whether he has the possibility of abuse. HACOM will continue to promote new technologies and encourage the investment of all operators in order to increase the density and broadband of the internet directly contribute to the growth of the social product. We will continue to cooperate with all institutions in the Republic of Croatia, but also with international institutions and our neighbours in intensively addressing the problem of interference from Italy. It also criticises us to simplify or recommend that we simplify the dictionary in our reports, we will certainly do so. It was a matter of Mr. Assembly's representative on frequencies in Croatia. There are only three national frequencies assigned to the '84 Geneva Agreement. and confirmed in 2006. This is why you automatically cross when you listen to the same radio station from one frequency to another, because it is an international agreement that does not provide opportunities for more national frequencies in the Republic of Croatia. It was a question of confirmation of the right path which was regulated by the 2008 Law of... Communications and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on... 2011 HACOM has so far issued tens of thousands of true travel certificates. We are just a body that settles disputes, we get a few every day and sometimes dozens of the same demands both citizens and local self-government, but I agree that the situation with the water disaster has not been resolved. This problem is also recognised in collaboration with the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning with the State Geodetic Administration we are working on building a water cadastra because it is one of the foundations to increase investment... infrastructure, and also one of the foundations for obtaining money for projects for which we apply to European funds. As far as customer service is concerned, we will continue to work on protecting users, as much as possible on the prevention and it was a matter of listening. HACOM is not in charge of this area so that it does not fall within the control area of HACOM. If there are any other questions that I can answer immediately, I am at my disposal. Anyway, thank you for your attention and once again for your comments and criticism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55327	Thank you very much. Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55328	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, unfortunately, I didn't hear the answer to the question I actually asked. I must also conclude that, for several months now, neither the mayor of the city of Prelog, the topic I was talking about, has been answered by the same question, so I'm going to ask an additional question. Therefore, the town of Prelogu has been told that the disputed postal office can be opened if the city settles the costs of 150 thousand kuna and then each year allocates 70 thousand kuna for the work of the postal office. So I wonder if then the city is more instructed to hire a young person who in this small place who is left without his post office will go from house to house, collect bills or take pensions. So we're talking about improving the market on the one hand and you're following the postal services market on the one hand, and on the other hand, I don't know how we'd actually update them because if there's nothing you can do, you can't even refresh it. Correct me if you think that's not the case. So please just, do we have any answer to this and why local self-government units should actually in this way allow the post office to function. I suggest they hire a simple person and do it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55329	Replication response, Drazen Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55330	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam MP, you will receive an answer... in writing because I have to ask the Croatian mail first. We as HACOM can't give you an answer right now, everything else is speculation, but if you agree you'll get to your parliamentary address by the end of the week answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55331	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55332	Thank you very much. By listening to reports from the agencies in general here in the Assembly, the idea is that in Croatia, the situation is idyllic, everything works perfectly, consumers are protected, customers are in the first place, and the most endangered species in Croatia are consumers and customers. Something's wrong with that, then. How is it possible that 1.7 when we enter the EU, we get messages from a telecommunications operator's cell phones that since 1.7, ten times cheaper conversations and sending messages. What were the agencies doing until then? Does anyone feel uncomfortable at least that we paid 10 times for years past all reasonable amounts made us some idiots in Croatia. How can someone not be embarrassed about it? That's all I'm asking myself? And everyone promotes investment, everyone protects the buyer. The buyer is simply unprotected. Nobody cares about him. He's on his own. Well, he can't talk to a telephony operator. He's the only one who can communicate with the machine. He can't talk to anyone. He can't reach anyone. The one who's been pushing him to change his tariff is pushing him, he's already been removed tomorrow, but tomorrow some other student is speaking from that same job. Where does such aggression affect consumers to resort to a change in the tariff of the one which the same operator had previously urged them to report and use exactly that tariff. And then how in 15 or 20 or 2 months after that, that tariff doesn't suit him, but it's more convenient for someone else. No one has ever reacted to such things. We had the most expensive telecommunications prices in the world. And today in roming, we have that. Where is the customer protected? How is he protected? To pay the bill and keep quiet, just like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55333	Thank you. Will you answer? The answer to the replica Drazen Lučić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55334	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Parliamentary MP, HAKOM as a national regulatory body does not regulate retail prices or has ever regulated them, and the prices in the Roma are the same for the citizens of Croatia as for the citizens of any EU country since 1.7 this year. The only thing that might create confusion is if it's a citizen of the Republic of Croatia who... The EU is then a completely different Roma price set by the operator, and within the EU, the unique prices of Roma are also valid for all EU citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55335	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55336	Annual report on the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency for 2012. The debate on the report is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual report on the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency for 2012 is accepted". Please make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted by the majority of 111 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 5 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55337	We will discuss - Annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of staff policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2012, with the Report on the State of Defence Preparations in the Republic of Croatia for 2012 The Report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The Defence Act was conducted by the Defence Committee. You received the report in the boxes. The opening proposal will explain the deputy defence minister, Mrs Višnja Tafra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55338	I would like to thank Madam Vice-President, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The annual report on the readiness of the defence system to the Croatian Parliament and also to the Croatian public aims to show how the defence system works, which it develops, how it fulfils the defence, but also the social role and how it has the means to which it is entrusted. The report shows on 129 pages the state and readiness of the defence system in 2012, as well as the key developments in the upcoming period. We also wanted to point out the real difficulties facing the defence system. That's why I'm only going to look back on some of the key features of 2012. In 2012, I would freely call the year of consolidation, rationalisation, structure and management processes. Although activities took place in the context of a reduced defence budget, the defence system was adapted to saving and rationalising from equipment to material costs in such a way that the basic missions of the Armed Forces in the defence of the country, in order to help build peace and security, and to help civil institutions were not threatened. In 2012, heavy activities focused on achieving and maintaining the necessary level of preparedness and on achieving adequate interoperability with allies. The NATO Armed Forces integration process was successfully completed in October 2012. The main efforts were aimed at peacekeeping operations and the two NATO-led ISAF operations in Afghanistan and CAFOR in Kosovo, the EU-led operation of Somalia – Atalanta and 7 UN-led peacekeeping operations. They included 1396 members. Training and training in 2012 took place with increased intensity and training of forces for international peace operations, not only in the area of the Republic of Croatia, but in the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Poland, Norway, the Czech Republic, the Republic of France and Austria. There was also training of our forces for quick response forces, so-called NATO response force. The fighting group's strengths are also for the EU within the so-called EU butle group. The handbook's basic military training was conducted through a 2-route military deadline on which more than 11,000 candidates were registered, of which 15% of the candidates included 674 members. Ten military exercises were held in the Republic of Croatia and our members participated in 25 international military exercises. At the support of civil institutions, the Armed Forces were engaged in certain tasks during 2012, and these fire-fighting aircraft were engaged in 457 fires, 459 patients and 915 their escorts were transported, 20 rescue missions were carried on land, sea and islands. Water was delivered to the inhabitants of the islands affected by the drought. Also, in 2012, a new normative arrangement of the defence system was launched, resulting in this High House in the middle of 2013 by the adoption of new Law on Defence and the Law on Service in the Armed Forces. Also, in 2012 a strategic defence review was carried out as one of the strategic defence documents adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2013. The continuation of this process will be a public debate in 2013 on the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces, which we believe will be seen in front of this House in early 2014. The multi-annual commitment to include economic capacity in the development and capabilities of the Armed Forces has also resulted in the successful realization of several equipment and modernisation projects such as the continuation of the production of a combat armored vehicle. By the end of 2012, 116 base vehicles in 8 versions were delivered, 37 of which were fully equipped with key sub-systems of arms and communication. By the end of 2013 it will be operational for Armed Forces up to 60 vehicles. And so far, this project is just to remind you of a billion and 800 million kuna spent. During 2014, we plan another 400 million, which would ultimately be just over 2.5 billion kuna or 20 million kuna per vehicle. The integration of armed systems and connection systems has also continued, continued to be introduced into our domestic VHS assault rifle system, covert uniforms, personal, diving, flight, parachute and protective equipment have been purchased, decisions have also been made on the modernisation of the FPS 117 radar system which I can also say these days that the modernisation process has been completed. Solutions have also been offered to bring to the operational capacity the Peregrin radar and how to correctly maintain the Gem radar. The most pronounced need remained to rebuild the vehicle’s fleet and the non-colored. This year and this problem began to be resolved through donations from our partners, part of the United States, and also by buying from our strategic partner of the Republic of Germany. In 2012, it was also a year of decision making. A decision on the extension of the life span of the MiG 21 and the decision on the acquisition of coastal, five coastal patrol ships for the needs of the Coast Guard and the preparation of documentation for these projects, which was a major challenge for the experts of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces. Also, in 2012, we decided on a newspaper in the reform of the Ministry of Defence, which is the establishment of an independent public procurement sector with the aim of more effective control of public procurement procedures that have been subject to criticism for years and I can say openly with certain doubts. With the introduction of this sector, we have also introduced a practice that seems to be good for us with the Parliamentary Defence Committee that we are familiar with the most important projects of great value that we need to acquire in the current year. Also, we have introduced a practice that before the beginning of the calendar year we are familiar with our procurement plan in order to be as transparent as possible, and tomorrow one such meeting of the Assembly Committee will be held in the premises of the Croatian Military University where we intend to present to the Defence Committee the 2014 procurement plan that has already been made, and we can therefore proudly say that we have caught one step in the execution of the procurement that is linked to the current calendar year. It also continued to plan for the decommissioning of personnel from the defence system. In 2012, the service stopped for 642 persons, of which 466 active military personnel and 203 civil servants and tenants. The new defence ministry regulation shut down 600 unfulfilled jobs, reduced employee expenditure, as you know, was revised as well as reduced in certain parts of the employee's salary allowances. On 31 January 2013, there were 17,661 members of the Armed Forces, of which 2,257 members. 359 military personnel are serving at the Ministry of Defence and 1103 state officials and tenants. Of which 789 are women. Of the total number of active military personnel, it should be noted that 9.4% are women. The officer has 3,555, of which 14.2% are officers, 6 083 officers or 11.1% of officers and 5,757 soldiers and only 5% of soldiers. 90% of the officers and 98.4% of the officers have adequate training. The average age of the military personnel is about 38 years of life while the average age of all employees of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces is 39 years. 818 persons were promoted, 416 officers, 401 officers. Total investment for the rehabilitation, construction, modernisation and equipment of infrastructure facilities was around 21 million kuna at the locations of the military polygon "Eugen Kvaternik", the locations of Podkop, Trbounje and "Debela Glava", Slunj. Since the sale of apartments, we have received more than 8 million kuna, which with revenues in 2013 would be slightly more than 26 million kuna to be used for purchase and accommodation, i.e. to purchase and build accommodation facilities for members of the armed forces. In the food of NATO's smart defence initiative, the Morh and the armed forces have been involved in seven projects. As part of the initiative of the European Union, the Republic of Croatia has also played a leading role in pilot training projects together with the Czech Republic and we conduct training courses for special operations together with the Republic of Austria. As for the 2012 financial plan, it amounted to 4 billion and 800 million kuna, 57% of which in the structure account for staff expenditure. Material expenditures were about 41.1% of which were still at a high 35.5% on the BOV project. The report also mentions the average annual percentages of the regularity of some of our funds that you have had the opportunity to read. So just to mention that combat vehicles, pedestrians on average were about 68%, MiGs 30.6%, helicopters 64%, coast guard ships 73%, Croatian Navy fleets 74% and tanks 30%. What has been bothering us for years, and what we have failed to achieve in 2012 and I do not believe that we will be able to achieve it soon and these are the objectives of the ability, their term is and their package has been formally accepted at the NATO ministerial meeting in June this year, however, it is up to us to continue to work intensively to achieve these skills goals as quickly as possible. The key development objectives in the next period have led us to the end of this report. All I can say is that in 2013, we filled most of them. And if that were the case, I hope that tomorrow the members of the Assembly Defence Committee will have a chance to see it. And finally, I would like to stress that in 2012, a level of readiness of the Armed Forces was maintained in 2012, which allowed all constitutional and legal tasks and missions of the Armed Forces to be completed. The only thing I regret is that this 2012 report is being discussed during this period of the year. I believe that the reasons for this were justified and that the 2013 report will still have the opportunity to discuss it in the first quarter of 2014 when I believe it will be more relevant for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55339	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ colleague Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55340	Thank you, well-respected Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, dear Madam Deputy Minister. I would like to start by saying that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the 2012 Defence System preparedness Report, the implementation of human resources policy and the overall state in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. But I must at first express my dissatisfaction, as the Deputy Minister said, as we discuss this report practically at the end of this calendar year and we could discuss the 2013 report already. In particular, respecting the fact that this report is not a report like most of them in the Assembly we have progresses but is one of the key and key for the state of defence and national security of the Republic of Croatia and there is really no reasonable reason for it to stand in the parliamentary procedure for half a year. And that's exactly how much this report is in the process. And we should have, and we had to discuss it a lot sooner. As I also think it is wrong to discuss such important and important topics for the Republic of Croatia before the end of our working hours. As far as the report itself is concerned, I agree that it is correct, complete and gives good insight into the state of defense system's readiness. And on this side we support the Report but at the very least we express our concern for the overall state of defence system. It may not be alarming but it is alarming and obvious that the crisis and recession and lack of funds and the constant crackdown of the defence budget have left its consequences. The 2013 budget is less than the 2012 budget. As the 2012 budget was lower than the 2011 budget. The 2014 budget projection is less than the 2013 budget and, of course, it could not have gone without consequences. And the real consequences will unfortunately appear in the nearer and further future, questioning the overall functioning of the defence system. What really is the best way to illustrate the following indicators. Some of them are listed by the deputy minister, I'll repeat them, add some new ones. One of the key data on the state is the fact that the downsizing of the defence budget in 2012 compared to 2011 from 1.53 to 1.41 GDP in itself speaks about the state and situation and instead of increasing the percentage year by year towards the declared and desirable 2% as NATO standard, it is growing year by year. In the defence ministry's budget, as we have heard, 57% of the funds refers to employees' salaries, which is unfavourable and does not leave enough room for the development and modernisation of the Armed Forces and the defence system. The purchase of a combat armored vehicle accounts for 35% in total material costs, which is also unfavourable. Costs for clothing, footwear, equipment are lower by 37% compared to 2011. The 2012 courses were reduced by almost three times. The health review plan has been achieved by 63%, which is an increase compared to 2011, but still far from what would be desirable and acceptable. The maintenance of the technique was spent 16% less than in 2011. Out of 710 trucks, 670 trucks are from manufacturers that no longer exist. Thirty-six percent of the non-combat vehicles in the phase of the write-off. We also heard data on the correctness of M-84 tanks in 2012, 30%, BVP M-80 68%, MIG 30 percent. What is also signifiable, there is still no single information system of the Ministry of Defence. Therefore, all these indicators presented are indeed worrying and any further reduction in defence resources can have inconceivable consequences in the future and raise questions as I have already said about the sustainability of the defence system in this form in the future. Therefore, for the Republic of Croatia as a NATO member, the so-called NATO concept is highly acceptable. Smart defenses and concept of association and sharing, so-called pulling and sharing with partner countries in building a common capacity in response that countries alone are unable to provide sufficient resources because the trend of the constant reduction of defence budget funds is not only present in the Republic of Croatia but also in most NATO alliance countries, as well as those of the largest. The chronic lack of defence funds could partly and must be compensated by placing in office a number of valuable properties owned by the MORH which have been untapped for years. I agree with Madam Deputy Minister and what she said about the procurement procedure, and I think it's a really good practice to present to the Parliamentary Defence Committee and the public procurement plan for next year, and that's what's going to happen next year. As well as the fact that, without the opinion of the Assembly Committee, there is no public procurement procedure of more than 5 million euros, as well as the fact that the Parliamentary Defence Committee in the new Defence Act has received one, I would say more appropriate place in the overall defence and security system. Finally, as I said, the HDZ Club will support this report even though we cannot generally be satisfied with the state and readiness of the defence system and we hold that, regardless of the crisis and financial problems, further efforts must be made and additional funding sources must be found to ensure that the defence system is prepared at a satisfactory level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55341	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Dunja Špoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55342	Thank you, Vice President. Reputed Deputy Minister, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. As the deputy told us earlier, it was in 2012 that this report was before us a year of consolidation and rationalization in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the defence sector entered it without reforms in progress that were absolutely necessary. Without the strategic documents, of course, that was inconclusive. That is why the proposals of the Law on Defence and the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have been prepared because the changes made by membership in NATO and the European Union also bring new strategic circumstances which are a chance, but also a challenge for them to be adapted. Back in the past several years, as we all know very well, global and national financial conditions have been continuously unfavorable. This led to a certain gap or even better said lagging behind a few steps towards the development objectives described in the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces from 2006 to 2015. The largest deficit was created in the field of material care, logistics support and in the maintenance of facilities and infrastructure. The level and categories of preparedness of the system for all troops and commanders of the Armed Forces have been established as a basic prerequisite for determining their availability for the performance of the task. The effort to equip communication and information equipment was to equip forces for international peace operations and missions. The equipment was mostly carried out through military aid programmes of the United States government and, in part, through the defence budget. To equip 1396 soldiers and soldiers in NATO's 2 operations, one EU operation and 7 UN-led operations, MORH spent 317 million kuna. The largest equipment program of the Armed Forces production and introduction into the operational use of Patria armored vehicles is in the final phase. As we heard, it was manufactured by the end of 2012. 116... 37 complete. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So by the end of 2013, 60 vehicles will be ready, and in total it cost 1 billion and 800 million kuna. When we talk about non-combat vehicles in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, then we should say, or repeat what Ivić said before me that he was in the Armed Forces 790 trucks, and of those 790 trucks, 670 trucks are a manufacturer who, due to age, no longer exist. However, this problem is also being solved by obtaining it through allies, or through Germany. In 2012, the issue of fighter aircraft, the purchase of flight and parachute equipment was also resolved, and the purchase of aircraft was being prepared. In August 2012, the Committee for the Proposal to elect multi-purpose combat aircraft for Armed Forces and the Military-Technical Alliance of the Ministry of Defence in November 2012 reached a conclusion that the combat air force should remain an integral part of the Croatian Air Force. By keeping MiG-21, the Republic of Croatia will retain its capacity to control its own airspace. A total of 153 million and 200 thousand kuna were spent to maintain the technique in 2012. The largest part of the maintenance of aircraft technology is 89 and a half million, i.e. 58.4 of all costs. However, this is why a high percentage of the regularity and availability of aircraft to extinguish fires has been particularly ensured in one of the most intense fire-fighting seasons so far. In simple language, even though the deputy minister said so before me, I will repeat these figures because they are truly striking. The preparedness, i.e. the average fighting regularity in the Croatian tank defence system 30%, points 31.6%, helicopters slightly over 64 and 49%, Coast Guard ships 63 and Croatian Navy fleet 74%, respectively. These last ones showed a cost-effective increase of 6% of financial investments compared to 2011. In the United States, which allocated $345000 in support of equipment and modernisation of about $8 million for humanitarian projects related to exercises, for the destruction of surplus ammunition and weapons 1 million, for various forms of education, and for various forms of training about $600 000, for the return of Croatian participation in the ISAP peace operation in 2010. The most important partners in bilateral military cooperation in 2012 were Germany, Poland, Slovenia, Austria and Italy. Regardless of the increasing potential for the preparedness of the Croatian defence system, people are bringing in. On 31 December 2012, the total number of Armed Forces were 17661 members. Of which 2257 members. In addition, 359 active military personnel and 1103 civil servants and tenants were assigned to the Ministry of Defence and 789 women. Now, of all the military personnel in the Armed Forces, 3555 are officers of which is 14.2% of the officers. 6083 are officers and 11.1% are officers and 5757 are soldiers and only 5% are soldiers. But 34 and almost 35%, respectively, are women of civil servants and subsistence in the Armed Forces within the system. In 2012, 818 active military personnel were promoted, of which 416 officers and 401 officers were therefore not surprised that 57% of the 2012 financial plan established by the state budget went to expenditures precisely for employees. 41.1% are material expenditures while 1.9% fell to the rest. In order to enhance this budgetary item, it is continuously working on the handover of unspective military properties to the State Property Management Agency as well as already allocated to non-spective military properties to local and regional and regional self-government units. That would cut the cost of the Department of Defense. In 2012, 28 such military properties were handed over to the Agency for the Management of State Property and Units, thereby reducing the annual cost of paying municipal and other fees by 2 million kuna. Finally, we commend this report as systematic, comprehensive and transparent. It was precisely because of such commitment to transparency that the Ministry of Defence introduced the first presentation of the Defence Ministry procurement plan to members of the Assembly Defence Committee in 2012. In 2012, the MORH was a year of major decisions, especially about the purchase of equipment, or modernisation. With the hope that transparency and modernisation remain a trend in the MORH SDP club accepts this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55343	Replica, Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55344	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mrs. Spoljar, I actually answered not for the replica, but you actually said the key thing in submitting your report. So, all you've listed, so both you and Mrs. Deputy and colleague Ivić, all of this is true, but the key value of every system and defense system is people. And that 17 thousand and something more than we have, so if I've got a good understanding of the military's most important, or most visible to the public, it's just those who participate in peace missions. The best part goes to them, or I think the decision is subordinated in some way to people who are trained to participate in missions. And even members who have conditions, abilities and all that they need for everything in the peace missions want, so that's their most desirable part of the story called belonging, the activities in the Armed Forces in the defense forms of this country. What am I saying? It seems to me that because of the system that we still have when they serve their mandate on peacekeeping missions they return to that system I think that system is suffering because this second part of the training that applies to people who don't participate in peacekeeping missions I don't think it exists. I don't know what they're trained on, how they train and what they're trained on. And what about them in a year or two or three? What kind of system will we look at with people who simply don't have, I don't blame anyone, of course, is such an economic situation, but maybe, I don't know, maybe we could all think a little together about some other form of training that I say won't have that many priorities in such a difficult economic sense. Because at this point, we don't even know who's keeping the sky out of the air or out of the ground or what it's going to look like. So we might simply try to pay more attention to these people who are not involved in peace operations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55345	Thank you. Replication response, Dunja Spoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55346	Therefore, given the conditions that I consistently stated in my debate, I believe that today's system of military personnel training in Croatia is in line with these conditions. And in this reply in this replica, I would again take the opportunity to mention to my colleagues the message to my MPs and colleagues, i.e. to pass on the information that, with 14 generals we have in the Croatian Army since this year, we have also 1 even though I forgot to say so after the pay phone, so I will use this reply in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55347	On behalf of the HNS representative's club, counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55348	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Deputy Minister, The HNS Club will fully support this report. Because this report is quite detailing everything that has not been simply done in the given conditions to implement reforms in the defence system that are natural in themselves by the fact that we have become a NATO member state and EU member states and that the complete concept of the defence of the Republic of Croatia is changing from some other time. And also reforms that are clear in themselves as a general part of the general trend in the change of all the Armed Forces not only of the Republic of Croatia but also of other world countries. A reduction in the number of members and a more prominent role of combat technique, as one of the colleagues said in the partnership planning and implementation of certain defence tasks to reduce costs. In this report, it was apostrophe of course that the defence sector also suffers from an acute lack of funds, a picture of the condition of the Croatian Air Force in tables with a percentage of the correct apparatus, as well as the condition of the Croatian Navy with a percentage of the correct battleships, patrol ships and other vessels in the Croatian Navy fleet. It's the same as the state of the land army. In 2012, it was a year of consolidation, and it should not be disturbed with the mind that this was done in the previous recent legal frameworks and that there were certain changes in this year as regards the legal framework within which the defence system operates. The report shows that our troops played a significant role in international missions, which is very certain that counterpart Boris Blazekovic will speak more in his individual debate. What is more important to me personally as a parliamentary representative was the same if not a greater share of the rescue missions to help the civilian population and, of course, a key role in preventing fires, or in fire protection. And this year as last year, I am taking the opportunity to thank these people on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club because I had the opportunity to be personally on some fires as the mayor with which the ultimate effort, which is the intensity of these people's efforts, is doing their job. What is also recorded in this report is that decisions have been made on the remounting of MiG 21st, on the acquisition of coastal patrol ships and on the launch of the installation of two UBS warehouses because most of the warehouses according to today are valid standards used for UBS in Croatia both those perspectives and those that await their destruction, below the default standard and decided to start building the first two warehouses. What leaves me personally in the dilemma and I welcome the decision to keep the combat component as far as possible in our frameworks. And once we get out of it when it comes to the battle component of the flight back, ladies and gentlemen are gone. However, it is equally expensive sport and we are here in one stalemate position. Pat's position when it comes to common sense because we've forced ourselves to accept a decision to go to the further remont of MIG 21 the youngest of these machines is I think somewhere at 35 years' level maybe the Deputy Minister will correct me but I think I know the details of that part of the problem. And it's very questionable at all what we're fixing and what is the functionality of those planes at all. It was also written that it was spent less than in 2011, however, I have to look briefly at the exposure of counterpart Ivic, who expressed concern and I voice concern over the relatively low percentage of the correctness of the combat technique. But I must also note that this is not the result of a lack of funds from 2012 but is the result of an inadmissible, catastrophic approach to maintaining combat techniques, obtaining and restoring combat techniques in all post-strategic years. So I'm going to say something and maybe someone's going to deny me if we take out the assault rifles and light weapons to actually '95. And '06. the years when we had our last weapons contingents in combat troops to this program Patria until this beginning which was only the beginning of the renewal of the Croatian Navy fleet we did not actually have significant purchases of military equipment and weapons. And we got into a situation where the current resolution minister found the Armed Forces in the next state of 75 M-84 tanks was correct 18. So he had an even lower percentage of the tank's regularity when he took over the resistor. And I believe now that percentage of this moment is certainly above 45%. I'm convinced. Maybe I even gave a modest assessment. Some questions are also asked, and some questions are asked about the purchase of the fighting system, the Patria armored vehicles, where, as the report says, the military expert advice brought us to get 126 Patria by missing which battle stations and that, in fact, with a clear definition of that programme, it gave him its purpose. Battle armored vehicles have their advantage because the ability to equip is multi-functional. The concept of a combat unit equipped with such systems is also strictly guided by the shares of combat systems according to their purpose. What we got for 2 billion kunas, 2 or 3 billion correct me, please, 2 billion kuna, it's 126 armored buses that this equipped don't let God come out on a battle line opposite a well-conceived armored brigade or division. We'd be confused. Messed up. And then, in the framework of this program, it's very likely that according to the cracks of that same military, technical expert advice, two Helsinki-class rocket corvettes have been purchased and we classify as rocket cannons which are actually the basic purpose of using a missile strike, RBS 15 rocket systems. For an uninformed reader, it is no wonder that we have the RBS15 missile combat system but very strange if it is known that this system has not been operational for several years because of non-maintainment. This is the real truth about the state of combat technique in the Croatian Army and it has been going on for years. And it lasted until we were an integral part of NATO's alliance, and while we were defacto and dejourn about the defense were solely based on our own both human beings who are for every praise and technical resources that are for every insult. 710 trucks, 670 that no longer know the manufacturer, 15 years of time to follow that trend, plan to watch three moves ahead in some more financially happy times than those that have lived for the last three, four years. So, the failure didn't happen either in 2010 or 2009, the failure has occurred continuously for the last 10 years. Of course, under these financial circumstances, it's not easy to order new 600 military trucks in two or three years. They cost more than those who drive... to the beach, of course. Someone mentioned an anti-aircraft defense. In addition to anti-aircraft defence troops, anti-aircraft defence territories in the Republic of Croatia do not exist, it is not available. Let's not lie, gentlemen, Parliament is too serious a place to lie. There's no anti-aircraft defense territory. Lucky and God, we've entered the NATO alliance. And what I'm talking about is not the truth of this report because in 2012, such failures could not be corrected by anyone, but we ladies and gentlemen can correct some gaps, so I'm interested in who these people have been doing military-professional advice and making these decisions for the last 10 years. Who are these experts who have spent billions of kunas on systems that are not operational because of their intricacies and inconsistencies, serve nothing and are responsible for it. The combat preparedness of Croatian troops in '95 compared to today was one five times bigger, five times larger. Today, we are trained to work together with partners as a component part of the mission in peace missions, and it is a great happiness, once again, that we have become part of NATO's alliance because today, in this state, realistically, apart from the staff and quality people, we would not have the technical resources to carry out the fundamental task of refusing to threaten the territorial integrity and security of the Republic of Croatia. In this report, it is evident that someone has approached reforms, has drawn out certain things to be done in accordance with both realistic and necessary. This report is very detailed, I would say even honestly written. It reflects current possibilities, efforts. We will also support this report in HNS, but I took this opportunity to open the issue of moral and professional responsibility of people who have treated Croatian Armed Forces in this way for the last 15 years and in this way treated the spending of Croatian taxpayers' money in a situation where we have to take off salaries, when we have to have social tensions in society and towards teachers and farmers and all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The way money was spent in the Armed Forces system is in any case worrying about every person. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55349	Replica, Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55350	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I, in my debate on behalf of the club, was indeed extremely and well-intentioned and I didn't want to politicise this subject, and I especially didn't want to set myself up with the position of the opposition party because I believe that these topics, such as this report, should be discussed first and foremost in a way that we should consider the right situation without political divisions, prejudice and all that is followed by the debates in this House and that certain conclusions should be drawn from these discussions which will, of course, help the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and especially the Ministry of Defence in the implementation of further policy when it comes to the defence system. But let me have the full right to establish at least some of the things that stand in this report and express concern, and that's the least I can do at this point, express concern. And I didn't say for a moment that the problems that exist, and it's evident that they exist, were created in 2012. These are the problems that have been present in the defence system for years, and I didn't want to transfer it to the existing Kukurik coalition, though. After this debate, I wanted us to look at all the problems as closely as possible so that we don't go over them, which is a common phenomenon and intention to write ourselves some praises about years of reform, making difficult decisions that just doesn't stand. Let's face it, and let's face it, and let's focus on the problems, and that will create a prerequisite for us to solve them in the future at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55351	Thank you. Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55352	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Ivić, I think that my complete exposure was actually focused on the real state and on the problems that are in the combat system. So let's not, for God's sakes, stick our heads in the sand and run from the truth. So, it was not at all my intention to challenge you the right to express your concern because you have shown concern, in fact, about the same thing that I have expressed concern about, except that it is good for political hygiene in Croatian politics to stop lying and to apostrophe when some things were wrong, to learn from mistakes, not to run from them. We don't need to hide from the truth. I'd like you to deny me in any detail when it comes to the state of combat technique I said from the pay phone. You won't deny me because everything I said is true. It's accurate data. I'm fine. I'm very well-advised. No wonder, and it's no accident that I'm on the council defense committee. And I will not, as a Croatian parliamentary representative, hide the truth from the Croatian public or allow the practice of hiding truth or ignoring, turning my head. In the future, such an approach still paves the way. It doesn't take us 10 years to get a new 126 Patria that doesn't serve anything. That's too expensive. Calculate how many teacher salaries it is, calculate how many medical salaries it is, calculate how many pensions it is, calculate how many kilometers of highways it is to Dubrovnik, and then we will know that it is our duty regardless of the parties and the political options to look the truth into our eyes and to talk about that truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55353	Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55354	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Baranovic, I agree with your assessment of the state of combat technique. Anyway, I'll say something even more radical than what you said. When people with the experience of the Homeland War leave the Croatian army, they will not be able to use this technique they now have, and the efficiency of the Croatian Army will be even worse. But what you've just said is that for political hygiene, you've been saying that it's all happened for the last 10 years. You only said in the last sentence for the last 15 years. Therefore, it would be correct for political hygiene and for the sake of truth to be said in the last 15 years... and not to indirectly address some responsibilities on one side only. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it should be fully considered. That's one thing. On the other hand, we can't believe that this entire system is going to work with 0.1% of the knowledge separation, for science. And even those 0.1% weren't used in a hundred percent amount but 80 percent of the projected funds to make it... Therefore, it is simply a question of investment in knowledge, the knowledge that should then be in the function of developing the entire system so that it is functional and simply not there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we get here, if we keep this up, we'll have good reports, and in the end, when this moral and combat element in terms of this war experience just melts down, it won't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55355	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55356	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The esteemed colleague Tudjman, and mental hygiene hasn't actually worked for 18 years since the beginning of the war, and to this day we have opened this process of neglect and very casually, so sometimes I can say perhaps not by chance unprofessionally leading the Armed Forces. You mentioned the question of investment in knowledge and science. I can agree with you there, so I'll just pull the parallel. Imagine how much we could have invested that we didn't buy those two famous corvettes that are for driving and demonstration that we had a Navy class of Helsinki. They don't have any function. These aren't patrol ships, they're meant for something completely different and we bought them to realize that why they're meant for us actually no longer de facto we don't have, deura that somewhere in some warehouse probably stand forgotten rockets... Fifteen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You said that people are worth it, I can agree with you, and also these people if you send them tomorrow into any task not equipped enough and these younger generations don't underestimate those seniors who are veterans can't carry out their tasks effectively. It is good that at least the level of equipment we send out to international missions is satisfactory. But the fact and the measure of my debate is that we allowed billions of kunas of budget funds to be spent and in an operational sense we didn't get equivalent. Not that we didn't get the equivalent. Fate would say that in 75% of the cases we didn't get anything, absolutely nothing, and that's inadmissible, it's billions. We will judge someone properly tomorrow for a million kunas or 100,000 kunas, and someone is allowing themselves to spend billions of kunas of Croatian taxpayers for a pile of iron. It's true and deny me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55357	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55358	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Baranovic, you've made it very clear that the situation in the Armed Forces is quite difficult, but it's not as dramatic as you said. Yet the Armed Forces have potential, they have people, they have power, they have weapons. And it's not true that they've started renovating and fighting vehicles and techniques as well as weapons just now. The assault rifle started in 2010 with the production and introduction of the Armed Forces. As well as the Croatian gun, as well as the trucks no matter what kind. When the needs were then obtained and obtained. Some say as witnesses in court that they're the best trucks or the best assets in the Armed Forces, maybe funny but true. The same thing didn't go down, it was that the reduction in budgets from year to year was less and that was the cause, and more and more has been spent on maintaining those fire and helicopters and aircraft that were in function of civil protection, i.e. preventing fire. There's a missing segment of renewal, remonting, purchasing parts and all that's needed. They're famous for their trucks and brands. It's mostly TAM 110 and 150, Torpeda, we all know who we were, and we know what it's like. And there are still parts for them. Maybe they're not so functional and the possibility of their equipment would maybe fitting or remonting would cost more than buying new ones. That's probably the problem. But I believe that the Armed Forces can carry out their tasks in a thorough manner today, refuse any impact or threat that would be on the Republic of Croatia. And yet to correct you clearly says in the report 30% of the tanks are correct and functional, and it's not over 40% and it's never been below that number. Somewhere between 20% and 30% has always been ready, correct, functional and usable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55359	Thank you. Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55360	My colleague Djakić, I think that at some point you and some colleagues and I have done the same job and when you say that we can be satisfied with the introduction that I am glad that a Croatian assault rifle and gun was introduced because, as I have practice, I like to buy Krasevo chocolate and not Milka so much that I love that the Croatian soldier is equipped with Croatian military equipment and helmet and assault rifle and self-cross. My colleague Djakic, but you and I both know what it means to God not send these men to the battlefields equipped at that level tomorrow. You know very well what it means to form a fully equipped unit. You know very well what's going on and you know what price we paid when we're like that in '91. We went equipped with trophy weapons, light weapons without the support of artillery, without the support of armored troops and without missile troops, and about the air force not to speak. And we can't deal with someone spending budgets without getting an adequate situation in return. We can't figure out the fact that someone RBE is a system that was acquired in the '90s. the year, which is still active today according to its technical performances does not belong to the last generation but still very large numbers of Navys use it, that it has failed in our warehouses, that someone has failed to conduct regular maintenance and has allowed resources to expire and that at the same time we have spent on the maintenance of rocket cannons, which are a fundamental fighting tool and that we are even more crazy in 2009 or 2010 when the Corvettes of the Helsinki class still bought two such ships, and we knew that this no longer makes any sense. It's hundreds of millions of kunas and billions. In the context of today's situation, we need to discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55361	We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55362	Thank you very much. This present report is presented to us by a set of important data on the state and readiness of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. I will, as counterpart Baranovic has already announced, say more about our participation and the importance of our participation in NATO. Croatian Armed Forces are a particularly important segment of the Croatian state and society. Croatian Armed Forces are the real foundation of Croatian statehood and Croatian independence, security and freedom of Croatian citizens and citizens. The entire Croatian public is rightly sensitive to everything that happens in the Croatian Armed Forces. We are pleased to say that the decade-long process of integration of the Armed Forces into NATO ended successfully in October of last year. On 1 April 2009, the Republic of Croatia became a full member of the NATO alliance. All MPs voted for that decision except one. All MPs besides this one regardless of the political party or option were then aware of the historic moment of entering the most significant military-political alliance in the world, were at that moment aware of the responsibility for the true, real safety of Croatia, or its citizens and citizens. Croatia is the only one of all NATO member states and all EU members that has passed through its immediate history a bloody imposed long-standing defence war. By doing so, we are all or at least a large majority particularly sensitive to the country's security and military issues at all. Along with these unfortunate war events, Croatia unfortunately has real experiences of war from recent past on its territory, and the Croatian army has created and established its foundations during the Homeland War. To the citizens of Croatia, security means something completely different than to the citizens of any member of the NATO alliance and the EU. The clearly expressed desire to join the EU and NATO Croatia has, during communication with other members and participation in international security missions since 2002, managed to obtain the recognition of all NATO members by its efforts and by making significant political-institutional progress and certainly because of its invaluable and unique military experience, and in 2009, it became a full member of NATO's 28th member. The decision by all members of the then Croatian Parliament allowed Croatia to participate in all discussions on all aspects of world security policy sitting at the same table with all other NATO members with the most developed countries in the world. Thus, as small as Croatia may seem, it became a factor in world security as well as protecting itself. The NATO Alliance is a political defence-military alliance of 28 countries that contain in its strict rules a provision on the protection of common civilization and cultural values, the protection of human freedoms and rights. Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty carries a provision saying that an attack on one NATO member also means an attack on all other members. Croatia has provided stability and peace to its citizens by entering NATO's full membership and then the EU for a long time, and stability and peace are the son of qua non of any progress. By joining NATO, and especially by joining the EU, Croatia has finally received such an important prerequisite and an opportunity for smooth long-term development through the security and stability framework. But by entering these associations, it is certainly not the end but only one of the beginnings of a more rapid and stable development of our country and society. Croatia also assumes completely other responsibilities and tasks in a security sense not only for itself but also for other primarily own regions and beyond. I personally but not only myself but my colleagues, and most of our citizens, feel that no one should be indifferent to other people's suffering, so no matter what part of the world there is a person or people who suffer. It's important how people live today in Burkina Fasa, Myanmar, Mali, Syria or Afghanistan. It is certainly necessary to highlight the direct benefits arising from the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in peacekeeping operations led by the United Nations of the European Union or NATO, as regards the establishment of peace, security and high standards of democratisation of human rights and civil freedoms. For Croatian Armed Forces, the exchange of experiences and technological and operational innovations among NATO members is also useful in continuous communication with other armies and soldiers. There, according to the highest standards, is a technological and command experience of the Croatian Army. Participation in peace operations is the most concrete contribution to strengthening stability and security in the world but also to strengthening the security of its own country. As head of the Croatian Parliament delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I am in permanent contact with fellow NATO parliamentarians as well as with various NATO operatives from military to political personnel. All, especially soldiers, point out the unusually high quality and professionality of our soldiers in all peace operations with an emphasis on ISAF peacekeeping missions in Afghanistan, a peace operation... Kosovo, and the UN peacekeeping mission at the Golan High School, which ended this year for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such a maximum professional approach to carrying out tasks within NATO and its nations makes the Croatian state a serious and responsible member of the international community and this certainly helps the overall development of the security of both the international community and Croatia itself. The participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in those missions contributes to the reputation of Croatia in the world, as well as to increasing military, military preparedness and raises the professionalism of the Croatian Army and thus raises the level of security of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And I am taking this opportunity to, as Head of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, report in a few words to this High House and the public on the recent 59th annual session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Dubrovnik. That meeting was the most numerous political event ever held in the Republic of Croatia. Nearly 300 parliamentary deputies from 28 NATO member states, associated members and members of observers and partners attended him. With the guests of the lecturers and the accompanying staff, more than 700 people were present. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly as well as other parliaments are working on committees at plenary sessions. Two plenary sessions were held for the first time in Dubrovnik. On Friday's first, she was dedicated to the opening ceremony, spoke to the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Ivo Josipovic, the President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Josip Leko, the first Deputy Prime Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, Ms Vesna Pusic, and NATO Secretary-General Andres Fogh Rasmussen. The following day, five NATO parliamentary assembly committees, a political committee, a defence committee, a civil dimension committee, a committee on the economy and a Committee on Science held a debate. The second plenary session was held on the 4th day of Monday, where Mr. Josip Leko, the president of the Croatian Parliament, also held the theme "Safety and Parliamentism". The overall topics of discussion were NATO's departure from Afghanistan, Syria, Egypt and migration problems, given the tragic event of the sinking of the ship in front of Lampedusa, North Africa, Mali, conditions in the Balkans, smart defence of open-door policies, green defences, women in defence policies and many other topics. If the conduct of excellent quality discussions spoke and passed resolutions but guests lecturers from Croatia and the world were engaged by Croatian delegations, Foreign and European Minister Vesna Pusic and Assistant... NATO's Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic on the political committee, Defence Minister Ante Kotromanovic, together with Slovenian Defence Minister Romana Jakic and Generals Lovric and Commodore Hranj on the Defence Committee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Minister Vrdoljak on the Committee on Economy and Ambassador Zeljko Kuprešak on the Committee on Civil Dimension and Security. Seven high-quality resolutions have been adopted, which will be considered as recommendations at the next NATO summit in Great Britain in 2014. As Head of Organizational Preparations, I must publicly praise here the cooperation with all included ministries, especially the Ministry of Defence, which enabled the performance of the acrobat flight group Krilo Storm, the military pipe orchestra and the St. Juraj bench. Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Ministry of Tourism and certainly the Ministry of Interior, which was responsible for the security of the entire meeting. Special merits, recognitions go to employees and employees of the Croatian Parliament who have done an unusual enthusiasm and a special surprise march without error a lionic part of this huge organisational work. We saved between the other and 40% of the approved budget. I think that today, almost a month away, we can be not only content but also proud of the effects of the 59th annual session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. The Croatian Parliament as a domestic and organisational political and media conference managed to do a huge job. We presented Croatia to the world public as a serious and credible political partner in terms of security. Croatia has been confirmed as an excellent host of such a large gathering and Croatia has witnessed as a beautiful country of infinitely rich cultural history Our Croatian Parliament rightly takes all the credit. [[/Intruder: Bring your colleague to the site. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55363	Comrade Zdravko Ronko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55364	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister of Defence. Here is a report that reflects the overall state of the defence system, but also a reflection of the economic crisis we have found ourselves in and that has caused many projects to be somewhat slowed down. But even in such conditions, we can really say that it is in 2012. The defence ministry and the Armed Forces have successfully carried out their legal, constitutional task, that the process of full integration of the armed forces into NATO alliance has been successfully completed. And that we were successful or that we successfully participated in international peace operations and missions. She asked a colleague if I'd be long, I said no because the predecessors already said a lot. I'm going to say a quick word about gender equality at the Department of Defense and the Armed Forces. So I would like to welcome the revision of that action plan to promote and establish gender equality, and I would like to welcome the establishment in '12. The Committee on Gender Equality on that staff advice and the institution of the Gender Equality Coordinator. I think there's a lot of work to be done for them, and the more gender equality is defined in our Constitution as one of the greatest constitutional values of our order, the order of the Republic of Croatia, and I think that in the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence there really is a lot of space in which we can implement this particular value. That's what the numbers say, I have here 19271 employees at the Department of Defense and the Armed Forces, of them 3000 or 89 women and some 16%, of 15, 16000 women in the active military group of women are 9.83%, officers, soldiers, these officers 7 women under 5, here, and I think these data is saying enough that there's a lot of work to do and that we should do a lot of doing this and therefore give one stronger and more support to these efforts. The joyous fact that we have six officers who have an act of brigade, happy and she announces that we will have at least a temporary general, and after fulfilling the conditions and lasting but here we are not yet, unfortunately we do not have a general. I believe that's still going to happen. Our colleague Dunja has been a little hasty, but I hope it will be soon. So much for gender equality. One more moment, I'd like to draw attention to another moment just related to the announcement of this meeting tomorrow, the meeting. So it's about openness and transparency. Armed forces have always been somehow an area of great secrecy. It was all kind of covered in secret, a little bit of it was known, but lately there's been a lot of question about whether everything really needs to be covered in secret and personally alone and I support these efforts to keep these secrets, that veil as little as possible, and that we should at least get off what we don't need. Why? Well, maybe because here today says colleague Baranovic, it was supposed to be like this, it was supposed to be like that, somehow he was working out maybe a tight circle that the public wasn't a professional public maybe wasn't involved enough, and those who might suggest that we spend every single one of them far better than we've spent in some past, not judging either the past or anyone who's made decisions in the past. I always believe everyone worked for the best. When I read the figures from this report where you have, at least that's how it's written, 800 announcements and news, 4000 questions about defence skills, appearances on all available media and public intelligence. That is why you have support, that is why the Ministry also has support on all channels, television, newspapers, the Internet, social networks, etc. It does say that we have one openness and one transparency right in the Ministry of Defense and in the Armed Forces. And that is why I would like to highlight this particular decision-making when it comes to those important decisions, especially financial decisions, as we will have tomorrow, so a procurement plan in the Armed Forces or a presentation of that plan, that this will be presented to the Defence Committee, and also to the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, which I think is extremely, extremely important. I'm going to say one example of this secret, and that's where I'm going to end up. So, at last year's presentation, we had this kind of information. 2011 880 million was covered in secret, 2011. 840, 2012 was 154, so all 9% was covered in secret. I believe that tomorrow we'll have opportunities to get information that at least we'll keep that percentage if it won't be less, and then we'll have fewer problems with those who warn or doubt might better say what happened to the patricians, to the trucks and all of those possible opportunities and troubles that we can get into and that there's always a suspicion. Here I was just trying to sort of support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55365	Thank you. The final five minutes on behalf of the HDSSB representative club, Col. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55366	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow few. A small company, but the chosen one says if we're going to pick up a soldier's army, by the former army, but good. The HDSSB Club will support this report, which is written solidly, concisely, with clearly expressed and presented data regarding the readiness of the defence system of our Croatian Armed Forces, the implementation of human resources policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. I would not like to repeat those I would say a bit of black and pessimistic statements which my colleague Baranovic, is not here, is not nice to speak but indeed in a little black tone he spoke about our Armed Forces, about the readiness of our technique, about the thirty percent so the readiness of our tanks M-84 is mainly because these tanks are produced and produced in our factory in Slavonski Brod in Đura Djakovic, and we have a chance that we have a good chance of having in relatively reasonable financial frameworks and repairing and improving that percentage of the readiness of these tanks. When I was in '95. Was on the Velebit... In a special unit of police. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's when we're helicopters, those cabins, the so-called. Even those MI-8s were getting supplies and everything else they needed. Among them were milk 5 and a half percent milk fat. I've never seen milk like that again, not in the store, not in the department store, not in any store to buy. I just want to say this vividly with one small piece of information that the Croatian Army in those years, these famous years of the Homeland War, was indeed also supplied and ready and that the percentage of our equipment's readiness, our techniques, our operatives, was on my belief at a higher level. Later and recession and crisis, the crisis in Croatia, the economic crisis, so I must say the way in which money was held by our taxpayers, irresponsible behavior has come to our attention that we have this information about the situation in aviation, or aircraft, tank status, the condition of our ships, the combat vessels we have. Here's a rocket gun on that system that S or SS-15 is no longer a rocket gunner but just a gunner because it's actually not in operation anymore, nor is it possible to use them. I mean that both Patria and Patria combat vehicles, which were agreed with Croatia, have caused some debates in Croatia before. Namely, it was sniffed or somehow came up that the contract with Slovenia, perhaps the Deputy Minister will tell us more about it. But if he knows and will, then the contract with Slovenia was a contract that was much more favourable than the contract with Croatia. For the same money, Slovenians got, so the fighting pipe on Patrija, we bought Patri without it. Now other things are being revealed, but I don't want to go into the justice thing and everything. We're already having an affair with the trucks. Here's the disastrous fact that out of 710 trucks there are more than 6 hundred people who don't actually have a manufacturer anymore, so I don't understand that the brands of trucks that exist in Europe, in the West to tell the hemisphere, that we have trucks whose companies, titles, names don't exist anymore, and that we have to look for help from others to get to the point. In any case, it is true that there has been an inconsistencies and spending money in previous years, I will not judge anyone, nor have I any information, nor am I a state lawyer, Bajic. But I heard from our soldiers leaving Slavonski Brod and Afghanistan and everywhere, and not only them that this is the Ministry and this minister Let me just finish my sentence. [[Invader Zgrebec: Bring your colleague to the site of debate.]] So, the best minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia to run the Ministry of Defence excellently, and then this report is actually the result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55367	Thank you, too. On behalf of the promoter, the closing word has the Deputy Minister, Mrs Višnja Tafra.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55368	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Although there are few of us left in the Parliament, I will end up with what I intend to say. So, first of all, I want to thank all of you for taking part in the debate on this report, because for us, every debate and all the praises and criticisms we hear from you can only be an incentive for further work. I don't know who could be happier than us who have been given the mandate to run this ministry so we can say that with the budget for any year we are satisfied, because then we could fulfill everything that we all know together that the Ministry of Defense and the Armed Forces are missing. However, we are located where we are and I must say that indeed the Armed Forces are contributing to making a contribution by their work, which by our behaviour, in order to be able to function within the financial opportunities that we have and to truly carry out all the tasks that are ahead of us. Since this report was for 2012 we could only indicate something that had already taken place in 2013, and perhaps some of the discussions would not have led if I had had the opportunity to say them already, and I will now take advantage of the opportunity, so I will indeed list only some of the things that happened in the meantime as an improvement. What you respect most here is the right, which means the state of our equipment and everything we have in the Armed Forces. However, as I said, a decision was made on the remounting of the blinks and the remonting of the flashes is going. So, a 7-minute contract has been concluded that's being remounted and five-seconds away, so that we have a 12 squadron, we hope and we believe that by the end of November of this year, and that's soon, the first three will come to the Republic of Croatia. So we'll continue to maintain the ability to protect our airspace. So it's a 14m-euro contract and we hope that the deadline for its execution, in total, will be respected in 30.06.2014. We also entered into a helicopter again for 83 million kuna by 15.04.2014, a contract was signed with Ukraine and a remont of those helicopters. Equally, you had the opportunity to hear great speculations in Croatian media and individual doubts about how they are performed. The Ukrainian defence minister also visited the Republic of Ukraine these days. The defence minister is also preparing for a visit to Ukraine and we hope that these two jobs will also be successfully completed. As far as coastal patrol ships are concerned, we're on our way to the process. A public procurement procedure opened this year. For your information he is now in the second stage, it is a negotiation procedure. These days, so he stopped the first round and these days he was right after the appeal that was made in the first round the state office had resolved about the appeal so that the process continued. These days, there is a period, let's call it, a standstill in which the bidders who stayed in play have time to coordinate the pre-project offered by the Ministry of Defence with the main project. And we expect 19.12. to open final offers for coastal patrol ships. So, in 2015, we intend to see our first coastal vessel, and 2018 to complete the process. Furthermore, you mentioned some of the other jobs that happened in the past. We found them, and we wouldn't want to look back at them because that's the time that's past. So there is a lot of talk about fighting armored vehicles in both the media and the Croatian public. So 126 combat armored vehicles were arranged. Is that a lot or a little? Armed forces say that this is enough for their needs, but at the moment of the contract, the Croatian party decided to mean only for so-called base armored vehicles, in such a way that such contracts, sir, respected parliamentary representatives, were concluded, and that in my assessment, it did not see at all what would mean only a base vehicle, which everything must have in order for the total to be operational. And so, in the process itself, it happened that from the original version, it meant getting all the vehicles, it had to give up when it was understood by certain versions of the combat vehicle, how much it would ultimately cost. Here I am, for example, telling you, means that we found in the Department of Defense that 56 armed stations were arranged 12/7 mm and 170 million kunas were paid. In 2013, we contracted these same stations 58 which for 140 million kuna. I think this is what I've answered your question. So, we're left with a contract for next year, there were 16 stations planned on 16 armored vehicles, a 30-mm cannon, unfortunately due to limited financial resources, an agreement has been reached that so far will be 8. However, all that happens is we continue to do so. You all mentioned a tank. I also have to tell you that the Department of Defense has concluded this year with Djur Djakovic's 10 tank review contract. We couldn't anymore because we didn't have any more money. For next year, we expect this process to continue. However, I must also tell you that we have found the situation that the Ministry of Defence for Strategic Reserve Reserves of Tanks that have never used paid the annual "Djury Djakovic" a certain amount of money that is extremely large. I don't think all of this needs a comment. We also found the TALES relays that were bought for 115 million kunas. Unfortunately, they were not put into service at all. These days we are looking for solutions at all whether they are somewhere in the Armed Forces to serve, but in the number that has been obtained unfortunately the complete system will not be needed. We also found the Vogis geoinformation system. He was contracted for four years as a multi-annual funding company with Geofoto. A little less than 60 million kuna was paid, there was no final result because the product we got was not satisfactory. It was up to us to find a way to finish this project so that the Armed Forces will eventually get the military tickets they need, or we will stop it now after the money has been spent. Our decision was to continue with this procedure. We were able to negotiate with the negotiator to determine what was done, what amount of price, how much he failed to fulfil the contractual obligation, within which time it will be fulfilled and when it will continue to be somewhere in mid-2014 with a contract that is expected to end in 2017. Someone here has honored my investment in science and knowledge. We would certainly like to be able to invest more, but here I am telling you means the effort that has been done this year, which is that the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces first agreed with the University of Zagreb and signed means that a military-professional study is being established. This is the first time that the Republic of Croatia will have students who will be educated at the University of Zagreb for two directions, one social and one technical. These days the promotion will begin and we intend to raise, so the Croatian Military School at the Science Institute means where our future officers will be educated. In the first row, it will be first-raters, for now three years and the fourth year would be an integrated year for the needs of the Armed Forces. The promotion among our graduates will begin these days and we hope that this response will be great. Inside that with the university we agreed that one base of this on HVU remains a scientific research activity, I'm sorry Mr. Tudjman doesn't have here to hear it as well. Thank you for supporting this report. It means that gender equality has certainly plenty of space to work in this area, but we are really trying to involve women in all aspects and we are also trying to attract them. Military service is something that is hard, you all know, and it means only those who pass means certain tests of abilities can stay with us in the ministry. As far as questions are concerned for the future general, so this is about the offer the Republic of Croatia received, it is about one position of the ISAF DG in the mission. We hope to be able to answer it. And in order for the lady who was proposed to be, she graduated from war school in America so that she could go to that position. And after spending a certain amount of time in that position and it's a general position, so within a year, you'd get the conditions to promote the rank of general. Here's another thank you. And really with a message that I hope that we will be able to see this next report from 2013 in this Croatian House and discuss it in the first quarter of 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55369	Thank you very much. And we also have a replica of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55370	Thank you very much, Madam Deputy Minister. I admire you with how much peace and clarity you're talking about what's been going on. Because it really is, so I would say mildly any irresponsible behaviour and irresponsible spending of Croatian taxpayers' money. And not only that, your well-intentionedness to say, let me say, let's put it mildly, and the IDs have also impressed me here, and thank you again for your report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55371	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report later. And now for tomorrow's work. We'll start at 9.30 with a proposal for a decision to call a state referendum, so that's point 10, and then we'll go to point 11, 12 and so on. And on Thursday, we would eventually return to the report. Thank you very much and goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-05-0.u55372	Annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of staff policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces for 2012 with the report on the state of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia for 2012. The debate on the report is closed. In line with the proposal of the Defence Committee as a home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces for 2012 is accepted with the report on the state of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia for 2012". Please state by raising your hands on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed conclusion was accepted unanimously by 117 votes in favour.
