ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28955	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. We move to a discussion on - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the 2002 Protocol to the Athens Convention on the Transport of Travelers and their luggage of the Sea from 1974, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 264 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure, respected Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28956	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The International Convention on the Transport of Passengers and their Bags of the Sea adopted in Athens in 1974 is the first successful international unification instrument in the area of international maritime transport of passengers and their luggage. The Athens Convention entered into force in 1987, and the Republic of Croatia became a party to this Convention in 1998. The Athens Convention was amended by the 1976 protocols. And in 1990. In 1998, the Republic of Croatia confirmed both of those protocols. The maritime transport of passengers and luggage in Croatian legislation is regulated by the maritime code. The latest and substantive amendment of the Athens Convention was reached by the 2002 Protocol confirming this law, improving the legal position and ensuring greater protection of passengers in maritime transport at international level. In 2002, the 2002 Protocol increased the amount of liability limits which proved to be too low in relation to possible damage claims, increased the liability of the carrier by introducing objective liability for the damage caused by death and the physical injury of passengers resulting from a maritime accident. Mandatory liability insurance for the damage caused by the death or physical injury of passengers has been introduced, thus trying to ensure a safer and faster collection of claims to the potential prosecutor or the injured passenger. The limit of compulsory insurance shall not be lower than 250 thousand units per passenger for each individual event, and the unit of account per passenger shall be 8.90kn. The 2002 Protocol to the 1974 Athens Convention has not yet met the conditions for entry into force and so far counts 9 countries of parties required 10 for its entry into force. The Protocol would enter into force 12 months after the date on which the Republic of Croatia would become a 10-nation party. Any State may cancel this Protocol at any time of course when the Protocol enters into force for that State. The Party to this Agreement was Denmark, Latvia and the Netherlands and the European Union, which in order to strengthen the safety of maritime transport and the better position of passengers, adopted the Regulation on the liability of the maritime carrier for the death and physical injury of passengers in the event of a maritime accident and, in accordance with Regulation 392/92, in the responsibility of maritime passenger transport in the event of an accident, the consolidated text of the 1974 Athens Convention and the 2002 Protocol, which are contained in the Annex to the first Regulation, binding from 31 December 2012 to all members of the European Union. This means that all ships flying to ports in the Member States of the European Union from 1 January 2013 must have a certificate of insurance or other financial guarantee of liability for the damage caused by the death and physical injury of passengers. In the case of the Republic of Croatia, the statement referred to above would be issued by the port captainate on the basis of a confirmation of the insurance undertaking, i.e. the issuer of the financial guarantee. In 2012 Croatian shipmen transported a total of 239451 passengers and 40075 vehicles on international lines. Following the fact that all ports on those lines are located within the European Union, and taking into account the application of Regulation 392/09, the ratification of this Protocol by the Republic of Croatia will not cause additional costs to Croatian shipowners which would otherwise not have been incurred. Since carriers and insurance companies were unable to provide coverage of the protocol of the envisaged levels of responsibility and of the damage caused by terrorism and war risks, the legal committee of the International Maritime Agency adopted guidelines for the implementation of the Athens Convention in October 2006 amending the 2002 Protocol containing the uniform form and content of the reserve and calling on countries to ratify the 2002 protocol and to take into account the recommended guidelines and the reserve. The Republic of Croatia, with the approval of the 2002 Protocol, declares reservations in accordance with IMO guidelines and reserve on the application of the Athens Convention and also repeals the '74 Athens Convention. And '76 protocols. And in 1990. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28957	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the HDZ club, the respected representative Branko Bačić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28958	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the 2002 Act of Confirmation of the 2002 Protocol at the Athens Convention on the Transport of Passengers and their Bags of the Sea of 1974. In fact, this convention was also adopted for the reason that world shipping was taught by the experience of numerous maritime accidents and tragedies that occurred in history were faced with very high compensation requests from passengers due to the problems they experienced in these maritime accidents. Let us remember one of the largest, it is certainly the sinking of the Titanic passenger ship with a large number of victims and passengers and crews, and certainly one of the significant and larger maritime accidents happened last year with the Costa Concordia passenger ship on the Italian coast. It is this fact that, often, maritime accidents occur because maritime navigation is exposed to a number of dangers, and largely in international waters, maritime circles around the world have begun their activities in international regulation on passenger transport earlier than in other transport areas. Before the Athens Convention itself, there were two conventions that systematically resolved the insurance of passengers and their luggage in international navigation, primarily an international convention signed in 1961 in Brussels, and later the International Convention on Equalisation of certain rules on the carriage of passengers and luggage from 1967. But as travel in the world required the ever-increasing construction of larger passenger ships, the international maritime organisation decided to make a systematic document, which is why this convention, which we ratify the protocol today, is therefore the Athens Convention on the Transport of Travelers and Bags of the Sea, was adopted in 1974. The convention, which was adopted in 1974, addresses all those issues that had been settled with the two international conventions mentioned before. The Convention pays special attention to the ship's responsibilities for the damage caused by death, physical injury to passengers, as well as damage to luggage. The Convention applies only to ships carrying out international navigation, as well as to ships carrying out voyages in national navigation if they agree at a foreign port during the journey. The responsibility under this Convention is based on the principle of proven guilt, and most of the damage is limited according to the 1974 Convention in gold francs. The convention was later changed on two occasions, for the first time in the 1976 protocol when gold francs were replaced with special towing rights that actually represent an average, or average course of all major world currencies. And today, not only in this area, but also in all other damages that occur at sea, the damages have the right to claim the amount of compensation in accordance with this particular drag rights that represent the average course of the world's most important currencies. The 1990 Protocol significantly increased the amount of passenger liability restrictions. Since these protocols did not rightly resolve or limit the liability of the carrier because the damage claims were growing as well as because of the resolution of other emerging issues, this protocol has been adopted which I hope to ratify today by this Act and which is practically a new convention because it cancels... The 1974 convention, so clearly the Croatian Government, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will, when we adopt this Law, have to cancel the 1974 Convention together with the 1976 and 1910 protocols. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As Mr. Deputy said in 2002, this protocol has not yet come into force, and a document is not yet mandatory for the Member States of the International Maritime Organisation and for Croatia. However, the European Commission has adopted a special regulation obliging EU Member States to ratify this Protocol, and in this sense our Parliament is obliged to ratify this Protocol because it has entered into force for EU members as early as 1 January of this year so that the practical ratification of this Protocol is also the harmonisation of Croatia, i.e. Croatian legislation with the acquis of the EU. And clearly, according to the ratification of this Protocol, the Government of the Croatian Parliament will need to propose an amendment to the Maritime Code in order to then become this protocol and an integral part of Croatian legislation. One little correction to what Mr. Deputy said. It is not entirely true that the implementation of this protocol will not constitute additional costs for Croatian boaters in the part relating to Jadrolini. Namely, this protocol or convention refers to international navigation and also to national navigation if the shipowner touches one side of the port in that navigation. As Jadrolini maintains international sailing on the Adriatic, it will be necessary to further increase the insurance premium at the relations of Dubrovnik – Bar and Split – Pescara, Split – Ankona and Zadar – Ankona at these locations of Jadrolini which will generate additional costs in the business of our national shipowner. They are not large, but in any case, for the number of passengers sailing on those international lines, Jadrolini will need to be increased and there will be an increase in costs based on an increase in the insurance premium. So, from everything that is written in the law, it is certainly that the Republic of Croatia, by joining full EU membership, should ratify this protocol, should be introduced, implemented into national legislation and clearly then ensure additional security for all passengers arriving in Croatia or sailing on foreign vessels sailing in international navigation. In particular, this protocol will reflect large passenger ships such as cruisers that will significantly increase the price of travel, the price of tickets on these circular trips. This is because of everything I have said clearly that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this law ratifying the 2002 protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28959	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected representative Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28960	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, gentlemen of the Ministry. Here is how the Pannonian sailors talk a little bit about the transport of passengers and their luggage, so the sea, or the confirmation of the 2002 protocol to the Athens Convention. There we are, Mr. Djakic. We can sail on the Sava, and you can't sail with Drava at Virovitica's yet. Well, here's why we can sail. Don't throw it away. So, it's about, I'd say, perfecting the Athens Convention and Protocols. So, the 74 Athens Convention. The year was brought and then it was '87. years to say completed protocols. Then, the new '90s protocol. In 2002, then, finally, let's say exactly where all the cases were planned and described, i.e. the compensation of the damage suffered was in terms of physical damage, death or the disappearance or damage to the luggage of passengers on board ships sailing in ports between the two countries, two countries or therefore sailing from ports in one country. But as counterpart Bačić said, they are coming to the port of another country, so he cited a picturesque example if he travels from Dubrovnik to Rijeka and comes to Ankon, or another Italian port, then this Athens Convention and the protocols listed here are mostly the last of 2002 to be fully applicable. Since the EU countries have already, therefore, become acceptable to them and entered into force on 31st, so at the beginning of this year, I think that, given Croatia's accession, let's now be a little bit more certain than just a few days ago on July 1st this year, and this bill bears the E mark, so compliance with the EU acquis. In any case, there's nothing left for us but to be on this bill. But what might be good to say for those preparing for any sea voyages is that there have been improvements in this evolution of the Athens Convention on several occasions. In fact, it was that this convention at first was to say very strict for carriers, for organisers, for those representing carriers because it was like auto responsibility for objective responsibility, which in that case put all passengers first. The improvements in the subsequent protocols, and in particular in 2002, there have been two types of responsibilities and there are also the responsibilities of passengers on board, either in case of physical injury, or in case of damage or the disappearance of luggage, which can actually be assessed as a balancing responsibility and acceptable to each of the EU Member States by an acceptable solution. Here is, therefore, the objective responsibility which was and which today is a problem in the auto responsibility of the lawyers well know it here is nevertheless somewhat tempered and in some changed form. Therefore, some division, sharing and responsibilities between the users of maritime transport services and the organisers, i.e. the shipowner or the owner and who organises the transport of passengers at sea. The HDSSB club will accept this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28961	Thank you. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met, and that'll be today at noon.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28962	Final proposal of the 2002 Act on Confirmation of the 2002 Protocol to the Athens Convention on the Transport of Travelers and their luggage of the sea from 1974, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 264 The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 127 votes for the adoption of the 2002 Protocol at the Athens Convention on the Transport of Passengers and their luggage of the Sea of 1974, the text proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28963	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the multiannual Operational Programme "Protectation of the Environment" to assist the Community in the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance under the "Regional Development" Component in Croatia, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 262. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds and the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. The HDZ Club will be spoken of by a respected representative, Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28964	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy, Your Honor, The HDZ Club will support the Law attesting the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the multiannual Operational Programme "Environmental Protection" for Community assistance under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance under the "Regional Development" Component in Croatia with the final draft of the law. The Operational Programme "Protect the Environment" is supporting the achievement of the objectives of protecting and improving the goals of the natural and life environment in Croatia with positive post-war effects indicated for Croatia's future development. The Republic of Croatia has opened negotiating Chapter 27. – Environment in February 2010 and already in December of the same year temporarily and closed this chapter with defined transitional periods in certain areas. By harmonising and properly implementing environmental protection regulations, Croatia aims to achieve European standards in the field of environmental protection, i.e. The aim is to improve waste management, better quality and increased supply of drinking water to the population, as well as increased integration to public sewage and purification systems, habitat protection and plant and animal species, the protection and improvement of air quality, the reduction of industrial pollution as well as the safe management of chemicals. According to Croatia's estimates for harmonising legislation with European environmental legislation, about 10 billion euros should be invested by 2025, including investment in water management and a billion euros for water supply, around 3 billion euros for disposal, for waste management of around 3.25 billion euros and for air protection and nature protection, noises of around 2 billion and 250 million euros. Croatia has sought transitional periods for those directives and areas that require large investments such as waste water treatment, waste treatment and industrial pollution. The operational programme for environmental protection is supported by environmental protection objectives and focuses on concrete objectives and investments in the development of infrastructure for the establishment of an integrated waste management system in the Republic of Croatia for the protection of water resources through the improvement of the water supply system and the integrated waste water management system, as well as the strengthening of the capacity of the bodies involved in the implementation. The original agreement was signed in 2008 and was the basis for the use of grants in the 2007-2009 budget period. In 2010, an agreement was signed that allowed the use of grants during the 2007-2011 financial period. This Agreement on the financing of the Operational Programme "Environmental Protection" adds one and a half financial years, so in 2012, and the first half of 2013 it is precisely the time in which we are now adopting this law, i.e. the total amount of 46.8 billion euros, of which the European Commission from IPA provides grants of 39.8 billion euros and the value of national co-financing is 7 million euros. Therefore, IPA grants available for the operational programme "Environmental Protection" in the period 2007-2013 amount to 131m euros. The operational programme covering the period 2007-2013 is aimed at investing in infrastructure projects for the construction of waste management centres, wastewater treatment plants, and the construction and disposal of the water supply and disposal network. The total amount of planned euro funds has been allocated to co-finance projects from three priority areas. Priority on the axis, this is the waste management sector 42043m euros, priority on axis 2 is the water management sector, and 86.8m euros, and priority on axis 3 is technical assistance of 2.1m euros. Of the previously mentioned 10 billion euros in investments for the chapter... The environment of the Republic of Croatia for waste management and the construction of waste management centres, the recovery of landfills and the recovery of pollution, the polluted areas must be allocated about three and a half billion euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Republic of Croatia has committed itself to establishing a full waste management system by 2018. Years of construction of waste management centres and the rehabilitation of all existing dumps. The first phase of the construction of the Bikarac waste management centre in Sibenik-Knin County was co-financed in the wake of these goals in front of the ISPA accession programme. The works at the first stage of Bikarac included the rehabilitation of the old and editing of the new disposal deck, the construction of wastewater treatment facilities and the purchase of the necessary equipment for the Bikarac waste management centre. Co-financing through ISPA ended at the end of 2011. Years with the remaining smaller works completed by the end of last year. The total value of the first stage of Bikarca is 8m euros. Of these, five million euros were secured through ISPA, and the remaining funds were provided by the Environmental Protection Fund and the town of Sibenik. Through the IPARD approach programme, two projects have just been launched and this county waste management centre of Marinscina in the Primorje-Goran County and the Kastijun waste management centre in Istria County. However, here I must note that despite the phase in which the projects were left in 2011. Years have not yet begun work on their construction. We recall that in the Monitoring report last year, the European Commission stressed the importance of increasing investments among others in the area of water and waste management and stressed that special attention should be paid to the timely fulfilment of waste management obligations. In addition to this slowness and stalemate in the implementation of projects of the construction of the Marinščina county waste management centres in the Primorje-Goran County and Kastijun in Istria County over the past year, I would also like to point out that a year has been lost to continue and some other projects have already started to build a waste management centre. One such example is the construction of a waste management centre in Dubrovnik-Neretva County where the government's underdeveloped policy for Dubrovnik-Neretva County lost a year. In accordance with the Spatial Plan of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, the project is a constitutional management of municipal waste, plans to be achieved by the end of 2015. Years. As the location of the waste management centre, the location of the Lučino period was selected which was 2010. Years included in the spatial plan of the County of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska. The County Waste Management Centre was among the priority projects planned to finance from the IPARD third b component. The estimated value of the county waste management centre is 350 million kuna and the estimated value of the project documentation is 10 million kuna. A contract was signed with the Environmental Protection Fund on the financing of the project documentation of environmental impact studies was submitted to the Ministry in November 2010 and the procedure for assessing the impact of the interventions on the environment was launched. In accordance with the ministry's conclusion on the need to carry out the water of investigative works at the site, the Fund has launched a tender for investigators but has not implemented the financing of signed research contracts, which has practically stopped a further course of implementation of this project. For example, for Dubrovnik-Neretva County, such an underdeveloped policy has been lost for almost a year, so we have therefore proposed, by amendment to the national budget of 2013, to include this project in the financial plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2013. A year to ensure the signed resources for the completion of the project documentation, the purchase of land, and the implementation of those investigative works. Furthermore, it is important to note that in order to establish an integrated waste management system, it is necessary to implement the harmonisation of legislation with the EU acquis until the end. The adoption of new roof laws, primarily from the waste area, and we expect the Government to finally submit a proposal for waste management laws to the Croatian Parliament. The second roof law is the Environmental Protection Act, and the third roof is the Nature Protection Act. It also noted in the latest monitoring report, however, the deadlines set out in the 2012 legislative harmonisation plan. It's been a year. In October 2012 In the year, a waste management plan was announced that after the entry into force of the new Waste Act, a new national waste management plan would be joined. I conclude, acts which are these three roof laws are not passed, investments stand and practically last year represents a loss in the part relating to waste management in the Republic of Croatia. As for investment in water, this programme also focuses on projects to protect Croatia's water resources through improvement of the water supply system and an integrated waste water management system. The total cost of construction required to fully comply with the requirements of the Directive on the treatment of municipal waste water and the Water Directive for drink will be 3.5 billion euros. In order to meet the requirements of the Water for Drinks Directive, it is necessary to invest a billion and 352m euros in total, and to meet the requirements of the Communal Waste Water Directive three billion and 200m euros. After accessing ISPA and IPA programmes, by entering the EU by the Republic of Croatia from 1. July 2013 In years, the Republic of Croatia will have significantly higher resources at its disposal for infrastructure projects in the protection of the environment. The priorities of the ISIP operational programme primarily waste water continue in the first generation structural funds for the period 1 July 2013 and 31 December 2013 but with much higher amounts. For the illustration of the measures, we list the total IPA funding for 6.5 years is 131m euros, and in structural funds, it is potentially only 6 months, and this year it is 165m euros. Finally, I want to highlight the importance of enhanced efforts both in the development of legislative regulation and in the preparation and implementation of the project. We expect that during the first half of 2013 the Government finally sent the Proposal for a Law on Waste Management to the Parliament, to finally refer the proposal for a Law on Nature Protection and the Proposal for a Law on Environmental Protection, which was set out in the 2012 plan. This will be the key to achieving all the deadlines set out in the access contracts for the chapter of the environment. Here's from everything I've said, the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28965	Thank you very much. We have a replica on this exhibit. Dear Representative Zeljko Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28966	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Just for the sake of the public, the fact that in this part of what Bačić mentioned as regards the waste dump in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, the contract signed with the Fund in 2010 was not implemented in 2010 or in 2011 for all of us known reasons that took place in the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, and that the competition was now repeated in 2012, that the studio performer was selected, that this will now be done. And the funds were not spent in 2011 for all of us known reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28967	The replica matches the esteemed Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28968	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative, according to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Environmental Impact Study was dedicated in the 10th month of 2010. In early 2012, the government announced that the location of Lucino Razdolje is not good enough to build a municipal waste management centre for reasons of being located in the third sanitary zone, and given the proximity of the Maloston Bay. And that was the government's position for eight or nine months. After that, when in Zadar County the agreement was given that a waste management centre could be built on the same third zone of sanitary water protection, then the position in the government or ministry was changed and it was allowed to continue work on research activities on the project and purchase of land at the previous location of Lucino Razdolje. Thus, the government wandered the 10 or 11 months last year in a waste management manner in Dubrovnik-Neretva County first gave up its location. The second was the proposal to enable the ship's burner after the company and then gave up and eventually returned to the original proposal set out in the county spatial plan, which is that for Dubrovnik-Neretva County, however, it was established as a reference point by the County Waste Management Centre. And only after that were the research papers continued, it continued with the project documentation. We have invested in the HDZ Club an amendment to the state budget in order to complete this fund centre now to secure the necessary funds so that we can move on. in realising the project itself. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28969	The HDSSB club's position will be presented by respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28970	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Pugliz. I won't talk much like my predecessor who almost said everything. But I'll look back on just what I'm not exclusively regional, but when my colleague Bačić is already talking about the funds provided for in this agreement for all of what is therefore waste disposal, waste dumps, etc. Then he mentioned air protection and the amount of 2.25 million euros in this regard. Well, I would like to ask, although there are also those here from the former government, but also the current ones, and based on the confirmation of this Agreement on financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the EU Commission amending the Agreement on financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission for the Multi-annual Operational Programme "Protectation of the Environment" to assist the Community in the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance under the Component of the Regional Development of Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, has it ever considered that it is precisely from these funds that 2.25m euros is used or something to try to do in connection with improving the quality of air in Slavonski Brod, which is a burning problem, I would say ecologically this country. I know and we all know that the refinery of oil in the Bosnian ship is not on Croatian territory but on the territory of the so-called. Republika Srpska, but the quality of life, therefore, is not measurable in terms of the concentration of sulfurs, benzenes and all others who are quantifiable but odour that disrupts the quality of life that you can't take your grandson for a walk, that you can't dry the laundry outside and a series of others, that you can't do sports activities, etc. This is therefore what even one person from Russia who is nowhere near the membership of the European Union in the European Court of Justice's case is being sued, it is called the Fadeev case. We as a state, here's an opportunity for me, given that the topic is very close, we keep thinking about how we might press charges and so on. The Republic of Serbia or BiH or that directly polluter, and how to sue him. Well, you have Mrs. Zmajlović and the others, he's not here, yesterday he was Mr. Justice Minister, justice, whatever you want. So, the way and the form in which a Russian citizen in Putin's power won a dispute with Russia precisely because of a violation of the quality of life. Unfortunately here is the fact that citizens' associations in Slavonski Brod really work hard and constantly press and media, and since our children live there, and that the real quality of life is catastrophic, air quality, the Croatian state remains very little or almost nothing on this issue. Now, I was talking about Fadey as a way to put pressure on someone by official means, so there's a court way, and that's the other way. Is any euro and this agreement foreseen for that purpose. And not only that, between Croatia, BiH and the European Union or the Commission, the so-called A tripartite agreement on the financing of cross-border environmental and tourism projects, which was a grant of over 2m euros. Not these funds, but quite some others. So I wonder, that was at a time when HDZ was a government, whether it was as obvious then as it is not now, that any euro or how much should be used to solve this burning ecological problem of the Republic of Croatia and over 80,000 citizens of Slavonski Brod and the surrounding area. There's nothing, I don't see anything here either. Well, as long as that's how it's gonna be, whether it's gonna be some other deal, not this pre-accession, but accessible. Finally, I must inform you that I have sent a memo to the Secretary of the Committee on the Environment of the European Parliament, and I will also provide all the documentation from measurement stations and measurements, so that the Committee on the Environment, Food and Health, Public Health and Food Safety is made clear on this problem of a region, one city in a country that joins the European Union on 1 July, and that the state is doing almost nothing. Or it's business and money, so it's... so it's the plan of the oil carrier for the oil refinery in the Bosnian ship, so it's JANAF. Is it more important, is this profit more important than about 5 million euros a year, as far as I have knowledge, from the health and quality of life by Fadejev, from the health and quality of life of more than 80,000 citizens. It is clear that we will not be against this legislative proposal to confirm the agreement because it still brings something, so let it be in other parts of Croatia when we already cannot achieve what we need, and that is the normal life and quality of life in Slavonski Brod and let the rest come through this agreement and the amount of money that will come into the Republic of Croatia, at least achieve their ecological projects and programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28971	Thank you, too. This exhibition is being held by a respected representative, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28972	Dear counterpart Grubisic, what you've been saying about pollution from the Bosnian Ship seems to agree to Croatia's entry into the European Union, I only hope for a vasal relationship. All this is happening to the citizens of Slavonski Brod it's actually scandalous because at the state level no one protects the citizens, except that we see from time to time the Minister of Environmental Protection giving statements that should be satisfied, which are the principle statements of citizens of Slavonski Brod who every day breathe the smell and are exposed to the attack of this ecological ship from Slavonski Brod. However, we are also acting on Italy that interferes with TV signals, radio signals across the Adriatic coast and islanders, Istrians cannot monitor the HRT programme and other Croatian TV programmes. But what's done so far, nothing. They say when we enter the European Union, then we'll slap our hands on the table. I wish I could see that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28973	The replica corresponds to the respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28974	Fellow Vuksic, you see these are not the only expressions of the lack of Croatian pride and one to say Croatian relations, attitudes both in Europe and in the environment. Unfortunately, there is no such thing in these governments. Here's an example of what you've already said, that we have a tie and there will be an unresolved border problem with Vojvodina, so now the Republic of Serbia where thousands of acres across the Danube. Serbia seeks the border of half of the Danube. Charengrad Ada further let me say under the occupation of Backa Palanca police, although catastrian and grantically everything was introduced into Ilock. So, undisputed Croatian territory. Unfortunately, no one here cares about that. And when we discuss this tomorrow and when Croatia is in the EU, and Serbia who knows when it will approach, we will have a problem again, as we now have with Slovenia. Well, it's good if there's some kind of Croatian policy in protecting Croatian national interests. Unfortunately, I don't think there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28975	Another replica and respected representative of Sima Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28976	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleague Grubisic. I support these allegations you made on behalf of your club, but I believe that we MPs elected to the 5th constituency must take care of our citizens who have chosen us. And in that sense, I'm giving you support for what you said. However, I believe that we will not solve this problem with appeals, but that problem must be resolved at the level of the two ministries, and if that is not the case then at the level of the two states. There is reportedly another measurement station in the eastern part of Slavonski Brod, but it will only measure the amount of pollution in that part of town. But I think the problem should be solved if Bosnia and Herzegovina wants to, and wants to get closer to the EU, enter it, that their businesses in this particular case, the Bosnian Ship refinery, must respect all the ecological norms and rules that this production requires. To make the situation even more difficult than you said there goes a programme of glues, and the basic means of making glues is bitumen. I think the air in Slavonski Brod and the surrounding area will be further polluted. I therefore need urgent intervention from the two countries to resolve this major problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28977	The replica corresponds to the respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28978	Thank you very much. My colleague Đurđević, finally, that in these five years I have the support of someone from your club, otherwise you've always been against all my suggestions for Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County. And if that's how you give me unconditional support, then I ask you to come to a peaceful protest, i.e. The blockade of the borders that associations, including the Croatian Democratic Assembly of Slavonia and Baranja, will be held very soon, so these days. I hope we live and block the border crossing in Slavonski Brod because otherwise, we no longer have any chance of showing and proving what the citizens think and what they want. And after the blockade of the border, others will follow more drastically to say both stricter and more radical actions of the citizens of Slavonski Brod. So please, if you're not a coward and some political hypocritical come along with me, let's go close the border by walking across the zebra at the border crossing so no one can pass. I'm calling you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28979	We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28980	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, counterpart Bacic spoke on behalf of the club about the importance of this agreement, which was concluded and the figures he mentioned were very large figures in the euro and even billions of euros are mentioned, hundreds of millions of euros. And from the very reason of the law, we can see which obligation and the Republic of Croatia has taken over in this model of co-financing. Therefore, Croatia will have to provide its share of co-financing in the 2013 to 2016 budgets, and the co-financing model is 85% which is very important and very important. However, I must tell you that this debate has led me to something completely different, which is Article 2 of this Law, which says: "This Agreement shall enter into force on the day on which the user informs the Commission that all internal procedures in the Republic of Croatia have been carried out for the entry into force of this Agreement. Why did this interest me, why did this concern me, and why did this raise a number of questions in my head? For a simple reason, because here is also the addition on page 24 under point 12. It is about the Waste Management Centre in Sisak-Moslavina County. It also mentions the estimated value in millions of euros where it is said to be projected for the centre 30m euros. 30m euros is a figure larger than the one-year budget of Sisak-Moslavina County. However, in the last column, the location is under way. All other counties and we can see from this table have determined the location for determining the county's waste management centre. Only Sisak-Moslavina County has not identified one location but has identified 6 locations, which is quite the opposite of the law and I am afraid that in this way it may also affect this Article 2 that I have previously quoted. So what's this about? In 2004, a professional company from Zagreb was built on the basis of the elaborats it also proposed a site of waste disposal in Sisak-Moslavina County. However, I must say here that the SDP coalition for its within coalition reasons gave up this recommended location and in the spatial changes and additions of the Space Plan in 2010. Here, a colleague of Roksandić and I also asked a representative question in the autumn and we received an answer to this particular question about the County Waste Disposal Center that I will read to you. So, the ministry responds to us: "Concrete project implementation activities have not been initiated since no final decision has been made on the location of the centre. According to information available by the ministry on the waste management plan in Sisak-Moslavina County in 2006, more potential locations were proposed – Gvosd, Novska two locations of Sunja, Petrinja, Dvor for construction of the County Waste Management Centre." The amendments and additions of the 2010 Space Plan of the County stated that existing and planned locations require further research. In a letter of 27 August 2012 sent to the Ministry by the Management Department of Sisak-Moslavina County, it stated that research works were carried out at five locations and that it was based on results... a study of the selection of the location of the county centre, and since the county assembly did not accept a study of the location of the county centre where the location for the County Centre Blatush was proposed in the municipality of Gvosd further documentation was not made. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, as a citizen of the Sisak-Moslavina County, as a representative in the Assembly, I have the following questions. Does this mean that this unsettled and illegal part of the Sisak-Moslavina County's spatial plan can be interpreted as an unfulfilled condition in Article 2 of this Act which hinders the possibility of this law entering into force? The second question, can the government ask Sisak-Moslavina County to determine according to the law the location of the County Waste Management Centre? The third question, if Sisak-Moslavina County still doesn't determine the location of landfills that are consequences for the county? So, specifically, will Sisak-Moslavina County be left without these estimated 30m euros because of this sloppyness and negligence? Here is precisely because of these questions I also had a need to discuss today this bill of law, so please if the legislator considers that there are answers to us here, not only to me but also to other colleagues from Sisak-Moslavina County but also to our public, which will be the consequences for Sisak-Moslavina County if this situation continues? So, for eight years, they haven't been able to determine one location, and they're doing studies, and they're lobbying just to buy time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28981	A representative of the government will be given the opportunity to answer this question of yours, but before that we will hear two replicas. The first is the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28982	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Shantek that, as you noticed, Sisak-Moslavina County is the only county that has not crossed and established its location for the construction of the County Waste Management Centre. It is true that in some other counties, I have listed Dubrovnik-Neretvanska there is also a Split-Dalmatia County that there are problems regarding defining the project of building the Regional Centre but have established the location in their spatial plans. What is not good is the fact that the Republic of Croatia has made a commitment in the Chapter – Environment that by the end of 2018 it will build regional centres of the county waste management centre, close all open dumps of either the legal ones or the illegal ones. If that does not happen then the Republic of Croatia will pay for the part that has not been completed in the negotiations we have signed in the Chapter – Environment. Not only will they pay the penalty, it will certainly raise the price of waste disposal to the citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County because at the moment it does not know which location then the citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County would be able to postpone their waste because other counties that have made their own waste management centres have capacitated to the number of residents and to the amount of waste to be delayed. Therefore, it is the obligation of Sisak-Moslavina County to establish the location and seriously approach these activities in the construction of the centre, and the assumption of the construction of the centre is the definition of the location in the Sisak-Moslavina County Space Plan. So for these very reasons you are rightly concerned and as a parliamentary representative from that county, and on the other hand as a citizen of that county because it is very uncertain how and how waste will be handled, and it is high time we are in 2013 and by the end of 2018 it must be built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28983	The replica is answered by the esteemed representative Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28984	Here's a thank you to my colleague Bačić for allowing me to say more and expand this topic. Namely, both colleague Roksandić and I have talked about this problem several times, and while I was a councilman in the County Assembly, we have tried to encourage this problem to be resolved, however, the mayor's response at the time officially from the county pay phone at the County Assembly was that there was no need for the County Centre for Waste Management because the whole of Croatia would be divided into 4 regional centres. For this very reason, my colleague Roksandic and I asked the ministry if the exact information that is present in the public of our county that the government gave up the concept of waste management by county and moved on to the 4 regional centres? The ministry's response was decoded, no. Therefore, there is no reason for Sisak-Moslavina County not to fulfil its obligations. And exactly my debate is about meeting legal obligations. At times, the County Assembly was disbanded because of the lack of a spatial plan. If that's the case with this, let's evaluate the one that's relevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28985	We will now hear the replica of the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28986	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In this second answer, you have actually responded to my replica because I wanted to warn in some way how we tried to solve this problem, and all for the purpose of better waste management in Sisak-Moslavina County. In fact, there is only waste disposal in the entire territory of the county that has been made according to all regulations, it is in the town of Sisak, which has no capacity and cannot be counted on extending any capacity because it has shown from the feasibility study. But the interesting thing is that the county founded an imaginary and municipal EKO company with the purpose of managing waste management at the county level. And then we got a response to the county assembly that there would be four major regional waste management centres and that it wasn't necessary anymore, but the company works, has its employees, or has those who run the company and no one else. That is the problem, the problem is the political decision in the county assembly because parties headed by the SDP do not agree on where the place will be and thus stifle the big problem of the citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County. Another example found in this agreement is a good example of the town of Sisak, which has received on its project the purification of wastewaters of more than 30 million kunas one part of these EBRD funds which is really not only for Sisak-Moslavina County but also for other counties as well as Brod-Posavska and all through which the Sava River flows which are really important to me will tell the entire river flows in Croatia for water protection. There was a good deal, although the same are different political parties, but it was both a concept and a good programme. There's a brake here, and nothing's done. I believe that here is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and must be responsible for this agreement because the signator of this agreement is ultimately, and all of us sitting here will raise our hand for this agreement responsible for why it has not been implemented locally specifically in Sisak-Moslavina County.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28987	The reply to the replica, dear John Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28988	Thank you. I must say, I was as surprised as you were when we heard here the ministry's official response that the county founded a municipal company, ECOSTART d.o.o. with the purpose of managing the waste management system. It's interesting to start a company four years before that. I've been a councilman in the county assembly since 2012. For years and never a report by a company called Ecostart was submitted not only to the county assembly but also to the public of Sisak-Moslavina County. Therefore, I have the feeling that this company ECOSTART has the same capacity and weight as 14 advisers of Lovrić, so that they are some kind of lovely curtain that should show that something is being done, and as it is done, they best say what it says in these documents in the light of the law, which is that Sisak-Moslavina County is the only one of all the counties in Croatia that are covered by this agreement and did not bring a location for the county waste management centre. That speaks enough about the work of Sisak-Moslavina County.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28989	An opportunity to take a look at the government, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, Mr. Jaksa Puljiz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28990	Honorable Vice President, distinguished MPs, MPs. Here's a quick look. First of all, the interpretation of Article 2. As regards Article 2, therefore, there is no fear that Croatia should make the following procedure, the law should be adopted, the law should be entered into force and the European Commission should be informed afterwards and the agreement should enter into force. So any situation with individual projects does not endanger the adoption of this law and its entry into force. As far as the specific situation surrounding this project is concerned, it is within the authority of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. I'll just mention the following in front of the Ministry of Regional Development. We will certainly take care of the absorption and certainly will not put 30 million euros in a situation for these or those reasons to be questioned. And the Ministry of Environmental Protection as the competent ministry will, of course, take care of the commitments the Republic of Croatia has made, meeting these obligations, and then referring to this individual case, so that the solution will certainly be found within a very reasonable period, because otherwise the Croatian side has been suffering certain consequences that are certainly not good for us. As regards the Slavonski Brod case, the environmental protection programme is defined, it has priority areas of investment which are also listed in this legislative proposal, so investments in the framework of the operational environmental protection programme are possible areas in the area of waste management, hence the construction of these centres, the recovery of landfills, or wild dumps, and in the area of water. Therefore, the construction of a water supply system and the construction of a wastewater management system, which means that interventions that would take place in terms of air pollution protection are not provided for by this operational programme and are therefore not acceptable. Of course, this does not mean that such interventions will not be acceptable to the new operational programme covering the 14-20 period, but will certainly be acceptable. What in this case is particularly agreeable to the situation is the fact that the problem is happening on the territory of another country. The cross-border cooperation programmes that we are also reporting here and adopting appropriate legal acts for adoption do not provide for that kind of intervention. Therefore, cross-border cooperation programmes, as well as the cross-border cooperation programme with the BIH, enables the co-financing of certain investments but a smaller financial scale, with the possibility that investments currently financed through the IPA programme can be financed exclusively for the territory of the Republic of Croatia, of course, that the funds provided by the other party in the case of the BIH may be used exclusively for the territory of the BIH. However, these are very small resources of limited amounts and project holders are local, regional self-government, public institutions and associations, so the central state cannot intervene in this case or cannot report its projects and this is the main reason why this situation cannot be addressed from a state level through cross-border cooperation programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28991	I thank you, too. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote in 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28992	Final proposal of the Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Agreement on financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the multiannual Operational Programme "Protection of the Environment" for Community assistance under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance under the "Regional Development" Component in Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 262 The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I note that, unanimously with 127 votes, the Law on the Confirmation of the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Agreement on financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the multiannual Operational Programme "Protectation of the Environment" to assist the Community in the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance under the "Regional Development" Component in Croatia in the text proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28993	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. This is - Proposal for a law on the validation of the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the multiannual operational Programme "Transport" for Community Assistance under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance under the "Regional Development" component in Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 263 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to add an explanation of the proposal? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Josip Boris will discuss. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28994	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister. The HDZ Club will be supported by a proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the multiannual operational Transport Programme. We think it's necessary. We have already extended the duration of this agreement once in this House, this is the second time to cover 2012 and half 2013. This agreement is important because it adds financial allotments for 2012 and half of 2013 and what is perhaps more important is the wider scope of possible operations on the 5B railway pan-European corridor or the famously referred to as the low-level railway journalist, which also causes a number of public debates but certainly a great interest in politics. The total value of the grants in this agreement is 34 million 811 thousand euros, of which the EU provides 85% and 29 million 589 thousand respectively, and the Republic of Croatia 5 million 220 thousand euros. Of course, the goal of every policy is hopefully to make the most of these funds and therefore support the ratification and acceptance of this agreement in the Croatian Parliament. The costs are as set out in the Government's proposal in the 2013 budget. Otherwise, this agreement concerns two priority axes. The first concerns the upgrade and modernisation of the rail transport system in the Republic of Croatia, as well as increasing the safety and efficiency of railway operations in terms of meeting EU standards, while the second priority axis refers to the modernisation and restoration of river waterways and port infrastructures. Of course, the issue of railways today is one of the burning issues in the transport integration of the Republic of Croatia, as well as all the problems encountered in this area should certainly be discussed in this House not through this agreement, but also through some thematic session, as well as how this rail traffic continues. I'm going to look back here a little bit on this 5B corridor on the Rijeka-Zagreb-Botovo railway line because I think there's really a lot of talk about this railroad, and almost nothing about it has been done. These resources that we have available under this agreement are certainly insufficient to do something in this area through this agreement. We heard recently the prime minister says it's no longer a low-rise track, it's now a valley track, so I tried to find out why. Then he says it will be lowland from Zagreb to Skradnik, and from Skradnik to Rijeka it will be valley because there are hills and valleys. The fact is that this government gave up building a low-level railway because simply of all the numerous investors of the Chinese, Indian and all the others who came through delegations to meetings in the government failed to find an obvious model and way to ensure the construction of this port. The finance minister said that the railway line should not be built but should only be ironed a little and that it would be good as such. exclusively on the existing route that in the 12th month there would be a single conclusion of the government which said that in the part of the two-track track tracks from Zagreb to Skradnik there would be little ironing and that part of the so-called The valley railways from Skradnik to Rijeka will be built on a second track and will be about that. Are we going to achieve that goal that was set a few years ago that spoke about a low-level 380km track that would be 50km longer than this old one we now have, which would shorten travel time by 3 hours and cargo speed by 5 hours and increase transport capacity by almost 5 million tonnes from the current 5 million tonnes to 25 million tonnes? This is a question that we will certainly deal with in this time ahead of us. The fact is that from the 4 sectors that we have on that low-level track, we hardly have a shift today except for sector 1 that includes a stock from Long Sela to Križevci where complete documentation has been completed, and I don't know what happens next, and that was over by the beginning of the year. In sector 2......................................................................................... on the Zagreb knot, in sector 3 from Zagreb to Rijeka, in sector 4 knots of Rijeka, nothing happened, and especially in the part of Rijeka knot and from Zagreb to Rijeka because the county that was supposed to bring spatial-planning documentation, and I mean the Primorje-Gorski County, that documentation i.e. The country's spatial plan did not bring forward the issue after numerous discussions and in part that the railway will end and nothing has happened on the island of Krk. That's what politics has to say because the fact is that it's something. that all the funds under this agreement are in the most part engaged in the corridor that goes from Savsky Marof via Zagreb to Tovarnik and here we have certain improvements, especially on the part of the railway Tovarnik-Vinkovci. However, I am afraid that this corridor 5b will remain only a wish because you really do not see any shifts either in planning or in drawing up documentation, let alone in realisation and all expectations right are directed towards European funds, but the question is whether we will succeed and what is available to us if I say we do not have any basic documents such as the spatial plan of a county. The second priority axis refers to the modernisation and restoration of river waterways and port infrastructure. We are in the current length of 804 km of waterways from which 593 international problems are, and that is certainly what certain investments require, and in particular investments in the ports of Osijek, Sisak, Slavonski Brod and Vukovar as possible assistance in the development of integrated transport in the system of river transport, railways or sea transport across seaports, via railways and I say from the Adriatic to central Europe. I say whatever these remarks we have, we see as a wish to make use of all the available resources and therefore support as a club of amendments to this Agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28995	There are 4 replicas reported to this exhibit, but I would like to ask my distinguished colleagues to stop having private conversations and thus interfere with speakers. So you can talk outside the assembly room. Thank you very much. The first replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28996	Thank you very much. Dear Boric, you've put out those projections of the flat track we used to think about when and why we thought the river and the Rijeka port was one of the largest or largest, is our desire to make it. Unfortunately, when we look at Trieste and Kopar, then we see that it doesn't really work that way, and mainly because this railroad or some kind of ironing in the present conditions is one simple patching, it's still not going to help make this Port River what we wanted or what we think it should be. When you spoke about the 10th rail corridor or pan-European corridor, then I must say that two months ago, it was exposed to the European Parliament in the Committee on Transport and Tourism in the main direction, the European North-South direction from Scandinavian countries via Hamburg, Frankfurt to Salzburg, further Vienna, Budapest, Timisvar, Vidin at the borders of Bulgaria and Romania, Sofia, Thessaloniki. This is the main rail route in which billions of euros are invested by the European Union and these countries, and it is already under construction and the plan is to be completed, finished in 2020. Unfortunately, Croatia is nowhere to be found. This 10th Corridor becomes an auxiliary corridor, a railway corridor. It only becomes one auxiliary, one additional corridor of local importance. Now, you're old enough, here's a colleague of Novak who knows a lot about the railroad and worked there, you know there was a train that was driving on the Zagreb-Belgrade route...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28997	Comrade Grubisic, time for this replica is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28998	Four hours is what you want me to say, so let me know when we're gonna have that one relationship again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u28999	Replication response, Reverend Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29000	As regards investments in ports, colleagues Grubišić is known to have state ports in Rijeka, Zadar, Sibenik, Split, Dubrovnik and Plots in Croatia. The Rijeka port for the past 10 years has intense investment in its infrastructure and is now a project under way, the container-based braid is being upgraded and the fact is that we simply cannot monitor the development of the port of Kopar and Trieste which multiplely exceed the transport of cargo in millions of tonnes compared to the port of Rijeka which is closer and which through such a railway could greatly increase its capacity, and certainly for all those who take part in that circle of container transport. I'll just point out that the 100 dollars that are due on landing from one port firm 11 other companies or dozens of other companies are incometing 11 times as much in the delivery of these containers themselves to certain locations. By building this railroad, we would reduce the road traffic of road haulers by almost 1500 which today almost burden me to say this segment, and the fact is that rail traffic is both the cheapest and most flexible and profitable and that is what those who know have turned to. But I'm telling stories like this about the lowlands, the valley stripes without doing anything, we just don't do anybody any good and the damage to ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29001	Second replica of the respected representative Ana Comparić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29002	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here I am many times in this House is really surprised by the way my colleague Boric discusses when he talks about the low-level railroad, about the port of Rijeka. I don't really know who's been in power for the last eight years. A low-level rail is a dead letter on paper, it doesn't exist. There's no paperwork, there's no paper, there's no paper. You haven't done anything in eight years. As for the existing railway Rijeka – Zagreb, it is only 22 years older. It didn't put anything into it. You're talking about the port of Rijeka and the development of the port of Rijeka. Well, without that railroad, of course, she can't develop. I'll tell you one thing. Your former director of Rijeka's port four times the least met the Secretary-General. This guy couldn't remember him. What are we talking about? About your care of the port of Rijeka? Come on, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29003	Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29004	Well, I always expect in this House that there will be a certain level of goodness coming out of us, that we will not be in any way negative or what I would call evil. I said we'd back this deal, I said what I mean. Will your husband, as the current director of the Rijeka port, meet the Minister four times or will I not be interested in it at all and whether he will remember it. That's the problem, either the minister or the one who got to know each other, so he didn't get to know each other. I had nothing to do with it. But if we didn't do anything, it's not true. I said that on the first sector section, documentation was made that goes from the Hungarian border to, from the state border to the Long Sel, and that it is the only one expected in the section of the low-level railway that has four sectors of some kind of shift and work. Everything else stands, and the most important thing is that the Primorje-Gorski County has not yet adopted a county spatial plan and that is a fact. And it has been brought for almost three years, and the biggest opposition is the island of Krk and the desire for the railway to end on the island of Krk in Omislje and the conflict of the local level, meaning all the leaders of the island of Krk and the county services who do not want such a model as they say the development of tourism on our island where we will also get a second bridge and railroad. And they openly opposed it, and the SDP that has ruled both the county and the city of Rijeka for almost 20 years has done nothing about it, and that works at the port of Rijeka continue, the container terminal is being upgraded. Apparently, it's due to the current government in just a year. These papers are running, although I know they've run a lot, a lot before So don't be angry, fellow... [[Intruder Stazic: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29005	Time's up. And the new replica is represented by the respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29006	Dear counterpart Boris, it looks like the railway will end up in the sea rather than in Krk. What you said in your presentation regarding the river railways is absolutely certain that it is of vital interest to the Republic of Croatia and it is very strange that the governments before this Kukuriku government did nothing to build this railway. And how we've been talking all the time for 10, 12, 15 years about how we don't have enough big projects, how we don't know what to do, and we all know we have to build the river line. We all know that this is a priority for the port of Rijeka to develop, so that Kopar does not take over everything that can be transported by the railway and that it does not, remember Copra compared to the Rijeka that the ports were. I mean, that was a minor port toward the river. This is certainly not a situation created in a year, but created in two decades. In two decades, it seemed that Croatia had nothing. This government must certainly start not only to think, but also to take concrete steps to build the river track as soon as possible, and not to know what the situation is, the road load is minority and that 5 times the road and rail traffic ratio as far as the cargo in Europe is concerned. However, in our situation we can not talk about the development of Rijeka or the development of Croatia's economy until we have built a railway according to Rijeka.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29007	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29008	Comrade Vuksic, I disagree with you in part that the previous governments have done nothing. That's why I'm saying everything that's been done on this issue and it didn't quite go exactly as it was now said 10, 15 years ago and so on, but it started more seriously in 2007 when let's just say the word went into the making of the documentation, etc. It's about 300 and 60 kilometers of track in the entire two-track line. And I said that in the sector, one of the state borders from Botov to Long Selo had obtained documentation. It was done during the former government. That in the sector that includes the Zagreb knot, Zagreb County did everything and in its documentation and brought a spatial plan and drew up a corridor. That the carlovack County did everything and drew up the corridors and part of the paperwork was made. However, in Sector 4 – Rijeka node that includes and part of Sector 3 of the Primorje-Gorski County has not drawn a corridor at all. And what you're going to do is, that's that story we had recently on the Roads Act, if the minister will now say that it's going to be a one-way, two-track track, we're going to build it and the finished thing. It's possible it's going to build like that, but without a spatial plan, nothing will be built. That's a fact. And money and asking for investors' money is another problem. I said here we support this agreement as an expression of the desire to perhaps technical part of the agreement and help to create a certain level of documentation is implemented to this new 5B Corridor but that it will remain a permanent problem that one will have to solve. The finance minister says we're not going to build a new railroad, but we're going to iron out an existing track, and where there's a second track missing in the section that they're proposing from Skradnik to Rijeka, we're going to build a second track and that's going to be our speed track. I also said that this railroad was projected at a level of 160km for passenger transport and about 120km for freight transport. This way we won't get it and it won't be a fast track.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29009	Thank you very much. The last replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29010	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, Boric, no matter what this railroad is called a low-level or valley fact, is that it's not going even though the government's program has been under a great deal of pressure to go as a priority. The fact is, this railroad is in that part of me that I know is in a catastrophic state, in a very bad way. A short time ago, we witnessed both the accident and the consequences. The fact is that my county, therefore from which I come, is definitely disabled in that sense, but it is also a fact and it is necessary to say that our government has begun the reconstruction of the section from the Križevci to Koprivnica with the aim of thus strengthening and increasing security. And look, now that the railway infrastructure is like this, the difficulties are like that two days ago we discussed the same highway, fast road. But the fact is that on the highway that was started that significant objects were made, that a part of the route was made, and now it's going into a fast road and there's no means. The Deputy Minister himself said that certain regulations are needed in order to continue to work, etc. That's exactly what we're afraid of in our Koprivnica-Crysing County. Here's what finally waited for one of our moments to come under these circumstances, that no matter what it was called, we'll still be short-sleeved. And then, of course, the even development of Croatia, which is often said of course not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29011	And the last answer to the last line, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29012	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Milinkovic, I'm glad you said that the former government started working because here they assure us that nothing is working on that track, and I say the low-level track covers four sectors and started working but during more former government. However, you said well that it was written as a great promise of this low-level railway and that it would be done and now it is given up, and I will remind you of the highway of Rijeka-Yellow Lokva i.e. Cross-Yellow Lock. We have a situation there that for a year and a little more days we have a finished stock to the Križišće which will not be operational this summer, because a certain level of problem has surfaced again, and only 70 km of stock has given up because the Prime Minister himself said it is not the priority of this government. Then a minister gave up because he said he couldn't accept it and said it was in Plan 21. So I don't know who will now if he gives up, and this railroad has given up whether or not the current minister will say he's going too because it doesn't say so in Plan 21. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29013	Finally, the word of Deputy Minister of Regional Development and EU funds Mr. Jaksha Puljiz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29014	Here I would like to thank you for your understanding and support for the adoption of this legislative proposal, in fact both legislative proposals, because this will also allow us to use considerable resources from allocation for the 2012 financial year and the first half of 2013, so 47m euros in the field of environmental protection and almost 30m euros in transport. I'd just have to take a brief look at that observation about the projects in the railways. So, as far as EU funds are concerned, as you yourself know in the railways' operational programme, it is precisely a top priority along with investments along the waterways. We expect that exactly 5B Corridor investment will be the main source of EU funds absorption, above all for alocation, I speak for 2013 where we have a total of 450m euros. So, only the Long Village-Kriszevci project weighs about 120m euros. However, it should be noted that the problems we faced in preparing this project for the EU funds were truly exceptional. Therefore, from insufficiently prepared design and technical documentation, in particular with regard to the purchase of land. So you probably know for yourself that the land has not yet been redeemed, that the work is now being done intensively. Over 400 particles were unrepurchased, so in early 2012. However, HZ infrastructure really invests here is what I can freely confirm the maximum effort and this process which has been quite slow and quite blocked now is going extremely quickly. And I think we will be able to be proud of that we will have a project that will be able to withdraw 120m euros at the latest by the end of 2016. The second project is also very important for the Gradec-St. Ivan Frogno where we have the same actually quite prepared project. It is slightly smaller, however, about 30m euros, but it is also very important. There are also projects that concern the surroundings of Zagreb. So, we're talking about the project Subsident-Samobor and we're talking about the project from Zapresic to Zabok. As for 5 b corridors and one more piece of information. So you also mentioned that nothing was done about preparing direction from Zagreb to Rijeka and probably parliamentary representatives were familiar with the fact at the end of the day was a public presentation of two large 15m-euro projects that will finance the production of project technical documentation from Karlovac, Hrvatski Leskovec and to Skradnik respectively. And that's actually creating preconditions, it's this particular work that's then being made possible after large projects. So 15m euros for project technical documentation. I think you'll all agree it's really a very, very serious effort and a very serious approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29015	Thank you, too. We still have two replicas on this exhibit. First respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29016	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here is the fact that I often mention the area where I live, from which I come, that the railway is also mentioned, the second railway line of Long Village-Cross, to mention the Gradec-St. Ivan-Zabno, I must say that for many years we have heard about these projects and about the beginning of the works and what Mr Milinkovic said, it is true that the section of reconstruction of the railway from the Križevci to Koprivnica was started in the previous government's meeting, that it is now and probably at the end. But the fact is that on the Gradec-Sv-Ivan-Zabno track is definitely not happening as was the fact that before it was said that the section of the railway Dugo Selo-Kriježevci will be built by Croatia's entry into the EU because it has been preparing for the use of European funds since the beginning of the project, so we are eager to build something there.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29017	Does the government's representative want to respond? Replication response. Yaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29018	Here's a quick answer. So in addition to this domestic procedure that we have to do to remove all obstacles to the start of implementation, there is also a procedure for negotiations with the European Commission and as far as the Long Village-Crists section is concerned, this negotiation procedure is very close to its conclusion, in fact the process is very well done and there will be no problems. And the competitions, we expect the first competition before 1.7. But the work itself will be after 1.7 this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29019	And the last replica, honourable representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29020	Thank you very much, Deputy. Here I am going to ask you, given what you said, that it is 500m euros that you and your competent minister are affecting the Mayor of the Primorje-Goran County to come up with a spatial plan that a part of these funds would not remain unused and that you resolve that big knot that appears and concerns the completion of that low-level railway on the island of Krk. Is she going to come there or is she not going to come there? Because it's a major challenge not to make a spatial plan because there's one interest and there's another interest. And if you really want to take advantage of what you're saying, that 500 million euros, then it's the beginning of that adoption of the county's spatial plan. Before that, we can't talk about anything if we agree on it. And so I ask you that if you can influence the County of Primorje-goranska to finally bring up a spatial plan because beyond all that, there will be only a story that we have had 500 million euros without doing anything again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29021	And this replica corresponds to Deputy Minister Jaksha Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29022	Our strategy is to just develop enough project proposals, prepared projects so that we can find ourselves in situations where we can decide positively, negatively on some investment solutions that we have enough other projects that we can then use to absorb funds. So this is absolutely our first priority, and as for the completion of Corridor 5 b and the situation on the island of Krk. You know it's very much about the question... terminal. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there are many conditional things and when decisions are made on all this, then, of course, it will be easier to decide on the final corridor, i.e. the end of the track to Krk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29023	Thank you. That concludes the debate on the text of the law. We will vote today in the follow-up of our work. Now I'm setting a break for about 15 minutes. Let's gather here at noon, just before, so we can start voting at noon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-01-0.u29024	Final proposal of the Law confirming the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the multiannual Operational Programme "Transport" for Community Assistance under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance under the "Regional Development" Component in Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 263 The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that, unanimously with 127 votes, the Law on the Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the multiannual Operational Programme "Transport" for Community Assistance under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance under the "Regional Development" in Croatia in the text proposed by the Proposer. Dear colleagues and esteemed colleagues, we have finished the vote. We will now stop by the work of the plenary session and announce a session Tuesday next week that is 5 February this year at 9.30 p.m. with the first item of the agenda of the proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 251. I want to see you orni, and on Monday, I'm asking for a session of the working bodies to be held. Thank you very much.
